
                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            December 22, 2014 Monday

Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey hands out gift cards to crime
victims

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 181 words


LOS ANGELES   Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey joined crime
victims at a downtown Target store today to hand out gift cards and help
brighten their holidays.

The holidays can be a difficult time for victims of crime,  Lacey said.  This
annual tradition allows us to bring hope and joy to these deserving families.

Target donated gift cards for more than 30 children and adults victimized by
crime. Participating families were nominated by members of the District Attorney
s staff.

During the Heroes & Helpers event at City Target, staffers helped children pick
out items from their wish lists.

For 30 years, the Los Angeles County District Attorney s Office has worked to
make the holiday season extra special for children victimized by crime,  Lacey
said.  We are grateful for the opportunity to team with Target in support of
families who have endured heartbreaking circumstances.

The shopping event is part of a larger holiday giving drive which benefits more
than 200 families affected by violent crimes. Each year, the D.A. s office
raises about $25,000 for the effort.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 10, 2014 Thursday

Crime down in Los Angeles, but assaults up in first half of 2014

BYLINE: Larry Altman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 490 words


Crime across the city of Los Angeles was down 5.4 percent during the first half
of 2014, but Police Chief Charlie Beck said officials are closely watching an
increase in aggravated assaults, which can lead to other more serious violence.

Each Los Angeles Police Department bureau   Central, South, West and Valley
showed declines in major crimes overall. Violent crime, however, was up 2.9
percent because of a 12 percent increase in aggravated assaults, many of which
occurred in the San Fernando Valley, Beck said.

Aggravated assaults are precursors to shootings and homicides,  Beck said.  We
are very concerned about this. We are looking at this.

Aggravated assaults include assaults and attempted assaults with weapons, shots
fired and shots fired at inhabited dwellings.

Still, Beck said, shootings were down citywide.

The number of victims, the number of people that have been shot this year in Los
Angeles, is down by over 12 percent, a remarkable reduction,  Beck said.

Overall, the numbers through June 30 compared with the same period last year
reveal:

Gang-related crimes are down 13.1 percent citywide from 2013, and gang-related
homicides are down 5.3 percent from a year earlier.

So far in 2014, two fewer people were victims of homicide that at this point
last year   135 to 133   a drop of 1.5 percent.

Rape was down 1.3 percent, robbery down 5.7 percent, burglary down 14.6 percent,
auto theft down 7 percent and larceny down 4.8 percent.

Violent crime was up 2.9 percent, but property crime was down 7 percent.

The Valley Bureau showed an 8.3 percent drop in crime from 2013 and a 26.5
percent decline since 2008.

Crime in the South Bureau, which includes South Los Angeles and the Harbor Area,
was down 7.1 percent since last year and 21.2 percent since 2008.

Beck said he was particularly proud of the reduction in gang crime, saying
effective policing, gang prevention programs for youth, and re-entry programs to
help gang members released from prison were working.

This city not very long ago was known as the gang capital of the United States,
and also the murder capital of the United States, Beck said.  Over the last five
years, we have reduced gang crime in the city of Los Angeles by 52 percent.

Police for years have campaigned in communities to get residents to lock their
homes and parked cars, and hide expensive items like laptops from plain sight.
People are recognizing this and helping to reduce the number of property crimes,
Beck said.

Mayor Eric Garcetti credited the decline in crime to  smart data-driven
policing,  community policing, summer jobs for youth, nightly park programs for
teens, a focus on prevention, and enforcement. The number of major crimes is at
its lowest since 1956, he said.

Los Angeles continues to be safer in crime per capita than we ve seen since
1949,  he said, expressing appreciation for the police officers who  put their
lives on the line to protect the people of L.A.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Hate crime charges filed in

BYLINE: BY ANNA ILIFF, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 223 words



HIGHLIGHT: City attorney says video shows man tagging business with anti-Semitic
graffiti in April.


The Los Angeles City Attorney's Office have filed hate crime charges, accusing a
man of vandalizing a Van Nuys business with anti-Semitic graffiti last month.

Amos Hason, 49, remained jailed awaiting arragnment later this week in lieu of
$68,000 bond.

"Ideally, the prosecution of this incident is going to send a very strong
message that my office takes incidents of hate crime exceptionally seriously,"
City Attorney Mike Feuer said Monday during a news conference. "We have to
respond immediately when they arise. The message has to be clear that there is
absolutely no tolerance for hate crime in the city of Los Angeles or anywhere
else in our society."

Hason faces three counts of vandalism and three counts of committing a hate
crime against a Jewish plumbing business owner.

Authorities said Hason was identified from two video surveillance tapes recorded
on April 7 and 22, showing him painting swastikas and anti-Semitic phrases,
including "Adolf was right, Kill Jews!" on a fence and dumpster behind the
business.

Officials said they don't know whether Hason has a prior relationship with the
owner of the business or is linked to any neo-Nazi groups.

When police arrested Hason this weekend, they said they found a weapon. The
District Attorney's Office is evaluating the weapons case, Feuer said.



ailiff@losangelesregister.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            January 19, 2014 Sunday

Former NFL star Sharper arrested in Los Angeles;
LAPD: Former NFL star Sharper arrested on suspicion of rape; suspended by NFL
Network

SECTION: C; Pg.4

LENGTH: 225  words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Former NFL star defensive back Darren Sharper has been
arrested on suspicion of rape, the Los Angeles Police Department said.

Sharper, who played 14 seasons in the NFL with Green Bay, Minnesota and New
Orleans, was arrested and booked Friday and released on $200,000 bail just
before midnight. He faces a Feb. 14 court appearance.

LAPD said it is investigating Sharper in connection with two sexual assaults
that occurred in October and earlier this month in the West Los Angeles area.

New Orleans Police Department spokeswoman Remi Braden said Saturday in a
statement that NOPD is also investigating an allegation of sexual assault filed
against Sharper on Sept. 24.

Sharper, 38, played in the NFL from 1997-2010, mostly with the Packers. He
retired after the 2010 season.

Sharper was selected All-Pro six times and chosen for the Pro Bowl five times.
He played in two Super Bowls, one with the Packers as a rookie and a second with
the Saints after the 2009 season.

He has been working as an analyst for the NFL Network.

"Darren has been suspended without pay until further notice, effective
immediately," said Alex Riethmiller, spokesman for NFL Network, in an email
Saturday.

JETS: The Jets have retained several members of coach Rex Ryan's staff,
including offensive coordinator Marty Mornhinweg and defensive coordinator
Dennis Thurman.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Ex-Los Angeles County sheriff s deputy pleads not guilty to child porn charges

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 194 words


LOS ANGELES >> A Santa Fe Springs resident and former Los Angeles County Sheriff
s deputy pleaded not guilty Wednesday to distributing and possessing child
pornography.

Lorne Reed, 32, was arraigned at Los Angeles Superior Court. He will be back in
court Oct. 6 to set a date for his preliminary hearing, said Ricardo Santiago, a
public information officer with the District Attorney s Office.

Prosecutors last week filed one felony count of sending or bringing obscene
matter into the state for sale and one felony count of possession of child
pornography against Reed. If convicted of all the charges, Reed faces up to five
years, eight months in prison.

According to the criminal complaint, he allegedly shared child porn online on or
about April 4,

Reed was arrested Aug. 20 by the Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against
Children taskforce which also served a search warrant at his home.

Greg Risling, spokesman for the District Attorney s Office, said more than 45
child pornography files were found on Reed s laptop computer.

Reed joined the Sheriff s Department in 2007 and resigned in February 2013 from
the court services division, sheriff s officials said.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday

Hedding Law Firm Offers its Services as the Criminal Defense Attorney

LENGTH: 455  words


A defense criminal lawyer plays a substantial role towards providing a person
charged for criminal offenses with a fair chance of hearing. The Hedding Law
Firm has been involved in the field of criminal defense for more than twenty
five years and their records speak for themselves. Ronald Hedding is regarded
amongst the top criminal defense attorney in Los Angeles as it has won several
jury trials for his clients over the past years. He is the founder of the
Hedding Law Firm with huge experience in the field of criminal law. Apart from
Los Angeles, he has also travelled to different corners of the country defending
his clients to protect their freedom, reputation and interests.
The firm headed by Mr. Hedding promises to represent its clients with highest
professional standards and fight for their reputation and freedom to the best
possible extent.

Drug crimes are quite common in the US and people get prosecuted for possession
or sell of narcotics. The Hedding Law Firm has some of the most recognized and
reputed drug crime lawyer in Los Angeles and well aware of what it takes to
handle narcotics cases in an efficient and professional manner. Clients are
always encouraged to call them and discuss their cases with them under full
confidentiality. The attorneys discuss every aspect of the case in detail with
their clients before coming up with a strategy to win back the freedom of their
clients.
The law firm deals with different types of criminal cases with their expert and
knowledgeable attorneys always willing to provide satisfactory results for the
clients. Some of the criminal areas of expertise for the firm include drug
crimes, domestic violence, Hit & Run, DUI, sex crimes, juvenile crimes, violent
crimes, theft crimes and more. Hiring experienced, well reputed and
knowledgeable personnel is the advice to follow when searching for a lawyer and
the Hedding Law Firm certainly fulfils all these requirements with any hint of
doubt.
The Hedding Law Firm is dedicated towards providing all its clients with top
rated Los Angeles criminal defense attorney so that their cases are handles with
the much attention and care. The local attorneys of the firm have the legal know
how and experience to help their clients amidst the worst of situations and get
them out of the different legal troubles. The law firm provides legal
representation for its clients throughout Sylmar, San Fernando Valley, Van Nuys
and other areas. Over the years, the firm has provided clients with highly apt
and knowledgeable attorneys for convictions with felony and misdemeanour
offenses. Nationwide federal cases are handled by the Hedding Law Firm with
thorough professionalism and efficiency.© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: David Bowdich Named Assistant Director in Charge of FBI Los Angeles

LENGTH: 510  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Federal Bureau of Investigation, The Government of USA has issued the
following news release:

Director James B. Comey has named David Bowdich the assistant director in charge
of the Los Angeles Field Office. Since September 2012, Mr. Bowdich has served as
special agent in charge (SAC) of the Los Angeles Field Office's Counterterrorism
Division. In that role he led the Joint Terrorism Task Force, responsible for
all counterterrorism investigations and operations in the Los Angeles region and
surrounding counties, as well as overseas investigations in Southeast Asia. As
SAC, Mr. Bowdich was also in charge of all Los Angeles Crisis Response assets.

Mr. Bowdich began his career as a special agent in 1995 and was assigned to the
San Diego Field Office, where he investigated violent crimes and gangs and
served as a SWAT team member and sniper. He led a yearlong wiretap investigation
that culminated in the first federal racketeering convictions ever to be brought
against street gang members in the Southern District of California.

In 2003, Mr. Bowdich was promoted to FBI Headquarters, where he served in the
Safe Streets and Gang Unit. In late 2005, Mr. Bowdich returned to San Diego and
supervised a multi-agency gang task force. In this role, he led agents and
detectives who investigated racketeering and drug cases against the Mexican
Mafia, Bloods, Crips, and the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club using wiretaps and
undercover operations.

Mr. Bowdich was selected as the assistant special agent in charge of the San
Diego Field Office in 2009. In this role, he oversaw all non-white-collar
criminal violations and the Imperial County Resident Agency. He recognized an
emerging kidnapping trend perpetrated by Mexican cartel-related criminal
enterprises. In response, Mr. Bowdich formalized and initiated the first FBI
hybrid squad in the country designed to target the threat posed by the
kidnapping cells operating on both sides of the United States and Mexican
border. Within one year, the interagency squad constructed a large-scale RICO
case against 43 cartel members and associates who operated multiple kidnapping
cells in the San Diego region. During this assignment, Mr. Bowdich also oversaw
the murder investigations of two United States Border Patrol agents who were
killed in the line of duty.

In 2011, Mr. Bowdich was selected to handle the transition of a new FBI Director
given that Director Mueller's 10-year term expired in September 2011. After
Director Mueller received a two-year extension, Mr. Bowdich was named as the
special assistant to the associate deputy director.

Before joining the FBI, Mr. Bowdich served as a police officer and detective
with the Albuquerque Police Department. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree
in criminal justice from New Mexico State University and a Master's Degree in
leadership from Georgetown University's McDonough School of Business. Mr.
Bowdich is married and has two children.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday

Hedding Law Firm Offers its Services as a Criminal Defense Attorney

LENGTH: 468  words


Hedding Law Firm has always been known for handling thousands of criminal cases
over the years- from white collar cases to murder to DUI, along with high
profile Federal cases all over the nation. Based in San Fernando Valley, the
firm is quite familiar with the systems of San Fernando Court, Sylmar Court, Van
Nuys Court and LA Federal and State Court. The criminal defense attorneys of
this firm primarily focus on defending their clients in courts spread across Los
Angeles county and San Fernando Valley, including Glendale, Hidden Hills,
Burbank, Sylmar, Woodland Hills, Van Nuys, Calabasas, Sherman Oaks, Mission
Hills, Canoga Park, Reseda, Encino, Winnetka, Chatsworth, Pacoima, and North
Hollywood.
With years of experience in handling a range of criminal offences, Hedding Law
Firm has established a strong reputation with federal and state prosecutors as
well as judges. They are successful in defending misdemeanors and felonies which
includes drug crimes, DUI, domestic violence, juvenile crimes, theft crimes,
weapons charges, white collar crimes, violent crimes, sex crimes and probation
violations.
Ronald D. Hedding is one of Hedding Law Firm's founding members, with an
extensive legal background in the subject of Criminal law.

This drug crime lawyer in Los Angeles has worked for a Superior Court Judge, the
DA's office and as the driving force behind Hedding Law Firm. What sets him
apart from the rest of Southern California's topmost defense attorneys is his
all- round experience.
After setting up the firm, this Los Angeles Criminal Defense Attorney dedicated
himself in the pursuit of passionately defending the clients to the topmost
levels. Hedding has travelled all over the nation to defend his clients, protect
their interests, freedom, and reputation. He has the dual ability to fight a
case successfully by staying within the system and the skills to negotiate
favorable disposition for the clients.
He has acted as the lead counsel in a number of sensational criminal cases this
county has ever seen. This Criminal Defense Attorney in Los Angeles has received
widespread acclaim in national publications, newspapers and on radio. Hedding,
along with the firm has dedicated in assembling the best team of lawyers this
state has to offer. With a combined experience of over 50 years, the legal
strives in presenting each of their clients with affordable and reliable legal
counsel.
Now if an individual or someone close to him/ her is indicted with a criminal
offence, then the best advice to follow when searching for a lawyer is to
contact Hedding Law Firm immediately and directly speak to any one of their many
experienced criminal defense lawyers to discuss the right course of action. The
services of the firm are available 24*7, and come with no consultation charges.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
                  DONOR: Los Angeles Police Protective League


                          LAST UPDATED: July 29, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000 - 9,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Police Protective League
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
             DONOR: Los Angeles Police Command Officers Association


                          LAST UPDATED: July 29, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000 - 24,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Police Command Officers Association
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
                 DONOR: Los Angeles Police Federal Credit Union


                          LAST UPDATED: July 29, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000 - 24,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Police Federal Credit Union
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
              DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association-Labor and
                             Employment Law Section


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 3,500 - 7,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association-Labor and Employment Law Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
              DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association Barristers


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000 - 9,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association Barristers
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              26 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
          DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association-Litigation Section


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500 - 3,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association-Litigation Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
             DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association Business and
                            Corporations Law Section


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000 - 4,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association Business and Corporations Law Section

DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday

Wi-Fi hotspot name delays flight

SECTION: WIRE; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 132 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - A passenger aboard a plane at Los Angeles International
Airport picked up a Wi-Fi hotspot named after a terrorist group, but authorities
who held travelers for hours as they investigated say no crime was committed.

The passenger on the American Airlines flight from Los Angeles to London alerted
crew members about the network Sunday night, and the plane returned to the gate.

The hotspot was called "Al-Quida Free Terror Nettwork" and that passengers were
kept onboard for several hours amid the investigation.

Los Angeles airport police said Monday that "no crime was committed and no
further action will be taken."

Federal authorities who took over the investigation had nothing add Monday
morning.

An American Airlines spokesman says the flight was rescheduled for 1 p.m.
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2014 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 15, 2014 Saturday

Smartphone App Lets Users Join Fight Against Hate Crimes

LENGTH: 260  words


Law enforcement officials and community leaders introduced a smartphone app
Friday that allows users to capture and report hate incidents.


Los Angeles Superior Court Judge David Wesley and Los Angeles Deputy Police
Chief Michael Downing were on hand at the Museum of Tolerance to announce the
release of the new CombatHate app available for Android and iPhone users.
Designed by the Simon Wiesenthal Center, CombatHate provides users with the
capability to instantly- and confidentially - report a hate crime, hate incident
or online hate to the human rights organization.
KNX 1070's Margaret Carrero reports Rabbi Abraham Cooper with the Simon
Wiesenthal Center wants to make it easier to rally young people against all
types of incidents of hate, be it graffiti, speech or bullying.
"We need you now on the front lines," Cooper said. "You're the main target of
the hate and the bullying."
16-year-old Keileene Kasahara said just last month she was bullied about being
the only Asian in her class - a reality that she hopes will provide a sense of
what teens face everyday.
"More apps like this should be out there so we all have a perspective on what's
going on and no one's ever alone," Kasahara said.
Wesley has previously collaborated with the Museum of Tolerance to extend the
Los Angeles Superior Court's decades-old Teen Court through the Stopping Hate
And Delinquency by Empowering Students (SHADES) program, which helps combat hate
incidents and hate crimes on Los Angeles County's middle-, junior-, and
high-school campuses, according to Weisenthal officials.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
            DONOR: Official Police Garage Association of Los Angeles


                          LAST UPDATED: July 29, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000 - 24,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Official Police Garage Association of Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
          DONOR: Los Angeles Cotillion Charitable Trust / Los Angeles
                             Chapter The Links, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: November 26, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
TAXCODE:  95-3943493
URL:  http://hbcfl.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90010
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Cotillion Charitable Trust / Los Angeles Chapter The Links,
Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                              April 4, 2014 Friday

Rapper charged with drug possession in Los Angeles;
Grammy-nominated rapper 2 Chainz charged with felony possession of codeine in
Los Angeles

SECTION: A; Pg.3

LENGTH: 132  words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Prosecutors have charged Grammy-nominated rapper 2 Chainz
with felony drug possession after his arrest last year at Los Angeles
International Airport.

The 36-year-old entertainer, whose real name is Tauheed Epps, is scheduled to be
arraigned Tuesday on a felony charge of codeine possession.

The rapper was arrested in June after airport officials reported finding
ingredients for the cough syrup-based concoction known as "sizzurp" in his
checked baggage.

Publicist Sarah Cunningham said the rapper had no comment.

The Atlanta-area native is best known for his hits "Birthday Song," ''I'm
Different" and "Feds Watching," as well as collaborations with some of rap's
biggest names, including Nicki Minaj and Kanye West.

The case was first reported by celebrity web site TMZ.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            September 1, 2014 Monday

Los Angeles DUI Lawyers Farar Criminal Defense Announce New Complimentary
Consultation

LENGTH: 110  words


Farar & Lewis LLP, the premier Los Angeles criminal defense law firm, is pleased
to announce it's new complimentary consultation towards Los Angeles DUI crimes.
Those accused of a DUI crime may not be at fault, but are still being accused.
Family members of those accused of a DUI crime, are encouraged to visit
http://www.fararcriminaldefense.com in order to learn more.
Individuals accused of a DUI crime can get a risk free consultation with Steve
Sitkoff, a former District Attorney, at Farar & lewis LLP.
This complimentary consultation can be used towards a consultation over the
phone, or in person, at Farar & Lewis LLP's office.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Former sheriff s deputy arrested in Santa Fe Springs for distributing child
pornography

BYLINE: Jason Henry

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197 words


The Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children taskforce arrested a
former sheriff s deputy at his Santa Fe Springs home Wednesday for allegedly
sharing child pornography over the internet.

Officers from the taskforce took Lorne Reed, 32, of Santa Fe Springs, into
custody for distribution of child pornography after searching his home following
a five month investigation. Detectives began looking into Reed in April after a
proactive search discovered some of the material he was allegedly sharing.

Reed was with his two children at the time of the search, according to the Los
Angeles Police Department.

The Department of Children and Family Services took the two children into
protective custody.

Reed is being held at the Metropolitan Jail Division and his bail was set at
$20,000.

The Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children taskforce is made up
of 62 federal and local agencies including Homeland Security and the Whittier
Police Department.

Anyone with information about the inappropriate touching of a child or child
pornography should contact their local law enforcement agency or call the
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children at 800-843-5678.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            December 2, 2014 Tuesday

Controversial Proposition 47 effects being felt in Long Beach, L.A. County

BYLINE: Greg Yee

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 817 words


A controversial ballot measure voters approved in early November is beginning to
reshape the criminal justice system throughout Los Angeles County.

Proposition 47 , which supporters presented as a way to ease inmate overcrowding
and save tax dollars, reclassifies certain types of felonies as misdemeanors
unless the defendant has prior convictions for violent and serious crimes.

Critics, however, fear the proposition will release felons back onto the streets
and place an additional burden on the criminal justice system.

Long Beach City Prosecutor Doug Haubert said the compound effects of Proposition
47 and AB 109   the prison realignment bill passed in 2011 to ease overcrowding
in the state s prisons    is reaching the point of absurdity.

While he doesn t believe that locking up criminals is the most effective way to
reduce crime or that a long jail sentence will deter criminals from committing
crimes, he said the new law will only increase costs for police and prosecutors
as cases are shifted from district attorney s office to city attorneys and city
prosecutors.

The D.A. s prosecutors traditionally handle serious and violent crimes, while
city-level prosecutors pursue lesser offenses, such as littering and overnight
camping in parks.  I anticipate that (the proposition) will increase our case
load by about 15 percent,  Haubert said.  (Those cases) will represent the most
habitual and violent offenders.

Proposition 47 reclassifies from felonies to misdemeanors certain types of drug
possession, petty theft, receiving stolen property and forging or writing bad
checks if the amount is $950 or less. A misdemeanor sentence for these offenses
is not allowed if the person has a previous conviction for serious crimes such
as rape, murder or child molestation, or is a registered sex offender.

It will also work retroactively, whereby anyone currently serving a prison
sentence for any of the applicable offenses may get their convictions reduced to
misdemeanors. In addition, certain offenders who have already completed a
sentence for one of those felonies may apply to have their convictions amended.

Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey said she and her staff have
been diligently preparing for the proposition s rollout, putting together a task
force, which estimated some 4,000 pending, open or in-progress cases would be
reclassified from felonies to misdemeanors.

Long Beach and (the city of Los Angeles) had the bulk of these cases,  she said.

To ease the handoff of cases to city attorneys and city prosecutors, Lacey said
her plan allows her prosecutors to be cross-designated as city-level prosecutors
through Jan. 31 in Los Angeles, Long Beach, Inglewood and Hawthorne.

Because about a third of California s prison population originates in L.A.
County, this could mean about 2,500 cases may be reviewed for reclassification
in addition to pending cases and those in progress, Lacey said.

It s nail-biting time,  she said.  We re doing everything we can to ensure the
new law is implemented. We re ready.

While any savings from decreased costs are supposed to be reallocated for school
truancy and dropout prevention programs, mental health and substance abuse
treatment and victim services, Lacey is cautiously optimistic.  We in L.A.
County need the (money), but until I see (the funds) ... I certainly hope it
works,  she said.

County courthouses also began making contingency plans before the November
election, said Michael Vicencia, presiding judge at the Gov. George Deukmejian
Courthouse in Long Beach, noting priority is given to pending cases that have
been reclassified from felonies to misdemeanors.

It could take three to six months to wade through the pending matters,  Vicencia
said.  We re shifting resources. Misdemeanor courts are typically our busiest.

After pending cases are heard, the court will move on to reviewing cases of
current inmates and those who have already completed their prison sentences.

City court officials are working in tandem with Lacey so that enough resources
are available to address the influx of misdemeanor cases, Vicencia said.

The process, however, presents a particular difficulty in the face of years of
staff and budget cuts, said Haubert, adding he has seen his staff of deputy
prosecutors cut by a third.  Additional cases are likely to stretch our
resources even further than they should be stretched,  he said.

Ultimately, Haubert fears that the proposition will result in the same criminals
moving in and out of the system repeatedly.  I would like to see more
alternative sentencing programs for those with mental illness, but there needs
to be some consequences for violent or habitual criminals,  he said.  I need to
take a wait-and-see approach and see if society realizes the benefits (that have
been promised). We all have to hope and pray that (it) accomplishes even a part
of what it was introduced to do.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                            April 24, 2014 Thursday

Los Angeles judge refuses to release Chris Brown;
Los Angeles judge refuses to grant bail or release for singer Chris Brown as he
awaits trial

SECTION: A; Pg.3

LENGTH: 138  words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - A judge in Los Angeles has denied a request to release R&B
singer Chris Brown from custody while he awaits trial on an assault charge in
Washington, D.C.

Superior Court Judge Victor Greenberg denied a request Wednesday by Brown's
lawyer to release the Grammy-winner from custody either on bail or his own
recognizance. The singer has been jailed since mid-March on a no-bail warrant
after he was expelled from a court-ordered rehab program.

Brown's bodyguard has been convicted of assaulting a man in Washington, and
Brown's trial has been delayed until at least June. He remains under court
supervision in Los Angeles for his 2009 attack on then-girlfriend Rihanna.

The singer's attorney, Bob Kalunian, requested Brown's release, but Greenberg
said there was no change in circumstances that warrants his release.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           December 11, 2014 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

IN BRIEF

BYLINE: From wire reports<br>

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 304 words


POLICE RAIDS NAB 28 GANG SUSPECTS

LOS ANGELES - More than two dozen suspected members of a gang that terrorized a
housing project for a half-century and controlled drug dealing in an East Los
Angeles neighborhood were arrested Wednesday on charges related to a federal
racketeering indictment.

The indictment named 38 members of the Big Hazard gang with ties to the Mexican
Mafia who authorities say are linked to crimes ranging from drug dealing to
extortion to murder.

"For the last two decades, my office has been fighting the influence of the
Mexican Mafia both in prison facilities and on the streets of Southern
California," Acting U.S. Attorney Stephanie Yonekura said at a news conference.
"The indictment unsealed today is the latest salvo in that battle."

The Mexican Mafia is a powerful collection of prison inmates from various Latino
gangs who call shots on violence behind bars and drug dealing and street crime.

The FBI and Los Angeles police led early morning raids at more than a dozen
homes. They nabbed 24 of those named in the indictment, along with four others
charged with crimes related to the gang.

Seven people, including the gang's leader, were already in custody. One
defendant was killed in a shooting over the weekend.

MAN RESCUED AT SEA TO REUNITE WITH SON

HONOLULU - The estranged son of a 67-year-old Hawaii fisherman rescued after 12
days at sea said the ordeal is leading him to reunite with the father he hasn't
spoken to since the 1990s.

The father, Ron Ingraham, arrived Wednesday to the Hawaii island of Molokai,
where he lives on his boat. He was found dehydrated and hungry Tuesday after
going missing on Thanksgiving, when the Coast Guard picked up his mayday call
saying his boat was in danger of sinking.

Zakary Ingraham said he's making arrangements to travel to Hawaii.

TYPE: Briefs

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                              July 18, 2014 Friday

23 charged in South L.A. federal gang investigation

BYLINE: BY ALYSSA DURANTY, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 255 words



HIGHLIGHT: The 30-month probe targets gun and drug crimes among Rollin' 30s
Harlem Crips.


Twenty-three people accused of being members of a South Los Angeles gang were
charged with drug and gun crimes Thursday as part of a 30-month federal
investigation.

Operation "Thumbs Down" - named because of the gang sign used by members to form
an "H" with two upward-facing thumbs, representing Harlem - targeted suspected
members of the Rollin' 30s Harlem Crips, a gang notorious for drug trafficking.

Thirteen men were arrested Thursday, four men were in custody on unrelated
charges and six are fugitives. Their charges include possession of crack
cocaine, intent to distribute drugs, conspiracy and a felon in possession of a
fire arm.

Los Angeles Police Department officials said the Rollin' 30s Harlem Crips are
responsible for at least 29 homicides, 1,100 robberies and 1,000 assaults in the
1.5-square-mile territory between Jefferson Avenue, Martin Luther King Avenue,
Normandie Avenue and Crenshaw Avenue.

Since the federal operation started in 2011, nearly 100 accused members or
associates of the gang have been charged with a variety of weapons and narcotics
violations.

The Los Angeles City Attorney's Office also filed three nuisance abatement
lawsuits against properties supposedly controlled by the gang.

Authorities said the arrested men were expected to be arraigned Thursday
afternoon and the accused gang members already in custody will be transferred to
federal custody.

Depending on individual criminal history and quantities of drugs found in
possession, each person faces a minimum five-year federal sentence.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Court to rule on registry searches;
L.A. fights for law giving police access to hotel lists

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 437 words


The Supreme Court in recent years has restricted the ability of police to search
cellphones, to attach GPS devices to cars, and to bring drug-sniffing dogs to
your doorstep. Now it will rule on the privacy rights of something more mundane
but potentially incriminating: a hotel guest registry.

The justices agreed Monday to hear the city of Los Angeles' challenge to a
federal appeals court decision that struck down a law giving police unrestricted
access to hotel and motel registries.

The city had used the ordinance to investigate crimes such as drug-dealing and
prostitution, and it had been upheld by a federal district court and an appeals
court panel. The full U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit, one of the
nation's more liberal appellate courts, declared the law unconstitutional last
December.

The high court, which will hear the case early next year, has been generally
protective of 4th Amendment privacy rights. In the most recent case involving
police searches, the justices ruled 9-0 in an opinion written by Chief Justice
John Roberts that police must get a warrant before searching a suspect's
cellphone.

In the Los Angeles case, the question is whether police must first submit their
request to a judge before rifling through a hotel or motel guest registry.
Several other cities with laws similar to Los Angeles' will watch the case
closely, including Atlanta, Denver, Las Vegas, Minneapolis, St. Louis, San
Diego, San Francisco and Seattle.

"These laws expressly help police investigate crimes such as prostitution and
gambling, capture dangerous fugitives and even authorize federal law enforcement
to examine these registers, an authorization which can be vital in the immediate
aftermath of a homeland terrorist attack," Los Angeles argued in its brief
urging the justices to hear its challenge.

In response, the motel owners who brought the case argued that police need not
search their registries without a warrant because "there is no evidence that the
books are being cooked."

The city responded that since the appeals court struck down the law, the crime
rate at five sample "parking-meter motels" has increased 82%. The nickname
refers to motels used for short stays.

"The ubiquitous motel inspection regulations reach every nook and cranny of the
nation," its brief said.

Beyond those regulations, the brief said, the court's resolution of the case
could affect any law that implicates the 4th Amendment.

---

CRIME CLAIM

82%

The increase in crime at motels reported by the city of Los Angeles since an
appeals court struck down a law giving police unrestricted access to hotel and
motel registries.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2014 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              June 13, 2014 Friday

San Fernando Valley residents turn out to support LAPD Chief Charlie Beck at
town hall meeting

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 783 words


WINNETKA >> Under his watch, violent crime across Los Angeles has dropped,
complaints against police have plummeted and police now respond to calls 30
seconds sooner.

Police Chief Charlie Beck has asked for another five-year term. And at an L.A.
Police Commission hearing in Winnetka on Thursday evening to review his term,
many residents declared he should get it.

I ve been all around the world, and I can tell you L.A. is great. And the work
under Chief Beck ... is working,  Charles Nava  Skip  Wrightson, an outreach
worker at the Guadalupe Community Center in Canoga Park, told the police
commission.  We re a partnership   and it s working. I applaud you.

It s not just words, folks. It s actions. And that s what it s all about.

The city s second community input meeting was among numerous Police Commission
hearings to be held throughout the summer on whether Beck should keep his job.
After listening to comments about his performance, commission members will make
a decision by Aug. 20.

The packed town hall meeting at A.G.B.U. Manoogian-Demirdjian School was
attended by several hundred people, including dozens of uniformed officers.

They came to praise the four-star chief for a community partnership to cut
crime. Or they came to address persistent crime in their neighborhoods,
including home burglaries, drug dealing and scofflaw drivers, noisy trucks and
graffiti.

We re happy to be out here,  said Steve Soboroff, president of the commission.
I m a local boy, from Taft (High School). And it s great. We are here to listen.
It s meaningful to us.

Beck, a 37-year Los Angeles Police Department veteran with a son and daughter
serving in the LAPD, replaced Chief William Bratton in November 2009 while the
LAPD was still under a federal consent decree that arose largely out of the
Rampart corruption scandal.

During his term, the 60-year-old chief pushed the final reforms needed to end
federal oversight.

He has also waged a strong battle against crime, while working under dire budget
constraints during the recession.

Reduced gang crime

While crime in Los Angeles has decreased each year for 11 years, Beck has cut
gang-related crime in half. In addition, between 2008 and 2013, the number of
serious and violent crimes from robbery to murder dropped 19 percent, from
127,324 to 100,521.

During the same period, the number of citizens complaints against Los Angeles
police officers fell 40 percent, from 5,899 to 3,543.

Meanwhile, the average police response time quickened from 6.2 minutes to 5.9
minutes, about a 5 percent improvement.

In the San Fernando Valley, crime in the past year fell 9.8 percent, the largest
drop of anywhere in the city, police commanders reported Thursday. In the
Topanga Division, it dropped 12.8 percent, with 300 fewer crime victims.

I m very proud to be the chief of police,  Beck said.  Public trust is what
makes this department great; without public trust, we could not succeed. And
that s what this hearing is about.

And hear he did. One by one, roughly two dozen residents strode up to a
microphone. Most supported Beck and his uniformed rank and file. Others focused
on the need to address certain crimes. Or a lack of apparent police presence in
their neighborhoods.

I ve been robbed twice while I was at work, so I m afraid of this neighborhood,
said Sue Basowski of Winnetka, who can recall a day when it was safe for her
kids to go out and play.  I m thinking of moving elsewhere.

Others spoke of worsening traffic, and the anarchy that can be caused by
motorists who drive at unsafe speeds, blow through stop signs and make illegal
U-turns across the West Valley.

At any one time in the San Fernando Valley, there are only six or seven
motorcycle cops,  said Dr. Paul Milberg, a 58-year-old plastic surgeon who has
repaired the faces of victims caused by accidents.  I can t believe how poorly
it s patrolled.

(But) I think Charlie Beck is great,  added the Los Angeles native.  In my
lifetime ... (he s) the best we ve ever had.

If there has been any general criticism of the Long Beach native who replaced
the charismatic predecessor from Boston, it s been over officer discipline
that he s been too soft on a few errant officers.

Under his command, eight Los Angeles officers returned to patrol after firing
more than 100 rounds at two women delivering newspapers during the Christopher
Dorner manhunt.

The chief also nixed a city disciplinary panel s recommendation to fire one
officer caught lying to investigators about using a racial slur. Beck opted for
temporary suspension. Both the officer s father and uncle served in the LAPD,
raising questions about favored treatment.

These concerns, however, were not addressed at the hearing.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             April 28, 2014 Monday

Man accused of nearly 60 Los Angeles County robberies arrested

BYLINE: Greg Yee

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 311 words


The Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department announced Monday that they arrested
a man dubbed the Plaid Shirt Bandit who they believe committed nearly 60
robberies between 2012 and 2013.

Deputies from the Major Crimes Bureau arrested Jermaine D. Shepherd, 37, in
Bakersfield in February, nearly a year after the final robbery in a string that
lasted from April 2012 to June 2013. Shepherd robbed gas stations and fast food
stores across the county from Long Beach to Pasadena, according to a Sheriff s
deparment release announcing the arrest.

The suspect earned the Plaid Shirt Bandit moniker because surveillance images
during the robberies often showed a man wearing a plaid shirt and a baseball
cap. He was also dubbed  The Midnight Bandit  and during some armed robberies he
would make the victim lie on the ground before fleeing.

The robberies stopped after the sheriff s department released pictures of the
suspect in an attempt to identify him.

During searches of Shepherd s belongings, investigators found shirts similar to
ones used in the robberies.

Detectives from the Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department s Major Crimes
Bureau followed a number of clues, including the suspect s  unusual gait,  which
led them to Bakersfield.

The district attorney s office originally filed five counts of armed robbery and
two counts of assault with a deadly weapon against Shepherd. An additional 26
counts were filed after his arrest.

Detectivess plan to seek an additional eight counts of robbery against Shepherd
for crimes committed in Orange County.

Shepherd is being held on a $2.4 million bond. A preliminary hearing is set for
June 20 in Pomona.

Anyone with additional information is encouraged to call the Los Angeles County
Sheriff s Department Major Crimes Bureau at 562-946-7893, Detectives Lorenz or
Cabral, or email mcbtips@lasd.org Anonymous calls are welcomed.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                            April 19, 2014 Saturday

Brown pardons 63 on Good Friday

BYLINE: BY DAVID MONTERO, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A

LENGTH: 317 words


Convictions in Los Angeles and Orange County courts, most for drug-related
crimes, accounted for more than a fourth of the 63 pardons granted by Gov. Jerry
Brown on Good Friday.

Eleven were pardoned from convictions in Los Angeles County courts, some of
which dated back to the early 1980s. Orange County followed with six of the
total pardons issued.

Two of the more serious convictions in Los Angeles included a woman sentenced
for armed robbery in 1982 and a man sent to jail for assault with a deadly
weapon in 1979.

In the robbery case, a Los Angeles woman served eight months in prison and three
years probation after she and a friend were convicted of stealing a purse at
gunpoint. After completing probation, she proved to the courts that she had
"lived an honest and upright life," Brown's office said.

Brown makes all pardon decisions, a spokesman said.

In California, applicants generally are not considered for a pardon unless they
are 10 years removed from probation or parole and haven't been engaged in any
subsequent criminal activity. They also must petition the court where they live
to obtain a Certificate of Rehabilitation. The court then might require the
district attorney to investigate the individual and schedule a hearing on
whether a certificate should be granted. If it is, the application is sent to
the governor's office.

A Fresno man convicted of burglary and stolen property in 1998 who served two
years in prison and three years on parole was lauded for earning a bachelor's
degree in industrial technology. An Orange man, convicted of burglary, served a
year in jail and three years probation beginning in 1994, and later served in
the Marine Corps, receiving an honorable discharge.

The pardons granted Friday span several decades. The oldest is connected to a
1959 sentencing for auto theft in Santa Clara County, and the most recent to a
2000 drug conviction in Butte County.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday

5,300 high-achieving students receive honors at Cal State L.A.

LENGTH: 386  words

DATELINE: Los Angeles,


State University Drive, Los Angeles has issued the following news release:

Elizabeth Devine, co-producer of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, will return to
her alma mater Friday, April 25, to deliver the keynote at Cal State L.A.'s 53rd
annual Honors Convocation.

With formal pageantry, Honors Convocation--which takes place 7 p.m. in the
Eagles Nest Gym--will recognize stellar academic achievements of more than 5,300
Cal State L.A. students. Dean's List honorees, recipients of scholarships and
grants, and Honors College participants will be acknowledged. More than 590 new
freshmen will also be recognized for bringing to the University a 3.5
grade-point-average (or higher) on their high school records. In 2013, more than
1,500 Cal State L.A. students received scholarships supported by donors and
grants from outside agencies.

Devine--who earned her master's degree in criminalistics at Cal State L.A.--has
more than 10 years of experience in crime scene investigation, having served as
a supervising criminalist, head of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department
crime scene program and co-supervisor of the DNA unit.

In 2000, Devine started a part-time job working as a technical adviser on the
television show, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation while still employed by the
Sheriff's Department. She eventually retired and joined CSI as a full-time
writer. She was a co-nominee for a Writers' Guild Award for her episode of
"Blood Drops." In addition to being a writer and story editor, she also served
as producer for CSI and co-executive producer of CSI: Miami. In 2004, as one of
the CSI producers, she was nominated for the Emmy Award in the Outstanding Drama
Series category.

At Cal State L.A., Devine serves on the advisory board of the California
Forensic Science Institute. At her suggestion, a CSI Endowment Fund for Cal
State L.A. was established in order to provide career development training,
public policy and education in the areas of forensics. She was honored as Cal
State L.A.'s Distinguished Alumna in 2006.

For campus map, parking information or directions, go to
http://www.calstatela.edu/univ/maps/cslamap.php. For further details on the
University's Honors Convocation, call Cal State L.A.'s Academic Affairs office
at (323) 343-3808.

For more information please visit: http://www.calstatela.edu

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
          DONOR: The Elks of Los Angeles Foundation / Los Angeles Lee
                               Linden Foundation


                          LAST UPDATED: March 30, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000 - 19,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Elks of Los Angeles Foundation / Los Angeles Lee Linden Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

'Shield' actor Jace charged in wife's death;
'Shield' actor Michael Jace charged with homicide after wife found shot to death
in their home

SECTION: A; Pg.2

LENGTH: 118  words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Authorities say actor Michael Jace is charged with homicide
after his wife was found shot to death in their home.

The Los Angeles Times reports (http://lat.ms/1jQAKlU ) that city police arrived
at the couple's home in the Hyde Park neighborhood around 8:30 p.m. Monday and
that 40-year-old April Jace was found dead inside.

Detective Eric Crosson tells the newspaper that Michael Jace was taken into
custody Monday night and arrested on a homicide charge later. Jace was in
custody and unavailable for comment.

The 50-year-old Jace played a police officer in the TV series "The Shield" and
had roles in "Forrest Gump" and "Planet of the Apes." The couple were married
nine years and have children.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Chinese USC grad student found dead after attack

BYLINE: CINDY LIU in Los Angeles

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 854 words


A 24-year-old Chinese graduate student at USC was found dead at his off-campus
apartment after being attacked by at least three men as he was walking home from
a study group, police said.

Police said they were called at about 7 am on Thursday to an apartment in the
1200 block of 30th Street where they discovered the body of Xinran Ji.

Ji was assaulted with a blunt object around 12:45 am on Thursday a few blocks
from campus and near his apartment building, investigators said.

"Somehow, the victim got back to his apartment," Los Angeles Police Lieutenant
Andy Neiman said at a news conference.

Ji, who apparently had just walked a friend home, did not call police. "Someone
else called police," Neiman said.

Police said that the attack may have been a crime of opportunity, and that it
was unclear whether Ji was robbed.

A cause of death has not been determined, but university officials said he
appeared to have suffered a head injury.

Ji was a second-year graduate student at the Viterbi School of Engineering. He
entered the school in the fall of 2013.

Ji's family in China has been notified of his death and the school is making
arrangements for them to travel to Los Angeles, school officials said.

In a statement issued Friday on its website, the consulate-general of China in
Los Angeles expressed strong condemnation of the crime and extended heartfelt
condolences to the victim's family.

It also urged that police and USC solve the crime as soon as possible and take
action to ensure the safety of Chinese students in Los Angeles.

A consul spokesman told China Daily in a phone interview that support will be
provided to the victim's family.

The attack came two years after two other Chinese graduate students were shot to
death near campus.

In April 2012, two 23-year-old Chinese graduate students in the electrical
engineering program, Ying Wu and Ming Qu, were shot to death around 1 a.m. while
sitting in a parked BMW just west of campus.

The students' parents filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the university,
saying the school misled them when it said it ranked among the safest in the
United State.

USC has the biggest international student population in the US. According to the
statistic on USC's website, 3,771 Chinese students attended in the school year
2012-2013.

A Chinese female graduate student at USC, who said she lives in the same
apartment building where Ji lived, told China Daily on Thursday that her
roommate saw massive blood from the victim in an elevator when she came back to
their apartment around 1 am.

"I am moving out this weekend to stay temporarily with my friend in Burbank. I
know it is far from school. But I can't stay here anymore,'' said the student
who asked that her name not be used.

A recent USC graduate, also Chinese and who did not want her name used, told
China Daily that on-campus security is much better than off-campus. She said
that north of the campus where Ji was attacked is considered much safer than the
off-campus south area.

"City Park is considered newer, safer and better compared to other off-campus
housing," she said. ``Now I am not sure. I don't know where I can recommend
junior Chinese students to rent."

Dongying Yang, Executive Chairman of CSSA, Chinese Students & Scholars
Association said CSSA is deeply sad for losing Ji in the Chines community. He
recalled "Ji is a nice Chinese young man and very hard working student."

CSSA claimed that USC should take responsibility for not providing necessary
security in off campus area in the summer. Yang introduced to China Daily in the
interview that off campus patrol is not on duty in summer break in USC. Yang
believed this is the main reason why Ji lost the opportunity to ask for help as
soon as attacked. Yang also introduced that the ground floor security was off
duty at night on Thursday too.

Yang said as a student how used to take one year course in EE program and still
a friend of many EE students at USC, he is very concerned that the safety of EE
students are put at edge because the fact that lots of projects they have are
have to be done on school's computer. "Me myself and many of my friends in this
program often have to study in lab until 2-3 o'clock in the morning. "Yang said.
" Another problem is one of EE's core courses is only offered in summer. Many
Chinese students as well other other international students have to stay to take
that course when security is not guaranteed. "CSSA is now requesting USC to
bring back the off campus patrol, as Yang said.

CCSA also told China Daily that Chinese international students are often
described "rich people "or " the second generation of the rich class in China ".
"Most of us are from ordinary families and we come to US for education like many
other international students. Almost everymonth there is rubbery around USC area
and victims so often fall in Chinese." Young said.

Xu Yuan, Chairman of CSSA said to China Daily in an phone interview that it is
the time to call for more supports to international students especially Chinese
students from universities and the US society.

cindyliu@chinadailyusa.com

Huang Xilin contributed to the story

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

Drifter found guilty

BYLINE: BY DOUGLAS MORINO, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 575 words



HIGHLIGHT: Samuel Little killed three women in the 1980s, and police think he
may have killed more.


For more than 20 years, the crimes dogged investigators - three murdered women
were dumped in dark, debris-strewn alleyways and empty lots near downtown Los
Angeles.

The cold cases were closed Tuesday when a career criminal linked to violent
crimes across the country was convicted of murdering the women in the 1980s.

Samuel Little, 74 years old and bound to a wheelchair, was found guilty Tuesday
of the murders of Carol Alford, 41, killed in July 1987; Audrey Nelson, 35,
killed in August 1989; and Guadalupe Apodaca, 46, killed in September 1989.

A jury of seven women and five men deliberated for two hours before convicting
Little on three counts of first degree murder.

Los Angeles Police Department detectives reopened the cases after learning in
April 2012 that DNA evidence linked Little to Nelson's murder. DNA matches also
came back on the other two victims, prosecutors said. Evidence taken from the
women and crime scenes were connected to Little's DNA, stored in a criminal
database.

Investigators said the crimes were sexually motivated and that Little, a former
boxer, would target women who were drug-addicted prostitutes and who lived on
society's fringes. All three women were strangled to death and found nude below
the waist. Their bodies were dumped in alleyways near downtown Los Angeles.

Apodaca's son, Tony Zanbrano, 50, said his own life had been blighted by his
mother's death and a quarter-century of not knowing who had killed her.

"I was totally happy, grateful that this nightmare has ended, knowing that he
won't be on the streets to hurt somebody else," he said outside court. "He was a
monster. He'd thrive on killing mothers."

Little, a lifelong drifter, was arrested by U.S. Marshall officers on an
outstanding narcotics warrant in September 2012 in Louisville, Ky., at the
Wayside Christian Mission. He waived extradition and was brought back to Los
Angeles.

He had been arrested in 24 states through 56 years in connection with crimes
that included assault, burglary, armed robbery, DUI and drug violations.

But there could be many more murders. During the trial, prosecutor Beth
Silverman said that Little could be responsible for at least 40 killings since
1980. Authorities in California, Florida, Kentucky, Missouri, Louisiana, Texas,
Georgia, Mississippi and Ohio are looking for possible links.

After growing up with his grandmother in Lorain, Ohio, Little was first arrested
when he was 16 for committing a burglary in Nebraska. He was first accused of
murders and attempted murders in Gainesville, Fla., and Pascagoula, Miss., in
the early 1980s, when he went by the name Samuel McDowell.

Little avoided conviction in those cases. Little was also acquitted of
attempting to murder two prostitutes in San Diego in 1984, but pleaded guilty to
assault and false imprisonment. He was paroled after serving 2 1/2 years of a
four-year sentence and moved to Los Angeles.

Alford was found dead in an alley in south Los Angeles six months later. Nelson
was later found dead in a trash bin in downtown. Apodaca was found in an empty
commercial lot in south Los Angeles.

A grand jury in Los Angeles indicted Little in April 2013 of the three murders
with the special circumstance of multiple murders. Prosecutors chose not to seek
the death penalty.

Little is scheduled to appear in court on Sept. 25, where he will be sentenced
to life in prison without the possibility of parole.

The Associated Press

contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday

Hedding Law Firm Offers Its Expertise to Deal with Domestic Violence Cases

LENGTH: 415  words


Crime is punishable by law in every country. The United States is one of those
countries where law and regulation is maintained with utmost rigour. The Hedding
Law Firm has been playing its humble part in the domain of judiciary. Its
current head is Ronald Hedding, who is a renowned criminal attorney in Los
Angeles. He has expertise and experience in various criminal domains. Thus, his
firm has specialist attorneys to represent clients in different cases at the
court of law. The firm has lawyers who can represent clients in the superior
court too.


Every Los Angeles criminal lawyer in the Hedding Law Firm is qualified and has
ample experience of dealing in wide array of criminal cases. The law firm has
earned many accolades and honours for its services in the criminal defence
domain. The central idea of the firm is to maintain the differentiation between
crime by choice and crime due to circumstance. People often find themselves
caught amid legal battle due to lack of awareness about a particular criminal
law. At times they are forced by circumstance to commit inappropriate things but
they hate it and do not intend to repeat. Such people may commit crime but they
are not hazardous to the society and only an experienced Los Angeles criminal
attorney can establish that in the court of law. So, it is very important to
seek for a criminal defence advocate as soon as any legal trouble is sensed.
The Hedding Law Firm has combined experience of 75 years in the domain of
representing clients in the court of law. It deals in various cases including
domestic violence, which happens to be on the rise. Federal crimes, juvenile
crimes, drug crimes and domestic violence are all different forms of crime and
the strategy to proceed in either of those varies. So, The Hedding Law Firm has
extended its service to provide the advice to follow when searching for a
lawyer.
The distinction with domestic violence cases is that the prosecution cannot be
averted or evaded by the request of the spouse. The case goes into the hands of
special prosecuting agencies. Thus, the need for assistance from legal experts
becomes inevitable. The Hedding Law Firm is the best agency to find a good
domestic violence lawyer in Los Angeles. Since its establishment more than 7
decades ago, the firm has been dealing with domestic violence cases regularly.
Not many law firms match the understanding of the complexities of such cases
that The Hedding Law Firm boasts of.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday
                              CourierMail3 Edition

Newman laws get NY cop's approval

BYLINE: Sarah Vogler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 298  words


THE State Government's anti-bikie laws have the backing of New York's top cop.
NY Police Commissioner Bill Bratton told Premier Campbell Newman yesterday to
"go for it" when it comes to his bikie crackdown, including the VLAD laws
modelled on the RICO legislation rolled out in the US to crack down on the mafia
and bikie gangs there.

"The way it has been described to me, in terms of what those bikie gangs engage
in ... they are effectively organised crime activities," he said.

"RICO certainly has helped us in the US to deal with not only, in this city, the
mafia - the five families that once ruled in this city - but with many other
types of activity.

"In Los Angeles, when I was chief of police there, we used RICO-type activities,
we used gang injunctions ... to effectively control the gangs that we dealt with
there, and we use many of those same tactics here to deal with operational
gangs." And Mr Bratton said it was working.

"Crime has gone down every year for the last 24 years and it is down again this
year," he said.

"Our homicides as of today are down 20 per cent this year.

"Our shootings are down almost 20 per cent.

"Overall crime is down going into the 25th year." Mr Newman said he took a lot
away from his briefing.

"We clearly haven't had the same challenges with crime that cities like New York
and Los Angeles have had but the alcohol-fuelled violence and the criminal
motorcycle gang issue are the issues that we must solve," he said.

"I think one of the big things the commissioner said to me today is the
importance of the community deciding that they want to do something like
this."So the strategy, the plan that the Government releases in the next three
weeks, we are essentially going to be asking the community to get behind us and
the Queensland Police Service."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             August 22, 2014 Friday

Former sheriff s deputy arrested in Santa Fe Springs for distributing child
pornography

BYLINE: Jason Henry

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words


The Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children taskforce arrested a
former sheriff s deputy at his Santa Fe Springs home Wednesday for allegedly
sharing child pornography over the internet.

Officers from the taskforce took Lorne A. Reed, 32, of Santa Fe Springs, into
custody for distribution of child pornography after searching his home and
computers at the culmination of a five-month investigation. Detectives began
investigating Reed in April after a proactive search discovered some of the
material he was allegedly sharing.

Reed joined LASD in 2007 and resigned in February 2013 from the court services
division, according to a sheriff s spokeswoman.

The former deputy was with his two children at the time of his arrest. Both were
taken into protective custody by the Department of Children and Family Services,
according to the Los Angeles Police Department.

A Facebook profile listed LASD as his current job and the U.S. Marine Corps as
his previous employer before the account s deletion Wednesday evening. The
profile indicated he attended Rio Hondo College after going to high school in
Danville, Ill. His profile picture, his education information and his employment
history were each removed shortly after his release, before the profile was
taken down.

Reed was held on a $20,000 bond before his release and is scheduled to appear in
Los Angeles Municipal Court Sept. 10.

The Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children taskforce is made up
of 62 federal and local agencies including Homeland Security and the Whittier
Police Department. Anyone with information about the inappropriate touching of a
child or child pornography should contact their local law enforcement agency or
call the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children at 800-843-5678.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 25, 2014 Monday
                                 ONLINE EDITION

PEOPLE

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 364 words


Rap mogul Suge Knight is shot in nightclub

Death Row Records founder and rap mogul Marion "Suge" Knight was injured in a
shooting early Sunday morning in a packed nightclub but was expected to survive,
a Los Angeles County sheriff's sergeant said.

Knight was one of three club patrons struck by gunfire about 1:30 a.m. at 1OAK
on West Hollywood's Sunset Boulevard, said Sgt. C. Tatar, watch commander at the
Los Angeles County sheriff's West Hollywood station.

Two other victims, a man and a woman, were also being treated at area hospitals
and were expected to survive.

Authorities are still seeking a suspect and declined to release additional
information, citing the ongoing investigation.

The shooting came just hours before MTV's Video Music Awards. R&B singer Chris
Brown, who was co-hosting a party at the nightclub with Pia Mia, was also inside
the club but not hit by the gunfire, Tatar said.

MTV said it had no affiliation or connection to the event.

Knight has been shot before. In 2005, he was struck in the leg at an MTV awards
pre-party in Miami Beach.

Pop star is questioned in assault inquiry o British pop star Cliff Richard says
police have questioned him about a sexual assault allegation.

A statement issued Sunday on behalf of Richard says the allegation that he
assaulted a boy at a religious rally in Sheffield, northern England, in the
1980s is "completely false."

Police, who do not name suspects unless they are charged, said a man, 73, was
interviewed under caution at a police station Saturday. He was not arrested.

Richard was one of Britain's first rock stars in the 1950s and has recorded hit
singles over the past six decades.

CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS

Game-show host Monty Hall is 93. Actor Sean Connery is 84. TV personality Regis
Philbin is 83. Actor Tom Skerritt is 81. R&B singer Walter Williams is 72. Rock
singer-actor Gene Simmons is 65. Rock singer Elvis Costello is 60. Movie
director Tim Burton is 56. Country singer Billy Ray Cyrus is 53. Actor Blair
Underwood is 50. Rap DJ Terminator X is 48. Alternative country singer Jeff
Tweedy is 47. Television chef Rachael Ray is 46. Model Claudia Schiffer is 44.
Actress Rachel Bilson is 33. Actress Blake Lively is 27.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In a Feb. 26, 2003 file photo, rap music mogul Marion "Suge'
Knight walks out of the Los Angeles County jail, in Los Angeles. Knight has been
injured in an early morning shooting Sunday, Aug. 24, 2014, at a West Hollywood
nightclub but is expected to survive. Sgt. C. Tatar, watch commander at the Los
Angeles County sheriff department's West Hollywood station, says the 49-year-old
Knight and two others were hit at the 1OAK club around 1:30 a.m. Authorities say
the club was packed at the time, and they are still seeking a suspect. The other
victims were a man and a woman. (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

Safe Oakland Speaker Series returns for summer

BYLINE: By Mimi Rohr Correspondent

SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; News; Local

LENGTH: 581 words


OAKLAND -- District 4 Councilmember and Oakland mayoral candidate Libby Schaaf
will continue her Safe Oakland Speaker Series with forums scheduled Sunday and
June 22 at the Impact Hub in downtown Oakland.

"I really want to continue to have a community dialogue about safety in
Oakland," Schaaf said. "We have an incredibly educated citizenry. When we engage
them, we will be more effective. All cities have become safer when their
leadership has a unified vision."

The first dialogue in the series is titled "Safety Is a Civil Right!" It will
feature Connie Rice, a nationally renowned civil rights litigator who cofounded
the Advancement Project with Susan Lee, which was credited with dramatically
helping to reduce crime in Los Angeles.

"I believe Los Angeles has many lessons for Oakland," Schaaf said. "It has
similar demographics and geography to Oakland and reduced violent crime by 81
percent (and property crime by 68.5 percent) while coming out of consent decree
similar to Oakland. They are a city that I am really studying because Los
Angeles can really be a road map for Oakland. I would love to see an 81 percent
decline in crime for Oakland."

Rice and Lee will share their story of how their project played a big role in
reducing crime in Los Angeles through improving police-community relations and
supporting education, including aiding in the expansion of preschool programs
and the creation of new schools in the Los Angeles area.

They will be joined by panelists for discussion, including state Sen. Loni
Hancock, D-Berkeley, chair of the Senate Public Safety Committee; David
Muhammad, former chief probation officer for Alameda County and the deputy
commissioner of New York City's department of probation; and Sean Whent,
Oakland's police chief.

"The series started with a big focus on police, but we are trying to look at the
full spectrum of intervention," Schaaf said. "As part of our safety in Oakland,
delving into schools is an important part of the conversation for preventing
violence and creating a safe city."

The June 22 forum, entitled "Oakland's Back to School Blueprint," will focus on
how to keep students safe in school and prepare them to graduate from high
school.

Panelists for this forum will include David Kakishiba, Oakland Unified School
District president and executive director of the East Bay Asian Youth Center;
Kareem Weaver, the executive director of New Leaders, Bay Area; Geoffrey
Godfrey, the executive director of Oakland's California Youth Outreach; Demetria
Huntsman, the program coordinator at Youth Alive's Teens on Target; and Junious
Williams, the chief executive officer for Urban Strategies Council.

"I think the series is empowering because it shows that it can be done," Schaaf
said.

"Cities can go from being dangerous to safe. It's time that Oaklanders stop
accepting that crime is some form of urban tax.

Hearing successes in other cities empowers and motivates them to ask for more."

Both forums are free and will be held from 4 to 6 p.m. Sunday and June 22 at
Impact Hub, 2323 Broadway.

For more information about these events, go to www.safeoakland.com .FYI
What: Safe Oakland Speaker Series
When: 4 to 6 p.m. Sunday, "Safety Is a Civil Right!" which will examine how Los
Angeles reduced violent crime; 4 to 6 p.m. June 22, "Oakland Back-to-School
Blueprint," which will look at how schools can keep all students safe and ready
to graduate
Where: Impact Hub, 2323 Broadway
Cost: Free
Information: 510-238-7004, email www.safeoakland.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Washington: Sixth Annual Cyber Crime Symposium

LENGTH: 822  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Federal Bureau of Investigation, The Government of USA has issued the
following news release:

A coalition of law enforcement agencies, child advocacy groups, private
entities, and the Archdiocese of Los Angeles participated in the Sixth Annual
Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium, a day-long seminar for more than 400
educators, parents, and middle and high school students being held at the
California Endowment in Los Angeles on October 29, 2014.

The symposium addressed a wide range of Internet-related security and safety
issues with speakers conducting discussions on topics that included child
exploitation, cyber bullying, digital reputation, social media and Internet
dangers, and sextortion, among other topics. A special celebrity guest from a
Disney program also made an appearance during the lunch break.

"Children who are growing up in this high-tech age are being targeted by online
predators at an alarmingly high rate," said Deanne Tilton Durfee, Executive
Director for the Inter-Agency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect (ICAN). "Each
year, this symposium will provide participants with resources and tools to help
children learn how to protect themselves and be safe in the cyber world, while
enjoying all of the benefits of the fast-growing technologies."

Student teams from each of the schools attending this one-day symposium will
also be invited to participate in the 4th Annual Cyber Safety contest to develop
a cyber safety program at their respective schools in order to educate the
entire student body on the various risks associated with cyber crime. The
contest aims to promote good cyber etiquette by challenging students to engage
in creating the cyber safety programs. Students participating in this challenge
will have their contest entries judged by a panel, and the winning school will
be publicized in May 2015.

"Each year, the FBI participates in this event to have a direct impact on kids
so that they can protect themselves and act as our ambassadors among their peers
in stemming online victimization by predators or cyber bullies," said Bill L.
Lewis, Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "As
I've said in the past, technology has enhanced our lives, but there are those
who use the Internet to target children with bullying campaigns, sextortion
schemes, or by disguising their identity and their malicious intentions."

Organized under the aegis of ICAN, law enforcement agencies participating in
today's conference include the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the United States Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office,
and the Los Angeles Police Department Internet Crimes Against Children Task
Force (ICAC).

"With the Internet becoming an integral component of our daily lives, it is
essential that everyone--especially young people--have skills to remain safe in
cyberspace," said Acting United States Attorney Stephanie Yonekura. "This
conference will help young people--the most vulnerable among us--develop and
implement strategies that will help them avoid the dangers that can be lurking
online."

The Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium also includes participation by the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles, the Los Angeles County Office of Education, Santa
Monica-UCLA Medical Center, the Anti-Defamation League, Fox Entertainment Group,
the Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros. Entertainment.

"The Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium continues to be a great resource for
parents and educators and specifically tailors content sessions to students'
interests and needs. It is an engaging day and a wonderful opportunity to learn
more about critical technology issues that our students face on a daily basis,"
said Dr. Kevin Baxter, Superintendent of Elementary Schools, Archdiocese of Los
Angeles.

"The Los Angeles City Attorney's Office is proud to partner with law
enforcement, educators, parents, and students to address the very serious
threats posed by online predators and cyber bullies," said City Attorney Mike
Feuer. "Together, we can empower our residents with the tools to keep kids safe
so that everyone can enjoy the many benefits of technology."

ICAN serves as the official County agent to coordinate the development of
services for the prevention, identification, and treatment of child abuse and
neglect. ICAN's Policy Committee includes 32 county, city, state. and federal
agency heads, as well as UCLA, the Police Chief's Association, and five private
sector members appointed by Los Angeles County's Board of Supervisors. The work
of ICAN has received national recognition as a model for inter-agency
coordination for the protection of children. In 1996, ICAN was designated as the
National Center on Child Fatality Review (NCFR).

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

LENGTH: 581 words


CALIFORNIA

275 arrested in sting of child predators

LOS ANGELES "" Authorities throughout the southern part of the state on Thursday
announced the arrests of more than 275 child predators that included a teaching
assistant for special needs kids, a retired sheriff's deputy, a soldier and a
Los Angeles Fire Department explorer.

The monthlong national campaign dubbed "Operation Broken Heart" involved a task
force of dozens of local, state and federal authorities who worked in concert
throughout the month of May, sweeping sex offenders for allegedly violating
their terms, targeting child sex traffickers, pimps, child porn traders and sex
tourists traveling abroad.

In a technique reminiscent of the infamous show "To Catch a Predator," the Los
Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children task force had its
investigators pretend to be 12 to 14-year-old children online and arrested many
individuals when they showed up to engage in sex acts with children.

OHIO

3 teens in back seat killed in car crash

ALEXANDRIA "" The State Highway Patrol said three teenagers riding in the back
seat of a car were killed when the speeding vehicle went off the road and struck
a tree in Liberty Township in Licking County near Alexandria, about 35 miles
east of Columbus.

The patrol's Granville post said the teenage driver and a front seat passenger
were injured in the Thursday afternoon accident.

The patrol says none of the car's five occupants was wearing seat belts.

The patrol identified the teens who were killed as 17-year-old Michael
Hoskinson, 15-year-old Linzie Bell and 15-year-old Cheyenne Spurgeon, all of
Johnstown.

The patrol said the driver, 16-year-old Jaylynn Rigio, and the front-seat
passenger, 16-year-old Ashton Cody, also of Johnstown, were taken to Columbus
hospitals.

GEORGIA

Couple accused of imprisoning son

BUFORD "" A suburban Atlanta couple accused of locking their son in the basement
of their home for more than a year was charged with child cruelty and false
imprisonment, police said on Thursday.

The Buford couple is accused of confining the 13-year-old boy to a small room
with a mattress and a makeshift toilet, Gwinnett County police spokesman Jake
Smith said.

Authorities began investigating when the Georgia Division of Family and Children
Services received an anonymous tip on June 15, Smith said. The boy's parents
told authorities that their son was being locked in the basement for
disciplinary reasons, Smith said.

The parents were expected to surrender to authorities on Friday, Smith said. A
telephone message left at their house was not immediately returned.

The teen was imprisoned for much of the past two years with no access to books,
toys or entertainment devices, authorities said. He was kept away from his nine
siblings and did not attend school, police said.

TENNESSEE

City renames itself after Rocky Top song

NASHVILLE "" A former mining town in East Tennessee has changed its name to
Rocky Top on a gamble that the popularity of the bluegrass standard will bring
prosperity.

Tim Sharp, mayor of the town formerly known as Lake City, confirmed the Thursday
night vote. It came after a failed last-minute bid by publishers of the song to
stop the change in federal court.

The song that declares, "Rocky Top, you'll always be home, sweet home, to me,"
has been recorded by dozens of performers over the years, including Dolly
Parton.

A group of developers thinks the name has the cachet to attract tourists.

"" From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

SECTION: Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 498 words


Court vacates 2 convictions of bin Laden aide

WASHINGTON | A civilian appeals court on Monday vacated two convictions of a
former aide to terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden.

In a split decision, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit concluded a military commission lacked authority to convict Ali Hamza
Ahmad Suliman al-Bahlul of two out of three charges.

Military prosecutors charged al-Bahlul with conspiracy to commit war crimes,
providing material support for terrorism and solicitation of others to commit
war crimes. A military commission convicted him of all three crimes and
sentenced him to life imprisonment.

In the decision Monday, the appellate court rejected al-Bahlul's challenge to
the conspiracy charge but vacated the other two.

"Solicitation of others to commit war crimes is plainly not an offense
traditionally triable by military commission," Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson
wrote, adding that "the government offers little domestic precedent to support
the notion that material support or a sufficiently analogous offense has
historically been triable by military commission."

Officer fires shot in clash at pro-Israel rally

LOS ANGELES |  A federal officer fired his weapon once at men in a truck as they
fled a pro-Israel rally in Los Angeles after using wooden poles bearing
Palestinian flags to hit protesters, authorities said Monday.

The incident, which resulted in four arrests and no injuries, occurred at the
rally on Sunday outside the Federal Building in Westwood.

The rally was held as Israel continued an offensive against Hamas that had
killed 185 people and forced thousands of Palestinian residents to flee their
homes.

The men in the truck confronted the demonstrators and struck multiple people
with their flagpoles, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Sgt. Dave Valentine said.

An officer who typically provides security for federal buildings tried to stop
the four men from attempting to flee and fired a shot from his service weapon,
Federal Protective Service spokeswoman Jacqueline Yost said in a statement.  The
name of the officer was not released.

Bill would speed removal of Central American kids

WASHINGTON | Two Texas lawmakers announced legislation Monday to speed removals
of tens of thousands of Central American kids from the U.S.-Mexico border, as
Washington searched for a solution to the growing crisis.

The bill by Sen. John Cornyn, a Republican, and Rep. Henry Cuellar, a Democrat,
would allow U.S.  Border Patrol agents to turn many of the kids around quickly
at the border. Under current law, the youths stay here while awaiting an
eventual hearing in the backlogged immigration court system, something that can
keep them in this country for years.

Of more than 57,000 unaccompanied minors who've arrived at the border since
October, only 1,254 had been returned home as of the end of June, according to a
law enforcement official who spoke anonymously to discuss confidential data.

- From wire service reports

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday
                            PITTSBURGH PRESS EDITION

CBS TV SHOWS RETURNING, BUT WITH SOME CHANGES

BYLINE: Rich Heldenfels, Akron Beacon Journal

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; TELEVISION Q&A; Pg. A-9

LENGTH: 561 words


Q.: On CBS' new fall schedule, what is the status of "Criminal Minds," "NCIS:
Los Angeles" and "The Mentalist"?

A.: All of those shows are returning next season, although with some changes.
"NCIS: Los Angeles" is moving from its cozy slot following the original "NCIS"
on Tuesdays to Monday nights at 10 ET, with CBS assuming that it has a loyal
enough audience that it will follow the show to the new time period. That opens
up "NCIS: L.A.'s" 9 p.m. ET Tuesday slot for the new series "NCIS: New Orleans,"
which can benefit from the original "NCIS" as a lead-in.

"The Mentalist" is not in CBS' fall lineup but will appear later in the season.
"Criminal Minds," meanwhile, will stay the course at 9 p.m. ET Wednesdays
starting in the fall.

Q.: G.W. Bailey is so good on "Major Crimes." What has he done previously?

A.: Besides playing Provenza on "Major Crimes" and its predecessor, "The
Closer," Mr. Bailey has been on dozens of TV shows and in movies. His two
best-known roles may be as Sgt. Luther Rizzo on the TV series version of
"M*A*S*H," and as Thaddeus Harris in most of the "Police Academy" movies.

A native of Port Arthur, Texas, he went to school with Janis Joplin. And he is
executive director of the Sunshine Kids Foundation, which provides positive
activities for children with cancer; you can learn more about it at
www.sunshine?kids.org.

Q.: In the early '70s, ABC telecast a wacky sitcom called "Temperatures Rising."
At times you needed a road map to find the show, even in those pre-cable days.
Anyway, after format changes, ABC put it on hiatus but said it would be back.
This was in 1973 or 1974. Any chance that it will return?

A.: If NBC would give "Ironside" a retooling (albeit an unsuccessful one) 38
years after the Raymond Burr series ended, it's very, very remotely possible
someone would consider rebooting another show from that period. But
"Temperatures Rising" was a mess; "The Complete Directory to Prime Time Network
and Cable TV Shows" says the show had "three different casts and formats in two
years," from September 1972 to August 1974.

The first season had a hospital chief of surgery (James Whitmore) clashing with
a rambunctious staff including Cleavon Little. The second, renamed "The New
Temperatures Rising Show," dropped Whitmore and kept Little, but added Paul
Lynde running the hospital, which his mother (Sudie Bond) now owned. For the
third try, Bond was out and Lynde had a sister, played by Alice Ghostley. And
that was that. But if you really miss it, you can find some old episodes on
YouTube.

Q.: I had recently heard about this TV show from the early 1970s called "The
Sixth Sense" with Gary Collins. I looked online to see if there was a DVD or VHS
copy but to no avail. I would love to watch this show some way or another. Do
you know where or how I may find it?

A.: Not to be confused with the Bruce Willis movie of the same name, "The Sixth
Sense" starred Collins as Michael Rhodes, a university professor investigating
weird phenomena. It was derived from a 1971 TV movie called "Sweet, Sweet
Rachel," with Alex Dreier as the main character. I do not know of an authorized
release of either the film or the series on home video. You can find some
episodes, and "Sweet, Sweet Rachel," on YouTube. And, based on the logos on
those videos, the Chiller channel carried the show at one time but does not
currently list it.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Do you have a question or comment for the mailbag? Write to the Akron
Beacon Journal, 44 E. Exchange St., Akron, OH 44309 or email
rheldenfels@thebeaconjournal.com Please mark the email or envelope with
"mailbag." Letters may be edited for publication. Please do not phone in
questions. Individual replies cannot be guaranteed. /

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (For Two Photos) CBS' "NCIS: L.A." (Monty Brinton/CBS) will be
moving from its Tuesday time slot to Monday nights to make room for "NCIS: New
Orleans," pictured below (Skip Bolen/CBS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Police Commission s inspector general launches probe into department s crime
measures, data

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words


The Los Angeles Police Department s civilian watchdog is launching a multiyear
analysis of the department s metrics-driven system used to measure crime and its
crime statistics after an outside review found more than 1,000 violent offenses
during a one-year period were classified incorrectly.

Inspector General Alexander A. Bustamante, who reports directly to the
five-member civilian Police Commission, said he is  launching a full
investigation into Compstat  that will include  obtaining documents, identifying
individuals that need to be interviewed and doing further investigation.

We ll critique the crime measures used by the department and to the extent we
find any issues, we ll immediately report them to the police commission and we
ll include any of those issues in the public report,  Bustamante said.

On Sunday, the Los Angeles Times reported that nearly 1,200 violent crimes   the
vast majority of which were aggravated assaults   were recorded and reported to
the FBI as minor offenses and not as serious crime. If those incidents had been
reported correctly, the total aggravated assaults for the 12-month period ending
in September 2013 would have been almost 14 percent higher than the official
figure and overall violent crime would have jumped by 7 percent, according to
the newspaper report.

Bustamante said the probe, which he said would be launched immediately and be
much more expansive  than what a newspaper could do, will look at  all features
of the Compstat  system, including  several years worth of data  and  thousands
and thousands of cases.

There is a normal margin of error in classifications. (But) one is too many,
Police Commission President Steve Soboroff said.  It s incumbent upon me to ask
the inspector general to use his abilities and powers to gather more information
so the misclassifications, so the errors stop... Even if there are answers to
the questions, it s important that we go deeper because we need trust in the
system and I need trust in the system.

Soboroff said he was also concerned about another issue involving the correct
number of homicides LAPD has actually solved. The Daily News reported last week
that the department has refused to release information that would show whether
or not they solved hundreds of murders after officials initially offered to
present those records. LAPD Chief Charlie Beck has said the LAPD solved many
more murders than it reported to federal and state authorities.

Bustamante said his office is also reviewing that matter.

Regarding the misclassifications, LAPD Comdr. Andrew Smith said the department
was  never going to be perfect  when it came to keeping statistics on crimes,
saying there are always errors in miscoding and reporting. Smith said the
findings do not affect the overall crime declines the city has seen in the last
eleven years.

This is a coding problem and a statistical problem, not a putting people in jail
problem,  Smith said.

According to the LAPD s web page on Compstat, however,  accurate and timely
intelligence or information is absolutely essential in effectively responding to
any problem or crisis.  The statistics are also used in measuring the department
s performance.

The newspaper reports and LAPD s own 2012 audit have prompted the department to
provide additional training to personnel in the field who are entering crime
data into the system as well as supervisors who review those reports, Smith
said. Anyone found to be manipulating or falsifying crime data is seen as
committing major misconduct and would be  subject to severe discipline,  he
said.

Staff Writer Mike Reicher contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

LA Criminalist Professor Advises Students To 'Excel In Science, Math'

LENGTH: 416  words

DATELINE: Long Beach


California State University, Long Beach has issued the following news release:

By 2022, I expect that an effective forensic scientist will need to have a
greater knowledge of statistics, probability models, and computer science," said
Donald Johnson, a professor in the School of Criminal Justice and Criminalistics
at California State University, Los Angeles (CSULA). In coming years, experts
predict that digital computer forensics and DNA specialties will dominate the
field. To secure a competitive edge, scholars that have earned a bachelor's
degree in natural science and a master's degree in forensic science will stand a
greater chance of securing an annual salary of more than $80,000, reports the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Passion to delve into a practice, that utilizes scientific methods to gather and
examine artifacts about the past to solve a crime, is made evident by the
expanding number of students applying to CSULA's criminalistics Master's of
Science degree program, which Johnson directs. "Criminalistics is an ideal
profession to study and practice in Los Angeles, because L.A. is home to the
state-of-the-art Hetzberg-Davis Forensic Science Center on the campus of Cal
State L.A.," said Johnson, who dedicated 15 years of his career to the role of a
senior criminalist at the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department. "Our mission is to
prepare students to become competent forensic scientists and responsible members
of the criminal justice system."

What makes your school superb?
"The center includes the crime laboratories of the Los Angeles Police Department
and the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. We also collaborate with
numerous criminal justice professionals and science industries."

How is CSULA helping graduates become employable?
"Hands-on exercises, research projects and crime lab internships assist our
students in developing a forensic science perspective and the necessary
laboratory skills for the position."

What defines an accomplished forensic scientist?
"The key attributes of a successful forensic scientist are an analytical and
meticulous mind, a good moral character and strong stomach."

What is your message to aspiring forensic scientists?
"My advice to those interested in pursuing a career in forensic science is to
excel in science and math, and bear in mind that employers will conduct
background investigations on their applicants."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                              July 28, 2014 Monday

Chinese USC grad student found dead

LENGTH: 538  words


A 24-year-old Chinese graduate student at USC was found dead at his off-campus
apartment after being attacked by at least three men as he was walking home from
a study group, police said.

Police said they were called at about 7 am on Thursday to an apartment in the
1200 block of 30th Street where they discovered the body of Xinran Ji.

Ji was assaulted with a blunt object around 12:45 am on Thursday a few blocks
from campus and near his apartment building, investigators said.

"Somehow, the victim got back to his apartment," Los Angeles Police Lieutenant
Andy Neiman said at a news conference.

Ji, who apparently had just walked a friend home, did not call police. "Someone
else called police," Neiman said.

Police said that the attack may have been a crime of opportunity, and that it
was unclear whether Ji was robbed.

A cause of death has not been determined, but university officials said he
appeared to have suffered a head injury.

Ji was a second-year graduate student at the Viterbi School of Engineering. He
entered the school in the fall of 2013.

Ji's family in China has been notified of his death and the school is making
arrangements for them to travel to Los Angeles, school officials said.

In a statement issued Friday on its website, the consulate-general of China in
Los Angeles expressed strong condemnation of the crime and extended heartfelt
condolences to the victim's family.

It also urged that police and USC solve the crime as soon as possible and take
action to ensure the safety of Chinese students in Los Angeles.

A consul spokesman told China Daily in a phone interview that support will be
provided to the victim's family.

The attack came two years after two other Chinese graduate students were shot to
death near campus.

In April 2012, two 23-year-old Chinese graduate students in the electrical
engineering program, Ying Wu and Ming Qu, were shot to death around 1 a.m. while
sitting in a parked BMW just west of campus.

The students' parents filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the university,
saying the school misled them when it said it ranked among the safest in the
United State.

USC has the biggest international student population in the US. According to the
statistic on USC's website, 3,771 Chinese students attended in the school year
2012-2013.

A Chinese female graduate student at USC, who said she lives in the same
apartment building where Ji lived, told China Daily on Thursday that her
roommate saw massive blood from the victim in an elevator when she came back to
their apartment around 1 am.

"I am moving out this weekend to stay temporarily with my friend in Burbank. I
know it is far from school. But I can't stay here anymore,' said the student who
asked that her name not be used.

A recent USC graduate, also Chinese and who did not want her name used, told
China Daily that on-campus security is much better than off-campus. She said
that north of the campus where Ji was attacked is considered much safer than the
off-campus south area.

"City Park is considered newer, safer and better compared to other off-campus
housing," she said. "Now I am not sure. I don't know where I can recommend
junior Chinese students to rent."

cindyliu@chinadailyusa.com

(China Daily USA 07/28/2014 page3)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                            September 7, 2014 Sunday

2 men charged with string of burglaries in O.C., suspected of others in L.A.

BYLINE: BY ALYSSA DURANTY, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 359 words


Two men police say are known Los Angeles gang members were arrested in Lake
Forest last week on suspicion of burglarizing several homes in Los Angeles and
Orange counties, officials announced late Wednesday night.

Domanique Thomas, 25, and Desean Ward, 22, who both have extensive criminal
backgrounds, pleaded not guilty at an arraignment Tuesday to three counts of
attempting to commit first-degree residential burglary, two counts of
first-degree residential burglary, one count of conspiracy to commit a crime and
one count of street terrorism - all felonies, according to the criminal
complaint.

The men were arrested Aug. 28 after Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department
officials said they followed the pair to Lake Forest. There, police say the men
committed a series of home burglaries.

L.A. sheriff's officials were called to a burglary scene on the morning of Aug.
25 by a homeowner on Sierra Oak Trail in Castaic. Deputies found a rear window
had been smashed, and jewelry and cash were missing, officials said.

About a mile away, a resident on Branch Road walked in on a man burglarizing the
home. The man ran out of the house and fled in a Porsche SUV. The homeowner
described the man to deputies and gave a vehicle description with a partial
license plate number.

Authorities said deputies responded that afternoon to two more burglaries at
houses on Mariposa Lane and Sierra Oak Trail. Residents reported the burglaries
after returning home.

On Aug. 28, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department officials located a Porsche
SUV they suspected was the getaway vehicle in the Castaic burglaries. Detectives
followed the car to a residential area in Lake Forest, where they saw two men
burglarize and ransack several homes.

With the help of Orange County Sheriff's Department officials, L.A. deputies
pulled over the men in the SUV and arrested them on suspicion of burglary.

Stolen property from several Orange County burglaries was found inside the SUV.
Officials think the property from the Los Angeles burglaries was quickly sold
after the crimes.

Charges for the Los Angeles crimes are pending, officials said.



aduranty@losangelesregister.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday

Brad Pitt attacked at 'Maleficent' premiere;
Man attacks Brad Pitt on carpet at Hollywood premiere of 'Maleficent,' Pitt
apparently fine

SECTION: A; Pg.3

LENGTH: 256  words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - A man was jailed on suspicion of battery after rushing up and
touching Brad Pitt on the red carpet at the Hollywood premiere of the movie
"Maleficent," witnesses and police said, though Pitt was apparently unhurt and
soon resumed signing autographs.

Witnesses saw the man from the fan area jump over a barrier onto the red carpet
at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood and rush at Pitt, touching him briefly
before security guards wrestled him back across the barrier.

The man was led away in handcuffs and arrested on suspicion of battery, said Los
Angeles police spokeswoman Nuria Venegas, who did not know the suspect's name.
She could only confirm that he made contact with Pitt, and could not classify it
any further.

Pitt kept greeting fans and walked into the theater.

Pitt's longtime partner Angelina Jolie stars in "Maleficent," Disney's new live
action spin on its animated classic "Sleeping Beauty."

Before the incident, Jolie told The Associated Press that the El Capitan is like
a local theater for herself, Pitt and their kids, who usually don't attend her
premieres but did Wednesday night.

"Well, oddly, we usually go to the El Capitan, that's where we take the kids.
That's the closest theater to us," Jolie said. "This is the first time they were
able to come to mommy's premiere."

The man got to Pitt despite security that was heavy for a movie premiere, with
guards keeping a large gap between the stars and the crowd.

Email messages left for representatives for Pitt and Disney were not immediately
returned.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
                 DONOR: Los Angeles Police Federal Credit Union


                        LAST UPDATED: December 21, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Police Federal Credit Union
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2017


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
                  DONOR: Los Angeles Police Relief Association


                        LAST UPDATED: December 21, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Police Relief Association
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2017


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

30 jailed during San Gabriel Valley AB 109 compliance sweep

BYLINE: Brian Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


SAN GABRIEL VALLEY >> A task force charged with monitoring convicts released
from jail under AB 109 guidelines arrested 30 people during a compliance check
throughout the western San Gabriel Valley early Wednesday, officials said.

The task force visited the listed homes of 88 people who are free on
Post-Release Community Supervision, under the 2011 state prison alignment plan,
Arcadia police Lt. Colleen Flores said in a written statement. The probationers
were contacted at 61 of the homes, while the remaining 27 were either not home
or not longer living at their listed addresses.

Compliance checks took place in Arcadia, Pasadena, South Pasadena, Monrovia, El
Monte and Monterey Park, Sgt. Brett Bourgeous said.

The zero-tolerance focus of the enforcement campaign was aimed at apprehending
AB 109 absconders with outstanding warrants, and conducting compliance checks in
accordance with a person s probation conditions,  Flores said.  Many of the
probationers contacted during the course of the operation were known to have
previous court violations to include weapons charges, assault charges and
property crimes.

The 30 probationers arrested Wednesday were accused of crimes ranging from
violating probation to drug charges, officials said. Officers jailed at least
one of the probationers on suspicion of gun possession and seized a firearm.

The West San Gabriel Valley Anti-Crime Task Force is comprised of officers from
the Arcadia, Pasadena, South Pasadena, Monrovia, El Monte and Monterey Park
police departments, as well as the Los Angeles County Probation Department.
Officials from the Long Beach, Burbank, Glendale and San Fernando police
departments also took part in Wednesday s campaign, along with Los Angeles
County sheriff s deputies and officials from the County of Los Angeles
Department of Children and Family Services.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday
                               GoldCoast Edition

Bikie plan's NYC nod

BYLINE: SARAH VOGLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 372  words


A CONTROVERSIAL suite of anti-bikie laws rolled out by the Newman Government has
been given the backing of New York's top cop.

NY Police Commissioner Bill Bratton told Mr Newman to "go for it" when it comes
to his bikie crackdown, including the Vicious Lawless Association
Disestablishment laws modelled on the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organisations legislation rolled out in the US to crack down on the mafia and
bikie gangs there.

"The way it has been described to me, in terms of what those bikie gangs engage
in ... they are effectively organised crime activities," Mr Bratton said.

"RICO certainly has helped us in the United States to deal with not only, in
this city, the mafia, the five families that once ruled in this city, but with
many other types of activity.

"In Los Angeles, when I was chief of police there, we used RICO-type activities,
we used gang injunctions ... to effectively control the gangs that we dealt with
there.

"And we use many of those same tactics here to deal with operational gangs which
are called crews in New York City." And he said that it was working.

"Crime has gone down every year for the last 24 years and it is down again this
year," Mr Bratton said.

"Our homicides as of today are down 20 per cent this year. Our shootings are
down almost 20 per cent.

"Overall crime is down going into the 25th year." Mr Bratton, who helped clean
up New York's streets alongside Mayor Rudy Giuliani, yesterday also gave Mr
Newman advice on his plans to mirror his famous "broken window" policing policy.

"The idea is that if you take care of the little things while they're still
little, you can keep them from growing into major things," Mr -Bratton said.

"We pay a lot of attention to graffiti issues, aggressive begging and street
prostitution, street narcotics dealing, public drinking and I've practised that
in Boston, New York now twice, Los Angeles and over 50 cities that I have
consulted for and it works." Mr Newman said he would take much away from his
briefing.

"We clearly haven't had the same challenges with crime that cities like New York
and Los Angeles have had," Mr Newman said."But the alcohol-fuelled violence and
the criminal motorcycle gang issue are the issues that we must solve."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

Southern California no longer world's bank robbery capital

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 313 words


LOS ANGELES (AP)   Southern California used to be known as the "Bank Robbery
Capital of the World."

Not anymore.

The number of robberies has declined, part of a larger trend that has seen crime
rates fall across the nation, the Los Angeles Times reported in Saturday's
editions.

There were 212 bank robberies last year   the lowest since the 1960s   in a
seven-county region overseen by the FBI's Los Angeles office.

At the height of the robbery spree in the early 1990s, the region saw 2,641 bank
heists. During the worst year in 1992, more than two dozen Los Angeles banks
were looted in a single day.

The drop "definitely has exceeded my expectations," said former agent Bill
Rehder, who retired in 1999 after supervising bank-robbery investigations for
two decades.

Better security at banks such as bulletproof acrylic glass has made it harder
for bandits to get access to money, authorities said. They also credit the
ability to make high-resolution images of robbers available to the public
through the Internet.

Some would-be robbers may rethink whether hitting a bank is worth it because the
haul is not as great as it used to be. The average heist in the U.S. in 2003
yielded more than $10,000. In 2011, the average gain was just over $7,500, the
Times reported.

Meanwhile, convicted robbers are slapped with stricter sentences. Each count of
bank robbery carries a maximum of 20 years and 25 years for armed robbery under
federal law.

With bank robberies declining, the FBI's LA office no longer has dedicated
agents investigating. Bank heists are now handled by agents in the violent crime
squad.

Rehder recalled the days when he designed fax cover sheets that bore the phrase
"Bank Robbery Capital of the World."

"It was the most action-packed squad we had," he said. "I got as big an
adrenaline pump out of (investigating) as these guys do planning and pulling off
robberies."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Los Angeles Register


                          LAST UPDATED: March 30, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Register
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Los Angeles Bankruptcy Forum


                          LAST UPDATED: March 30, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000 - 2,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Bankruptcy Forum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association


                          LAST UPDATED: March 30, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100 - 499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

California: 72 Linked to Broadway Gangster Crips Criminal Street Gang Charged in
Federal Racketeering Indictment that Alleges Murders, Robberies and Drug Sales
in South Los Angeles

LENGTH: 907  words

DATELINE: Sacramento


United States Attorney's Office for the Central District of California has
issued the following press release:

More than 1,300 FBI agents and LAPD officers this morning arrested 50 people
associated with the Five Deuce Broadway Gangster Crips, a street gang that
claims control of a South Los Angeles neighborhood and drug sales in an area
just west of the "Skid Row" district of Los Angeles. Those taken into custody
are among 72 defendants named in a 213-page racketeering indictment that
outlines two decades of criminal conduct, including murders, robberies,
extortion, witness intimidation and narcotics trafficking.

The investigation into the Broadway Crips was called Operation "Gremlin Riderz,"
because authorities focused on a particularly violent "clique" - or subset of
the gang - called the Gremlin Riderz. According to the 112-count indictment that
was unsealed this morning, the Broadway Crips, which has an estimated 200
members, operated as a criminal enterprise that used violence and intimidation
to control an area centering on the intersection of 52nd Street and South
Broadway in South Los Angeles. The gang was formed in the 1970s to confront
other African-American street gangs, according to the indictment, which alleges
that the enterprise has grown into a violent and criminal enterprise that
conducts annual meetings and enforces a strict set of rules.

"Criminal street gangs make their livelihood by ruthlessly preying on the
innocent people that live in the neighborhoods they claim as territory," said
United States Attorney André Birotte Jr. "What makes the conduct of this gang
particularly insidious is not only the violent crimes alleged, but also the
exploitation of Skid Row drug users who are already living in difficult
circumstances."

The defendants named in the federal indictment face various charges, including
conspiracy to engage in racketeering activity in violation of the federal
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act; violent crimes in aid of
racketeering; conspiracy to interfere with commerce by conducting a series of
robberies that targeted bank customers; weapons offenses; and various drug
trafficking activities involving crack cocaine, cocaine, methamphetamine,
phencyclidine (PCP), Ecstasy, marijuana and codeine.

The indictment specifically alleges that members of the gang:

committed four murders, dating back to 1987, that include fatal shootings of
unarmed men with no gang affiliations in 2003 and 2012;

threatened a surviving victim of the 2003 shooting, which followed a concert at
the House of Blues on the Sunset Strip;

conspired to murder a fellow gang member who had provided a statement to law
enforcement in relation to the 2012 murder incident in which a total of four
people with no gang ties were shot, including a 10-year-old girl on a bicycle;

fired shots at California Highway Patrol Officers who were pursuing gang members
two years ago;

engaged in a series of violent, "follow-home" robberies that targeted customers
of South Bay banks; and

participated in numerous narcotics sales near schools and playgrounds.

In addition to committing crimes in its claimed territory east of the Harbor
Freeway, the indictment alleges that the Broadway Crips sell drugs near the Skid
Row section of downtown Los Angeles. "This area is desirable to the gang because
it is close to Skid Row, where there is a large and vulnerable customer base of
drug addicts and mentally ill persons," according to the indictment.

Out of 72 defendants named in the federal indictment, 48 were arrested this
morning. Two more people were arrested on local charges, meaning that a total of
50 were arrested today. Seventeen defendants named in the grand jury indictment
were already in custody on unrelated charges. Authorities are continuing to
search for eight defendants, including one who faces local charges.

All 72 defendants named in the racketeering indictment face mandatory minimum
sentences of 10 years in federal prison if they are convicted. Many of the
defendants face potential sentences of life without parole.

An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime. Every
defendant is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty in court.

The investigation into the Broadway Crips was conducted by agents and officers
with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Los Angeles Police Department.
Considerable assistance was provided during this investigation by the California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, the Torrance Police Department,
the Buena Park Police Department, the El Segundo Police Department, the San
Bernardino Police Department and the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office.

Additionally, several agencies provided substantial assistance during this
morning's takedown, including the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department, the
Hawthorne Police Department, the Pasadena Police Department, the Inglewood
Police Department and the Los Angeles Fire Department.

Operation Gremlin Riderz is a result of a partnership between the FBI and the
Los Angeles Police Department under the auspices of the FBI's Task Force on
Violent Crime in the City of Los Angeles. This task force is one of dozens of
such partnerships throughout the United States, known as Safe Streets Task
Forces, funded for the purpose of assisting local police in identifying and
addressing violent crime in America.

For more information please visit: http://www.justice.gov/usao/cac

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday

Five South El Monte massage parlors busted for business, health code violations

BYLINE: Venusse Navid

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 161 words


Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department inspected and fined five South El Monte
massage parlors Wednesday, some of which were shut down by authorities, Los
Angeles County Sheriff s Department officials said in a press release.

Officials said the businesses were targeted for various business and health code
violations.

The fines issued were in the tens of thousands of dollars to three of the
businesses, officials said.

Three of the businesses were closed down by state authorities.

The crackdown consisted of 44 Los Angeles County Sheriff s officials including
the LASD Special Assignment Teams from South El Monte, Rosemead, Temple, Duarte,
and the Summer Violent Crime Enforcement Team.

Other units included LASD Major Crimes Bureau Licensing Detail, South El Monte
Code Enforcement, California Employment Development Department, California
Department of Industrial Relations, and the California Department of Insurance
Fraud Division.

No further information is available.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday

SECTION: B; Pg.3

LENGTH: 411  words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - An interview that was intended as an attempt at
rehabilitation instead had Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling facing
fresh rebukes Monday after he went from apologizing for recent racist remarks to
slamming Magic Johnson, repeatedly bringing up the ex-NBA star's HIV status and
calling him an unfit role model for children.

"He's got AIDS!" Sterling said loudly at one point in the interview, cutting off
CNN's Anderson Cooper as the interviewer attempted to cite Johnson's
accomplishments after Sterling asked, "What has he done, big Magic Johnson, what
has he done?"

The comments earned Sterling quick condemnation from the league that was already
trying to rid itself of the owner.

Commissioner Adam Silver, who gave Sterling a lifetime ban and $2.5 million fine
two weeks ago, issued a statement saying, "while Magic Johnson doesn't need me
to, I feel compelled on behalf of the NBA family to apologize to him that he
continues to be dragged into this situation and be degraded by such a malicious
and personal attack."

"The NBA Board of Governors is continuing with its process to remove Mr.
Sterling as expeditiously as possible," the commissioner added.

Johnson, who is scheduled to appear on Cooper's show to reply on Tuesday, wrote
on his Twitter account that "I'd rather be talking about these great NBA
Playoffs than Donald Sterling's interview."

In other NBA news:

Cavaliers coach Mike Brown was fired for the second time in four years by owner
Dan Gilbert, who brought back the only coach to get the Cavs to the NBA finals
but then dismissed him after the team failed to make the playoffs.

The Cavs went 33-49 under Brown, who had four years remaining on his contract.

BASEBALL: Miami Marlins ace Jose Fernandez was put on the 15-day disabled list
because of a sprained right elbow, spurring worries that his injury might be
even more severe.

The 21-year-old Fernandez was the NL Rookie of the Year last season. He is 4-2
with a 2.44 ERA in eight starts this year.

Several young pitchers have recently had elbow problems and needed Tommy John
surgery. Matt Harvey, Stephen Strasburg and Patrick Corbin are among the
All-Stars who have had the ligament transplant operation that can take 12 to 18
months for recovery.

NHL: Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist was fined $5,000 for emptying his water
bottle onto Sidney Crosby while the Pittsburgh Penguins captain was involved in
a scrum in front of the New York net during Game 6 on Sunday night.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             August 15, 2014 Friday

La Mirada doctor faces up to 157 years in prison following drug-dealing
conviction

BYLINE: Brian Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 357 words


LOS ANGELES >> A doctor from La Mirada has been convicted of federal drug
trafficking charges for the improper and illegal distribution of powerful
painkillers, officials announced Friday.

A federal jury in Los Angeles convicted Dr. Andrew Sun, 78, of 14 counts of
distributing controlled substances and three counts of money laundering for
concealing the proceeds of his crimes, U.S. Department of Justice spokesman Thom
Mrozek said in a written statement. The conviction came after three days of
trial.

Sun, who ran clinics in San Gabriel and East Los Angeles, faces up to 157 years
in prison when he returns to court for sentencing Nov. 10, officials said.

His medical license was already probationary after he was targeted in a similar
investigation in 2004. His license was suspended in late 2013.

Sun was ordered to appear at an Aug. 25 hearing in which the court will
determine whether Sun must forfeit almost $350,000 in drug proceeds, officials
said.

Sun turned himself in to authorities in April after being indicted by a indicted
by a grand jury.

He was convicted of prescribing powerful drugs such as hydrocodone, also known
as Vicodin, alprazolam, also known as Xanax, carisprodol, also known as Soma,
and promethezine with codeine, which is used to make the street drug known as
purple drank  or  sizzurp.

Through an undercover sting operation, investigators determined Sun  profited by
prescribing addictive painkillers and other controlled substances to persons
whom he believed were drug addicts, and thus that the defendant acted without
lawful medical purpose,  according to court documents.

The doctor issued more than 24,000 for controlled substances, netting $1 million
in cash between 2009 and 2012, according to the DOJ.

When undercover agents visited Sun seeking drugs,  Sun failed to conduct any
physical examination and he sold prescriptions for $150 in cash   even when he
believed he was writing the prescriptions for drug addicts,  Mrozek said.

The investigation was carried out by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration,
the IRS, the California Department of Health Care Services and the Monterey Park
Police Department.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday

Police find drugs in Bieber's hometeen singer's associates arrested during probe
into accusations of pelting eggs

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 593 words


Agence France-Presse

Los Angeles

Detectives searching pop singer Justin Bieber's Los Angeles mansion over an
egg-throwing attack seized illegal drugs and arrested one of the singer's
associates on Tuesday (yesterday Bangkok), officials said.

Los Angeles Sheriff's Department officer Dave Thompson said an individual was
arrested after the drugs were discovered in "plain view" as deputies combed
through Bieber's luxury home in the upmarket enclave of Calabasas.

Around a dozen detectives swooped on the 19-year-old star's home early Tuesday,
probing allegations that the Canadian teen idol was responsible for causing
thousands of dollars in damage to a neighbour's house after pelting it with
eggs.

Thompson said an investigation into a "felony crime" was ongoing, with the
neighbour claiming as much as $20,000 in damage was caused.

On the narcotics arrest, he initially said the drug found on the premises was
cocaine, but his department later backtracked on that statement.

"Nothing is confirmed," another spokeswoman for the sheriff's department,
Sergeant Carmen Arballo, told AFP.

"It's a controlled substance but we don't know if it's cocaine. We won't know
until it's gone to a lab and been tested."

Another sheriff's spokesman told The Los Angeles Times it could be a form of
ecstasy.

Thompson said the drugs found at Bieber's property were "in plain view of the
deputies when they were looking for the evidence".

Celebrity news website TMZ, which generally has solid sources, said the man
arrested was rapper Lil Za, one of Bieber's close friends.

Bieber, who was in the home during the raid, had been neither "arrested nor
exonerated" in connection with the vandalism case, Thompson said.

He added that the pop star was "not connected" to the drugs seizure, beyond the
fact that "the gentleman was staying at his residence".

Officials, however, dismissed suggestions that the nature of the alleged
vandalism was trivial.

"A felony crime is a felony crime. The damage was from the eggs," Thompson said.

"The felony comes from the amount of the damage, and this residence sustained a
great amount of damage that easily achieve the felony vandalism section.

"I get that the eggs don't seem that significant but it does rise to the level
of a felony. There's an extensive amount of damage and I and the sheriff's
department take that very seriously."

The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department earlier confirmed they had served a warrant
at Bieber's home over the egg-throwing allegations.

"The purpose of the search warrant is to seek video surveillance or other
possible evidence in the vandalism that occurred on January 9 ... The vandalism
damage is estimated by the homeowner to be approximately $20,000," a statement
said.

The warrant followed a complaint from a neighbour of Bieber that the star had
hurled raw eggs at his home last week.

The case was first classified as a possible misdemeanour offence.

However officials said on Tuesday it was now being probed as a more serious
felony offence because the damage to property exceeded $400.

It is not known what prompted the alleged egg attack. But if Bieber is
eventually charged and convicted with vandalism he could be facing jail time and
a heavy fine under California's penal code.

Tuesday's raid was the latest in a long line of controversial headlines which
have tarnished the once clean-cut image of Bieber, who has sold more than 12
million albums since emerging on the music scene in 2009 as a schoolboy
sensation.

He attracted criticism on a recent tour of Australia after allegedly spraying
graffiti on a hotel wall.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                             March 28, 2014 Friday

Cabrera gets big payday

SECTION: B; Pg.3

LENGTH: 988  words


The Detroit Tigers have agreed to pay Triple Crown winner Miguel Cabrera a
baseball-record $292 million over the next 10 years, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal.

The person, who said the contract is subject to a physical, spoke Thursday night
to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the agreement had not
been announced.

Cabrera is due $44 million over the final two years of his $152.3 million,
eight-year contract that runs through 2015, and the person says the slugger will
make $248 million over eight seasons in the new deal.

Depending on whether Cabrera's deal is structured as one 10-year contract or an
eight-year deal starting in 2016, it will either surpass Alex Rodriguez's $275
million, 10-year agreement with the New York Yankees for the richest contract,
or Clayton Kershaw's record for average annual value of $30,714,286 in the $215
million, seven-year deal he signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers in January.

· The Los Angeles Dodgers held a team meeting to address young star Yasiel
Puig's baserunning blunders.

Manager Don Mattingly called the meeting Tuesday after the 23-year-old Cuban
defector made two mistakes on the basepaths during the Dodgers' season-opening,
two-game trip to Australia last weekend - mistakes that made headlines in the
media.

"I thought it was a really good meeting, actually," Mattingly said. "But again,
it's one of those things that if guys want to talk about it, they can. I don't
think it's something we need to talk about. ... We're just looking to get better
all the time."

BASKETBALL: The Philadelphia 76ers tied the NBA record for futility with their
26th straight loss, falling 120-98 to a Houston Rockets team led by James
Harden's triple-double.

Philadelphia matched the 2010-11 Cleveland Cavaliers for the NBA's worst skid
and can set the record at home against Detroit on Saturday.

The Sixers haven't won since Jan. 29 and are two games from going winless in two
straight months. There was very little visible emotion as the final seconds
ticked away and the players slowly made their way off the court.

Harden had 26 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists in three quarters for his
second career triple-double as Houston picked up its fifth straight victory.

· Syracuse freshman point guard Tyler Ennis is entering the NBA draft.

Ennis made the announcement in an email from the university.

Ennis finished second on the Orange in scoring at 12.9 points per game and
averaged 5.5 assists to go with 1.7 turnovers, one of the top assist-to-turnover
marks in the nation.

FOOTBALL: Patriots nose tackle Vince Wilfork says he's closer to achieving his
goal of finishing his career with New England.

The 10-year veteran who missed most of last season with a torn Achilles' tendon
has tweeted that he looks forward to returning to football and helping his team
have a chance to win a Super Bowl.

· Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay had $29,000 in cash and bottles of
prescription drugs in his vehicle when he was arrested on suspicion of
intoxicated driving and other charges, according to the arrest report.

The cash was in Irsay's wallet, metal briefcase and two laundry bags. The
briefcase and bags, which were on the front passenger-side floor, also contained
bottles of pills of various colors, including orange, green and white ones, the
police report states.

· Johnny Manziel's NFL pro day had a former president, lots of swag, a Drake
soundtrack and even some football, too.

The 2012 Heisman Trophy winner threw for 75 officials from 30 teams on the Texas
A&M campus.

He also had some special guests, as former President George H.W. Bush and wife
Barbara - and her two dogs - rolled into the facility on golf carts about 10
minutes into the workout.

The always flashy Manziel trotted into the facility with his receivers as a tune
by his buddy Drake blasted through the building. He wore camouflage shorts, a
black Nike jersey with his white No. 2 and caused a stir by wearing shoulder
pads and a helmet.

He threw about 65 passes to six receivers, including A&M teammate Mike Evans,
who like Manziel is expected to be a first round pick in the May draft. Only two
passes weren't caught and Evans grabbed a third long pass out of bounds.

· Running back Knowshon Moreno has agreed to terms on a one-year contract with
Miami Dolphins, and they hope he'll enliven a ground game that ranked 26th in
the NFL last season.

Moreno, a five-year veteran, had his best season in 2013 when he rushed for
1,038 yards, caught 60 passes and scored 13 touchdowns playing with Peyton
Manning and the Denver Broncos. He ranked fifth in the NFL with 1,586 yards from
scrimmage, and tied for fourth with 10 rushing touchdowns.

GOLF: Long after the fog cleared at TPC San Antonio, Phil Mickelson remained
shrouded in an increasingly alarming funk with the Masters two weeks away.

Mickelson shot a 5-over 77 in the Texas Open to fall nine strokes back during
the suspended first round. The 77 was Lefty's highest score since a 78 in August
in the PGA Championship.

Pat Perez and Danny Lee shot 4-under 68 to share the clubhouse lead and Andrew
Loupe was 4 under with seven holes to play when darkness forced the suspension
of play.

· Paula Creamer easily overcame tricky morning wind conditions in the Kia
Classic for a share of the first-round lead with Mariajo Uribe.

Creamer and Uribe shot 5-under 67 at Aviara to finish a stroke ahead of Cristie
Kerr, Shanshan Feng, Jodi Ewart Shadoff and Mi Hyang Lee.

TENNIS: Serena Williams beat Maria Sharapova for the 15th consecutive time,
rallying in both sets to win 6-4, 6-3 in the Sony Open semifinals.

Rafael Nadal advanced to the semifinals by hitting a flurry of forehand winners
down the stretch to beat Milos Raonic 4-6, 6-2, 6-4.

On Saturday, the No. 1-ranked Williams will try for a record seventh Key
Biscayne title against No. 2 Li Na, who overcame 40 unforced errors to beat
Dominika Cibulkova 7-5, 2-6, 6-3. Williams is 10-1 against Li.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: United Way of Greater Los Angeles


                          LAST UPDATED: March 30, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000 - 2,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way of Greater Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

Former sheriff s deputy arrested in Santa Fe Springs for distributing child
pornography

BYLINE: Jason Henry

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


The Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children taskforce arrested a
former sheriff s deputy at his Santa Fe Springs home Wednesday for allegedly
sharing child pornography over the internet.

Officers from the taskforce took Lorne Reed, 32, of Santa Fe Springs, into
custody for distribution of child pornography after searching his home following
a five month investigation. Detectives began looking into Reed in April after a
proactive search discovered some of the material he was allegedly sharing.

A Facebook profile for Reed listed LASD as his current job, he previously was in
the U.S. Marine Corps. The profile indicated he attended Rio Hondo College after
going to high school in Danville, Ill. His profile picture, his education
information and his former job at the sheriff s department were all removed
later in the evening.

A spokesperson for the sheriff s department could not confirm Reed s past
employment Wednesday.

Reed was with his two children at the time of the search, according to the Los
Angeles Police Department.

The Department of Children and Family Services took the two children into
protective custody.

Reed is being held at the Metropolitan Jail Division and his bail was set at
$20,000.

The Los Angeles Regional Internet Crimes Against Children taskforce is made up
of 62 federal and local agencies including Homeland Security and the Whittier
Police Department.

Anyone with information about the inappropriate touching of a child or child
pornography should contact their local law enforcement agency or call the
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children at 800-843-5678.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      December 19, 2014 Friday 6:33 PM GMT

Arson to blame for massive fire that destroyed high rise in Los Angeles;
Federal investigators confirm suspicions that the blaze was intentionally set
Damage to the almost-finished complex will cost an estimated $20m to $30m In
pictures: explosive Los Angeles apartment fire

BYLINE: Rory Carroll in Los Angeles

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


Federal investigators have blamed arson for a massive fire that destroyed a
partially built apartment complex in downtown Los Angeles last week.

A hunt is now under way for those who apparently used an incendiary device to
obliterate the controversial seven-storey, fortress-style Da Vinci structure.

The December 8 blaze produced apocalyptic images as 250 firefighters battled to
stop it spreading onto the 110 freeway and neighbouring buildings.

"Investigators recovered sufficient evidence to eliminate all known potential
accidental causes and determine the fire was intentionally set," the LA fire
department and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) said in
a joint statement late on Thursday.

Robert Nelson, head of the LA fire department's Arson and Counter-Terrorism
Section, said the investigation was big and complex. "Arson is a serious crime
and we will use all of our available resources to arrest and prosecute any
individuals involved in any arson fire in Los Angeles," he said.

Carlos Canino, the ATF special agent in charge, said his agency would work with
state and city officials to find the perpetrators. "The work at the crime scene
is finished, however our investigation is not over."

The blaze reduced the almost-finished complex to bare concrete stairwells and
smouldering metal, causing an estimated $20m to $30m in damage. The heat melted
signs on the approach to two freeways, blowing out windows and setting off
sprinklers in nearby public buildings.

The arson ruling, first reported by the LA Times, confirmed suspicion that the
fire was intentional. It started at night and spread very swiftly. Two thirds of
the 526-unit structure was reportedly engulfed when the fire was first reported
at 1.09am.

An additional reason for suspicion: many people hated the project.

The developer, Geoffrey Palmer, dismayed some neighbourhood activists, officials
and other critics by siting the building so close to noise and pollution from
the freeway, creating a faux Italianate aesthetic and planning an elevated
bridge so residents could avoid homeless people on the streets.

"We can't say we feel too sad about it going up in spectacular flames," said the
real estate website Curbed LA, which usually welcomes developments.

Palmer has made a fortune building numerous "Renaissance collection" apartment
complexes over the past 15 years. He often builds on relatively cheap land next
to freeways and builds dense yet high-rent, luxury apartments.

The LA Times' leading columnist, Steve Lopez, has called them "Death Star
monstrosities". Another local architecture critic, Adrian Glick Kubler, dubbed
them "vacuums designed to suck the life out of a neighborhood that has worked so
hard to become lively in the past decade".

Supporters credit the Beverly Hills-based entrepreneur with easing a shortage of
rental accommodation and helping to revive downtown, a formerly bleak, depressed
area undergoing dramatic gentrification. The Frank Gehry-designed Walt Disney
concert hall has become the flagship of renewed cultural vibrancy.

On Monday, Palmer issued a statement saying that regardless of the fire the
northern section of the Da Vinci development would open next year. "Though we
have temporarily lost Building B, we will be opening Building A across the
street at the end of January to those families looking forward to occupying
their new homes."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kenji Machida


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kenji Machida
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Margaret Levy


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Margaret Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregory B. Wood


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory B. Wood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Andrew D. Patterson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew D. Patterson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William J. Bogaard


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William J. Bogaard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Robin E. Harvey and Mitchell B. Cohen


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin E. Harvey and Mitchell B. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                    DONOR: Morrison and Foerster Foundation


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Morrison and Foerster Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Douglas Wilson Otto


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Douglas Wilson Otto
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Ralph B. Perry III


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph B. Perry III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             111 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Avril D. Love


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avril D. Love
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael Allderdice


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mike Switzer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mike Switzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Norman L. Epstein


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Norman L. Epstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Alan B. Clark


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan B. Clark
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                    DONOR: Richard C. and Susan K. Davidoff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard C. and Susan K. Davidoff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Teresa A. Beaudet


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Teresa A. Beaudet
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Deborah A. Ventura


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah A. Ventura
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Matthew T. Heartney


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew T. Heartney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Cheryl R. Avirom


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cheryl R. Avirom
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kaye Scholer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kaye Scholer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda D. Barker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda D. Barker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Martha B. Jordan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martha B. Jordan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Howard M. Privette


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard M. Privette
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Laurence R. Goldman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laurence R. Goldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles A. Gessler


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Gessler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Victor W. Santochi


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Victor W. Santochi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: Larry and Bobbie Liebenbaum


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry and Bobbie Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Bernard and Katherine Millard


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bernard and Katherine Millard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Neda Ganjeh-Tabe


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Neda Ganjeh-Tabe
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Bruce R. Lederman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bruce R. Lederman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Kevin J. Kensik


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin J. Kensik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Scott Colebank


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scott Colebank
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Barbara Kort


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barbara Kort
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: Larry and Bobbie Liebenbaum


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry and Bobbie Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Meryl K. Chae


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Meryl K. Chae
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Charles A. Collier, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Collier, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Miriam Reisman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Miriam Reisman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda L. Curtis


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda L. Curtis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Sharon Cohn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon Cohn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Howard D. Pilch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard D. Pilch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                 DONOR: Susan Steinhauser and Daniel Greenberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Steinhauser and Daniel Greenberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sheryl E. Stein


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheryl E. Stein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Roy H. Aaron


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roy H. Aaron
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ronnie C. Baker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronnie C. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Nancy Knupfer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nancy Knupfer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc L. Sallus


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc L. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: TSG Reporting, Inc


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TSG Reporting, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald M. Sallus


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald M. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                 DONOR: Lacba Labor and Employment Law Section


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lacba Labor and Employment Law Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hon. Kenji Machida


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Kenji Machida
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William J. Bogaard


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William J. Bogaard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura W. Brill


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura W. Brill
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Shirley and Ralph Shapiro


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Shirley and Ralph Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Gina Browne


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gina Browne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: James R. Birnberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Birnberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robin C. Huggins


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin C. Huggins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David K. Robinson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David K. Robinson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick F. Milne


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick F. Milne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: R. Gerald Markle Memorial Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  R. Gerald Markle Memorial Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: John H. Brinsley Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John H. Brinsley Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                 DONOR: Roderick W. Leonard Memorial Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roderick W. Leonard Memorial Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                    DONOR: Joseph Taback Memorial Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph Taback Memorial Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Donald P. Baker Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Roy H. Aaron Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roy H. Aaron Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                    DONOR: Joseph A. Ball Memorial Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph A. Ball Memorial Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Charles R. English Memorial Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles R. English Memorial Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                 DONOR: Vincent M. Townsend Memorial Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: December 4, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Vincent M. Townsend Memorial Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                    RECIPIENT: Los Angeles Police Foundation
                                DONOR: Anonymous


                          LAST UPDATED: July 29, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2009

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles Police Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-4700442
URL:  http://lapolicefoundation.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90086
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anonymous
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Hutto Patterson Charitable Foundation


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hutto Patterson Charitable Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Neal S. Millard


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Neal S. Millard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Harry L. Hathaway


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harry L. Hathaway
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Susan Skelding Couig


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Skelding Couig
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Todd F. Nevell


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Todd F. Nevell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Justin Walcott


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justin Walcott
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Elizabeth M. Calciano


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elizabeth M. Calciano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Robert S. Gerstein


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert S. Gerstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sandra R. King


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sandra R. King
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Arthur F. Silbergeld


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arthur F. Silbergeld
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Roxanne M. Wilson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roxanne M. Wilson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
             DONOR: American Corporate Counsel Association-Southern
                               California Chapter


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  American Corporate Counsel Association-Southern California Chapter
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Hon. Richard A. and Ruth J. Lavine


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Richard A. and Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Roy H. Aaron


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roy H. Aaron
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Knox M. Cologne III


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Knox M. Cologne III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Robin Meadow


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin Meadow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Susan R. Stockel


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan R. Stockel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                DONOR: Eric A. Webber and Gerard C. Kraaijeveld


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eric A. Webber and Gerard C. Kraaijeveld
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Alan B. Clark


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan B. Clark
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Philip G. Grant


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Philip G. Grant
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Henry J. Josefsberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry J. Josefsberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Tomas R. Lopez


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tomas R. Lopez
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Melanie Hanson Sartoris


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Melanie Hanson Sartoris
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Caroline C. Vincent


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Caroline C. Vincent
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: Hutto Patterson Charitable


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hutto Patterson Charitable
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ralph J. Shapiro


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph J. Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David E. Gordon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David E. Gordon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Gretchen M. Nelson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gretchen M. Nelson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rachel M. Capoccia


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rachel M. Capoccia
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Steven A. Marenberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Steven A. Marenberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Emma Luevano


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Emma Luevano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: A. Patricia Ursea


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  A. Patricia Ursea
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John L. Carlton


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John L. Carlton
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ethan P. Greene


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ethan P. Greene
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edward A. Landry


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edward A. Landry
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Paul D. Supnik


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul D. Supnik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Frederick L. McKnight


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Frederick L. McKnight
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donald P. Baker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edward A. Landry


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edward A. Landry
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ralph B. Perry


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph B. Perry
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Margaret P. Stevens


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Margaret P. Stevens
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Henry J. Josefsberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry J. Josefsberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Paul D. Supnik


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul D. Supnik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Toby J. Rothschild


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Toby J. Rothschild
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia A. Van Dyke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia A. Van Dyke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hyman J. Bradofsky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hyman J. Bradofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gerald Chaleff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David E. Gordon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David E. Gordon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Tomas R. Lopez


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tomas R. Lopez
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: John E. Hatherley


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John E. Hatherley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lester O. Brown


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lester O. Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michele E. Flurer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michele E. Flurer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Nancy A. Kaiser


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nancy A. Kaiser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Jonathan M. Brandler


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jonathan M. Brandler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David S. Eisen


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Eisen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: James W. Bilderback II


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James W. Bilderback II
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patricia Phillips


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Phillips
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donna J. Zenor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donna J. Zenor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: David J. Pasternak


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David J. Pasternak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Francis M. Wheat


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Francis M. Wheat
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Allison N. Shue


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allison N. Shue
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Princeton H. Kim


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Princeton H. Kim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Francis M. Wheat


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Francis M. Wheat
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Brad D. Brian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brad D. Brian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Sheldon H. Sloan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheldon H. Sloan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Hutto Patterson Charitable Foundation


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hutto Patterson Charitable Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert E. Carlson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert E. Carlson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Danette E. Meyers


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Danette E. Meyers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Amy J. Fink


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Amy J. Fink
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Marshall B. Grossman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marshall B. Grossman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Christopher P. Wazzan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Christopher P. Wazzan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John J. Quinn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Quinn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Henry J. Josefsberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry J. Josefsberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald C. Mitchell


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C. Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: City National Bank


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  City National Bank
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: Larry and Bobbie Liebenbaum


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry and Bobbie Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Toby J. Rothschild


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Toby J. Rothschild
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Ronald L. Johnston


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronald L. Johnston
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly H. Clancy


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly H. Clancy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Seth D. Levy


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth D. Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David W. Swift


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Swift
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Cori McGraw


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cori McGraw
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                DONOR: Kim Tung


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kim Tung
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: John D. Vandevelde


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Vandevelde
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Judy A. Kim


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judy A. Kim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Linda Wight Mazur


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Wight Mazur
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Barry E. Shanley


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barry E. Shanley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Earl P. Willens


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Earl P. Willens
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William Clark Brown


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William Clark Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Sheldon H. Sloan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheldon H. Sloan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Gretchen M. Nelson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gretchen M. Nelson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: John W. Alden, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John W. Alden, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John L. Carlton


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John L. Carlton
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Mark T. Gillett


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark T. Gillett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David B. Babbe


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David B. Babbe
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Elizabeth M. Calciano


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elizabeth M. Calciano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Robert S. Gerstein


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert S. Gerstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hon. Robert N. Kwan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Robert N. Kwan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Arthur D. Silbergeld


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arthur D. Silbergeld
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Sarah Heck Griffin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sarah Heck Griffin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Robin Meadow


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin Meadow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hyman J. Bradofsky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hyman J. Bradofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gerald Chaleff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edith R. Matthai


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edith R. Matthai
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Susan R. Stockel


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan R. Stockel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Harry L. Hathaway


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harry L. Hathaway
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Luci-Ellen M. Chun


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Luci-Ellen M. Chun
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Glen B. Collyer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Glen B. Collyer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John F. O'Hara


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John F. O'Hara
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Charles S. Vogel


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Charles S. Vogel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. William P. Gray


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. William P. Gray
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Roy H. Aaron


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roy H. Aaron
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Glen B. Collyer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Glen B. Collyer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Fred L. Leydorf


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fred L. Leydorf
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: John D. Vandevelde


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Vandevelde
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Van C. Durrer II


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Van C. Durrer II
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Bonita Moore


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bonita Moore
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Gavin Hachiya Wasserman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gavin Hachiya Wasserman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Cameron W. Fox


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cameron W. Fox
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian D. Huben


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian D. Huben
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Alan B. Clark


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan B. Clark
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Mark T. Gillett


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark T. Gillett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: John W. Alden, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John W. Alden, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Prof. Christopher D. Cameron


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Prof. Christopher D. Cameron
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Knox M. Cologne III


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Knox M. Cologne III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Charles S. Vogel


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Charles S. Vogel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jordan S. Cohen


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jordan S. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rebecca A. Delfino


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rebecca A. Delfino
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jennifer F. Novak


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jennifer F. Novak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Ruth D. Kahn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth D. Kahn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Peter Schnaitman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Peter Schnaitman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Richard Walch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Walch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marcia L. Kraft


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marcia L. Kraft
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Pansky and Markle


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pansky and Markle
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ross E. Stromberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ross E. Stromberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael C. Zellers


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael C. Zellers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald C. Mitchell


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C. Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Gavin Miller


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gavin Miller
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Hussey


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Hussey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Neal S. Millard


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Neal S. Millard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Suzanne V. Wilson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Suzanne V. Wilson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Helen I. Bendix


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Helen I. Bendix
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. H. Walter Croskey


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. H. Walter Croskey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ethan P. Greene


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ethan P. Greene
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Donald A. Daucher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald A. Daucher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Joshua L. Sternberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joshua L. Sternberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mark Kachner


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark Kachner
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Wesley T. Shih


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wesley T. Shih
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Maxwell M. Blecher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Maxwell M. Blecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jack I. Esensten


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jack I. Esensten
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                     DONOR: Hon. Samantha Phillips Jessner


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Samantha Phillips Jessner
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Andra Greene


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andra Greene
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea B. Liebenbaum


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea B. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Pauline Y. Robins


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pauline Y. Robins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Wendy A. Tucker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wendy A. Tucker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: John Carson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John Carson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Robin Meadow


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin Meadow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John J. Quinn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Quinn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John S. Welch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John S. Welch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: David J. Pasternak


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David J. Pasternak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Francis M. Wheat


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Francis M. Wheat
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sandeep Baweja


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sandeep Baweja
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Andres C. Hurwitz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andres C. Hurwitz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lorin D. Snyder


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lorin D. Snyder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Ralph B. Perry III


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph B. Perry III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Katessa Charles Davis


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Katessa Charles Davis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lois M. Jacobs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lois M. Jacobs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael C. Zellers


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael C. Zellers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc M. Seltzer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc M. Seltzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas V. Girardi


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas V. Girardi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donald P. Baker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
             DONOR: American Corporate Counsel Association-Southern
                               California Chapter


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 8,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  American Corporate Counsel Association-Southern California Chapter
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Joseph R. Austin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph R. Austin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea Sheridan Ordin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Sheridan Ordin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John S. Welch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John S. Welch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Raphael and Joan Cotkin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Raphael and Joan Cotkin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Brad D. Brian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brad D. Brian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jack I. Esensten


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jack I. Esensten
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Shirley M. Hufstedler


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Shirley M. Hufstedler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Maxwell M. Blecher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Maxwell M. Blecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Danette E. Meyers


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Danette E. Meyers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Vincent W. Jones


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Vincent W. Jones
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Hussey


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Hussey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Katessa Charles Davis


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Katessa Charles Davis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Stephen R. English


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stephen R. English
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Robert N. Kwan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert N. Kwan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John F. O'Hara


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John F. O'Hara
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Melissa A. Dalziel


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Melissa A. Dalziel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Janice R. Hugener


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Janice R. Hugener
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Martin H. Webster


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martin H. Webster
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Barbara J. Bacon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barbara J. Bacon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joseph T. Hahn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph T. Hahn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Andrea Schoor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Schoor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Helen I. Bendix


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Helen I. Bendix
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: David J. Pasternak


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David J. Pasternak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Eric A. Webber


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eric A. Webber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Steven A. Freeman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Steven A. Freeman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David C. Reamer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David C. Reamer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: James W. Gilliam, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James W. Gilliam, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Andrea Schoor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Schoor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael H. Bierman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael H. Bierman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Grace M. Danziger


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grace M. Danziger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Frederick L. McKnight


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Frederick L. McKnight
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Richard Walch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Walch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Robert N. Kwan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert N. Kwan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Barbara W. Ravitz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barbara W. Ravitz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Paul D. Supnik


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul D. Supnik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donald P. Baker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles R. English


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles R. English
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Leonard S. Janofsky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Leonard S. Janofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert S. Warren


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert S. Warren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: George F. Bird, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  George F. Bird, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David S. Eisen


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Eisen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Denise Howell


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Denise Howell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marcia L. Kraft


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marcia L. Kraft
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Linda Wight Mazur


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Wight Mazur
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Barry E. Shanley


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barry E. Shanley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Roxanne M. Wilson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roxanne M. Wilson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian K. Condon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian K. Condon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Harry L. Hathaway


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harry L. Hathaway
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James C. Martin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James C. Martin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald C. Mitchell


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C. Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Roy H. Aaron


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roy H. Aaron
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael A. Tomasulo


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael A. Tomasulo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert E. Carlson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert E. Carlson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Stephen R. English


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stephen R. English
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Vincent W. Jones


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Vincent W. Jones
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John F. O'Hara


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John F. O'Hara
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Martin H. Webster


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martin H. Webster
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jordan S. Cohen


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jordan S. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Maxwell M. Blecher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Maxwell M. Blecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jeffrey W. Erdman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeffrey W. Erdman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian D. Huben


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian D. Huben
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Miriam A. Krinsky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Miriam A. Krinsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Frederick L. McKnight


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Frederick L. McKnight
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Arthur F. Silbergeld


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arthur F. Silbergeld
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             480 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hyman J. Bradofsky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hyman J. Bradofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Joseph R. Austin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph R. Austin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Donald A. Daucher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald A. Daucher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edith R. Matthai


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edith R. Matthai
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patricia Phillips


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Phillips
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Martin H. Webster


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martin H. Webster
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Richard K. Smith, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard K. Smith, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Ritu M. Hasan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ritu M. Hasan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Michelle Inouye Schultz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michelle Inouye Schultz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: George F. Bird, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  George F. Bird, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Brian L. Davidoff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian L. Davidoff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lois M. Jacobs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lois M. Jacobs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Ann I. Park


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ann I. Park
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Roxanne M. Wilson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roxanne M. Wilson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edward A. Landry


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edward A. Landry
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jerrold B. Reilly


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jerrold B. Reilly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John S. Welch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John S. Welch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Randee Barak


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Randee Barak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ralph J. Shapiro


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph J. Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             501 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             502 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles R. English


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles R. English
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             503 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Leonard S. Janofsky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Leonard S. Janofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             504 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea Sheridan Ordin


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Sheridan Ordin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             505 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Lara Drino Schwartz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lara Drino Schwartz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael H. Bierman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael H. Bierman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             507 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Jacqueline J. Harding


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jacqueline J. Harding
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             508 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             509 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Brian L. Davidoff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian L. Davidoff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             510 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David E. Gordon


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David E. Gordon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             511 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             512 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Gabrielle Harner Brumbach


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gabrielle Harner Brumbach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             513 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Seth D. Levy


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth D. Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             514 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John J. Quinn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Quinn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             515 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert E. Carlson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert E. Carlson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             516 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jack I. Esensten


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jack I. Esensten
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             517 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Ruth D. Kahn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth D. Kahn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             518 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             519 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Peter Schnaitman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Peter Schnaitman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             520 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Caroline C. Vincent


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Caroline C. Vincent
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             521 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 500

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             522 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Brad D. Brian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2004

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brad D. Brian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             523 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. William P. Gray


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. William P. Gray
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             524 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Fred L. Leydorf


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fred L. Leydorf
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             525 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia D. Phillips


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia D. Phillips
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             526 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donna J. Zenor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donna J. Zenor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             527 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Bruce R. Lederman


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bruce R. Lederman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             528 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William Clark Brown


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William Clark Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             529 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             530 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lois M. Jacobs


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2006

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lois M. Jacobs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014
