
                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

Glitch takes sheriff's crime maps offline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 226 words


LOS ANGELES COUNTY - Online public crime information from the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department is temporarily unavailable as the agency switches to a new
crime reporting software, officials said.

For more than a year, the Sheriff's Department has provided limited information
about the type, time and locations of crimes reported to the department via the
website Crimereports.com . Several other Los Angeles County agencies, including
the Baldwin Park, Covina and Whittier police, also provide crime information to
the public via Crimereports.com .

The department has elected to start using a new system, effective this weekend,
officials said, and the process has had the unintended consequence of no online
crime information being posted on Crimereports.com since April 18.

"We don't know what the glitch was, but we're going to get it fixed," Los
Angeles County sheriff's Capt. Michael Parker said.

Starting this weekend, Parker said, sheriff's officials will post crime data on
the website Crimemapping.com , which is already used by agencies including
Pasadena, Los Angeles, Arcadia and San Gabriel police.

Once in place, Crimemapping.com will retroactively pull all crime data from the
previous six months

The switch is designed to provide better information to the public at a reduced
cost to the Sheriff's Department, Parker said.

brian.day@sgvn.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Film follows prosecutors who pursue sex crimes;
Television documentary offers shop talk on the difficulties of rape cases

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL CIEPLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

ABSTRACT

Detectives, prosecutors and others who work with sexual crimes showed up at the
Los Angeles Police Department for a screening of the HBO documentary "Sex Cimes
Unit."

FULL TEXT

What do sex crimes investigators do when they're not investigating sex crimes?
Among other things, they watch movies about sex crimes investigators.

On Friday, about three dozen detectives, prosecutors and others who pursue
sexual criminals showed up at the Los Angeles Police Department's Deaton
Auditorium for a screening of the HBO documentary ''Sex Crimes Unit.'' Directed
and produced by Lisa Jackson, the documentary is about the New York prosecutors
who pursue sex crimes under Lisa Friel of the Manhattan district attorney's
office.

The unit has been in the news lately with its sexual assault case against
Dominique Strauss-Kahn. But the documentary, which begins running Monday, on HBO
is an overall primer on the crime of rape and the extreme difficulty involved
with its prosecution.

Ms. Friel, Ms. Jackson and Natasha Alexenko, a rape victim who figures
prominently in the film, were on hand to answer questions from the Los Angeles
crowd, which included a goodly sprinkling of cop moustaches and men in brown
suits, along with one prominent figure, the Los Angeles County district
attorney, Steve Cooley. The documentary takes a close look at a mostly female
group of prosecutors and assistants who clearly take visceral joy in their
victories. Cheers echo, with high-fives, after they win a big court verdict.

But Mr. Cooley went straight for the technical stuff. Why don't New York courts
allow a record of rape convictions into evidence, he wanted to know.

''We have to ask the judge'' and show that it is directly relevant to a
perpetrator's method of operation, not just that he has a record, Ms. Friel
said. Mr. Cooley seemed fascinated. By and large, a good time was had by all.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              3 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Sheriff's online crime data unavailable as department switches software

BYLINE: By Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 337 words


LOS ANGELES COUNTY - Online public crime information from the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department is temporarily unavailable as the agency switches to a new
crime reporting software, officials said.

For more than a year, the sheriff's department has provided limited information
about the type, time and locations of crimes reported to the department via the
website Crimereports.com. Several other Los Angeles County agencies, including
the Baldwin Park, Covina and Whittier police, also provide crime information to
the public via Crimereports.com.

The department has elected to start using a new system, effective this weekend,
officials said, and the process has had the unintended consequence of no online
crime information being posted on Crimereports.com since April 18.

"We don't know what the glitch was, but we're going to get it fixed," Los
Angeles County sheriff's Capt. Michael Parker said.

"It was supposed to be seamless," Parker added of the transition between crime
reporting systems.

The sheriff's department has paid for services from Crimereports.com through
Saturday, Parker said, so it was unclear why crime data is no longer being
updated. Once informed of the issue, authorities began looking into it.

Starting this weekend, Parker said, sheriff's officials will post crime data on
the website Crimemapping.com, which is already used by agencies including
Pasadena, Los Angeles, Arcadia and Sab Gabriel police.

When sheriff's data begins to show up on Crimemapping.com this weekend, Parker
said, it will likely take a week or two to work out all the bugs.

"We expect glitches, because that's what happens when you do a big transition,"
he said.

Once in place, Crimamapping.com will retroactively pull all crime data from the
previous six months

The switch is designed to provide better information to the public at a reduced
cost to the sheriff's department, Parker said.

"We have changed systems because we found a system that was less expensive and
was able to provide more information to public," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

Document: Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department releases crime statistics

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 50 words


Related story: Sheriff's stats indicate county-wide decrease in crime

LOS ANGELES COUNTY - Crime statistics released by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department Friday show that both violent and property crime is down
throughout the county, with some significant decreases in the San Gabriel
Valley.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shop Talk for Prosecutors in Sex Crimes Cases

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words


LOS ANGELES - What do sex crimes investigators do when they're not investigating
sex crimes? Among other things, they watch movies about sex crimes
investigators.

On Friday, about three dozen detectives, prosecutors and others who pursue
sexual criminals showed up at the Los Angeles Police Department's Deaton
Auditorium for a screening of the HBO documentary ''Sex Crimes Unit.''

Directed and produced by Lisa Jackson, the film is about the New York
prosecutors who pursue sex crimes under Lisa Friel of the Manhattan district
attorney's office.

The unit has been in the news lately with its sexual assault case against
Dominique Strauss-Kahn. But the documentary, which begins running Monday, is an
overall primer on the crime of rape and the extreme difficulty involved with its
prosecution.

Ms. Friel, Ms. Jackson and Natasha Alexenko, a rape victim who figures
prominently in the film, were on hand to answer questions from the Los Angeles
crowd, which included a goodly sprinkling of cop moustaches and men in brown
suits, along with one prominent figure, the Los Angeles County district
attorney, Steve Cooley.The documentary takes a close look at a mostly female
group of prosecutors and assistants who clearly take visceral joy in their
victories. ''Yaaaay!'' they tell each other, one after another, with high-fives,
after winning a big court verdict.

But Mr. Cooley went straight for the technical stuff. Why don't New York courts
allow a record of rape convictions into evidence, he wanted to know.

''We have to ask the judge,'' and show that it is directly relevant to a
perpetrator's method of operation, not just that he has a record, Ms. Friel
said. Mr. Cooley seemed fascinated. By and large, a good time was had by all.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Manhattan prosecutors Jennifer Sculco, left, and Coleen
Balbert in the HBO documentary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              6 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday

Public safety funding first

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 252 words


LOS Angeles is now one of the safest big cities in the nation. Once derided as
the nation's capital of gang violence and imagined as a violent metropolis of
drive-by shootings and rampant crime, L.A. has managed a dramatic turnaround.

According to statistics compiled by the Los Angeles Police Department, overall
crime is down. But even more exciting is the big drop in the city's murder rate.
In 2010, Los Angeles reported the lowest number of homicides since 1967 - when
the city had 30 percent fewer people. There were 297 murders last year, way down
from a peak of 1,092 killings in 1992.

L.A. is certainly not alone. Crime rates have significantly dropped in other
major cities, such San Diego, Chicago and Detroit. Nobody can say for sure why
crime is on the decline, but modern policing strategies, technological advances
like DNA analysis and tougher sentencing laws have likely played a role.

And in Los Angeles, it's very likely that the remaking of the LAPD through
reform and increased police hiring have played a role in the decline in crime.
The LAPD is a larger, more efficient, modern and community-minded police agency
than it was in the 1990s. That's why there is so much at stake as Los Angeles
and California struggle with a budget crisis that will further squeeze public
safety dollars and force the public to make hard choices.

As city leaders strive to balance the budget in coming months, public safety,
crime fighting and crime prevention should be the last services cut.

Daily News, Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

PUBLIC FORUM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 972 words


Job numbers are misleading

"California adds 26,000 jobs in October" (Nov. 19).

This article had a bunch of conflicting numbers, like the state added 26,000
jobs but the county added 31,600. How is that possible? It also said that the
state had 69,000 new claims for unemployment but that this job increase in L.A.
County was "remarkable." But if you read towards the end of the article you see
that of the 31,600 new jobs in the county, 13,800 were government sector jobs.
Don't we have enough government unionized workers in the county already? How can
that be good news?

- Gene Wiehe, Torrance

Getting a bad rap

The Occupy L.A movement has been productive in its solidarity, purpose and
peacefulness. It is in jeopardy due to the freeloaders and the people who
disregard the rules of peaceful gathering. The movement has an abundance of
energy and purpose here and throughout the country. The Los Angeles Occupy
protesters are doing a great job to keep the momentum going for their cause. To
see this movement get a bad rap because of a few inconsiderate and ungracious
people will be unfair.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

Inaccurate gun rhetoric

Re "Crime reduction" (Letters, Nov. 23):

The letter writer says that gun ownership and concealed carry licenses have
caused a dramatic decline in crime. So, I looked up Texas' biggest city,
Houston, and Los Angeles on the Internet to compare crime figures. Liberal and
lefty Los Angeles has a much lower crime rate across the board. In the last 10
years, L.A.'s crime rate has dropped at a much greater rate than Houston. This
also applies to Dallas. It is imperative that we citizens search for the truth
for ourselves and not let anyone, left or right, bend the facts for their
agenda.

- Richard Allen, Lake View Terrace

Cut salaries and perks

There is no need to cut Social Security, Medi-Cal and other government programs
that are paid for by taxpayers. All one has to do is make massive cuts in salary
for government workers and out-of-control pensions. Take away the free expense
accounts, free medical and other perks. Reduce the salary for federal workers
making over $125,000 by 10 to 25 percent. Reduce waste in government, not needed
services for the handicapped and the elderly.

- Barry Gabrielson, Newbury Park

Obama 2012 campaigning?

Isn't it interesting that President Obama is finally doing something for
veterans since the 2012 election is upon us? He is so transparent.

- Francis Adams, Glendale

Occupy wants freebies

So far the various Occupy groups have demanded free post-secondary education,
free housing, free electricity, loan forgiveness, free food, free subway rides,
free child care and free Wi-Fi, to name just some of their demands. And on the
same day (Nov. 24) that columnist Tim Grobaty attacks Newt Gingrich, an Occupy
L.A. protester, Adam Adler, demanded a whole free building! "We demand the city
give us the Hall of Justice. The entire thing," he said.

From where I am sitting, Newt Gingrich hit the nail on the head and Grobaty is
living in denial.

- Keith John Schoose, Long Beach

Not about skin color

Re "Richardson ethics defense falls short" (Editorial, Nov. 25)

Congresswoman Laura Richardson is still under investigation for unethical
behavior. She is claiming she is being singled out because she is a woman and
she is black. Is she implying that it does not matter what a person is accused
of, but rather there must be a reason why the accused is being singled out?

It is rather ironic that she claims she is being singled out because of her skin
color, while at the same time she is a member of a congressional group (the
Congressional Black Caucus) whose criteria for acceptance is the color of one's
skin.

Voters demand good ethical behavior by all our representatives, no matter their
gender or color.

- Taylor Ramsey, Lakewood

Obama's hypocrisy

Now that the supercommittee has failed in its attempt to reduce the deficit and
the Balanced Budget Amendment has been soundly defeated by the Democrats it
seems like the following quote is more pertinent now than ever: "The fact that
we are here today to debate raising America's debt limit is a sign of leadership
failure. It's a sign that the government cannot pay its own bills. It's a sign
that we now depend on ongoing financial assistance from foreign countries to
finance our government's reckless fiscal policies..." This statement was uttered
by then-Sen. Barack Obama in 2006. How profound is Obama's hypocrisy after
increasing our national debt more in two and a half years than our nation did
from 1776 to 1992. Our total deficit is now nearly $15 trillion and yet he felt
justified to cast aspersions on the previous leader about rising debt and
financial dependence on foreign countries.

- Lonnie Dwinell, Lancaster

Legislator losers

Re "Check how your legislator scored on taxpayer issues" (Comment, Nov. 25):

Kudos for this article summarizing the results of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association evaluation of state Legislators. After visiting the group's website,
www.hjta.org, my long-held suspicions about my local representatives were
confirmed. Assemblywoman Bonnie Lowenthal and State Sen. Alan Lowenthal each
received a resounding "F" grade for their voting performance this past year.

Wake up! Get rid of these liberal, anti-business, "nanny-state," tax-and-spend
politicians before they can do any further harm to this state, its taxpaying
citizens, and our personal pocketbooks.

- Ralph Paul Jacob, Long Beach

First-class perks

Re "Rich flying higher than ever on airlines" (Nov. 20):

It exasperates me that travelers flying in business-class and first-class can
deduct from their income taxes most of the cost for sleeper seat and gourmet
meals. As I see it, they should be able to deduct only the basic coach fare and
personally absorb their choice for additional luxury.

- Phillip Barton, Burbank

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Sunday Territorian (Australia)

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                                  1 - Edition

Austin Powers villain jailed for life

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 131  words


LOS ANGELES: Austin Powers actor Joseph Hyungmin Son was sentenced to life in
jail yesterday.

The 40-year-old actor, best known for playing Doctor Evil's henchman Random Task
in the hit 1997 film Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery, was charged
over the 1990 gang rape of a woman.

He was found guilty on August 25 of felony torture, which carries a maximum
penalty of life without parole, the Los Angeles Times reported.

Son, also known in the field of mixed martial arts, had originally been charged
with numerous sex crimes but because of the statute of limitations on such
crimes, prosecutors instead pursued charges of torture.

He was arrested on vandalism charges 17 years after the rape and had to give a
DNA sample. His DNA was linked to the crime, the Los Angeles Times reported.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Northern Territory News (Australia)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Sydney's gun fight

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 248 words


SYDNEY: Crime gangs may be fighting it out with guns on Sydney's streets but the
city isn't a crime capital like New York or Los Angeles, NSW Police Commissioner
Andrew Scipione says.

Speaking after two shootings in western Sydney, he said it was important to
remember that gun crime trends in the state had been falling.

``This isn't a place like Los Angeles or New York, if you look at the gun
crimes, the number of homicides in those places,'' Mr Scipione said.

He cited figures showing there were 513 crimes involving any type of gun in the
year to September 2010, down from 1,128 offences in 2004.

Most events were related to drugs, personal matters or organised crime.

``My greatest concern is the propensity of organised crime to rely on the use of
a firearm to resolve an issue seems to be increasing,'' he said.

Premier Kristina Keneally said gun crime was falling and vowed police would
clamp down on bad behaviour by a small number of individuals.

``Gun violence is down, and down dramatically, as a result of our police force,
and they are not going to allow this sort of thuggish behaviour to rule again on
Sydney's streets as it did so many decades ago,'' she said.

But Opposition Leader Barry O'Farrell said the government was reciting
statistics, while people were being shot at.

``It's unreal, it doesn't reflect what's happening in western Sydney,'' Mr
O'Farrell said. Opposition police spokesman Mike Gallacher said ``there is a war
going on, a turf war going on under the surface''.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday

Sydney not crime capital

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 182  words


SYDNEY (AAP): Sydney isn't a crime capital like New York or Los Angeles, despite
a recent spike in gang-related crime, says NSW Police Commissioner Andrew
Scipione.

Speaking after a spate of shootings, he said the "violent criminals" involved in
recent shootouts represented a small percentage of the community.

It was important to remember NSW gun crime trends had been falling over the past
10 years, and when incidents did occur it was over drugs, personal matters or to
do with organised crime, he said.

There were 513 crimes involving a type of gun in the year to September 2010
compared to 1128 offences in 2004.

"This isn't a place like Los Angeles or New York, if you look at the gun crimes,
the number of homicides in those place," he told reporters on Tuesday.

But Mr Scipione said he was worried about Sydney's recent shootings.

"My greatest concern is the propensity of organised crime to rely on the use of
a firearm to resolve an issue seems to be increasing," he said, adding that
criminals were getting their hands on guns by stealing them.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Pasadena Crime Victims' Clinic to focus on victims' rights

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 205 words


PASADENA - Police are hosting a forum on victims' rights later this month.

The Crime Victims' Clinic will take place from 8:30 a.m. to noon July 9 in the
assembly room on the second floor of the Pasadena Police Department, 207 N.
Garfield Avenue, Pasadena police officials said in a written statement.

The Crime Victims' Bill of Rights, also known as Marsy's Law, was passed by
California voters in 2008 and gives victims of crime and their families 17
constitutional rights, officials said.

"The clinic on July 9 will feature a panel discussion and information on what
those rights are, the impact of Marsy's Law and how it is implemented,"
according to the police statement.

Speakers are to include Los Angeles County Supervisor Michael Antonovich, Marsy
Nicholas' mother Marcella Nicholas, Pasadena Police Chief Phillip Sanchez, Los
Angeles County Superior Court Judge Darrell Mavis, and representatives from the
Los Angeles County District Attorney's office and various victim's support
groups.

The event is being sponsored by Justice for Homicide Victims and Justice for
Murdered Children.

For more information or to RSVP for the free clinic, e-mail to jhvinfo@gmail.com
Seating is limited, so RSVPs are requested no later than July 6.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily Variety

                                 June 30, 2011

Thesp prods 'Squad'

SECTION: NEWS; FILM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 193  words


Bryan Cranston is in negotiations to join the cast of "The Gangster Squad," the
Warner Bros.-Village Roadshow period police saga opposite Sean Penn, Ryan
Gosling, Josh Brolin, Michael Pena and Anthony Mackie.

Ruben Fleischer ("Zombieland") is helming from a script by former Los Angeles
Police Dept. officer Will Beall.

Cranston would portray Max Kennard, a laconic LAPD officer from Texas who
enforces the law ambitiously. The "Breaking Bad" star recently booked a role in
Ben Affleck's hostage-rescue thriller "Argo" at Warner Bros., as Variety first
reported Tuesday.

Dan Lin and Kevin McCormick are producing through Lin Pictures and Langley Park,
respectively; Jon Silk, of Lin Pictures, is co-producing.

Project is based on the Los Angeles Times' seven-part series "Tales From the
Gangster Squad," to which Warner acquired the rights two years ago. The
articles, penned by Paul Lieberman, chronicled the LAPD's struggle with
increasing crime and corruption in the 1940s by forming the Gangster Squad to
keep East Coast organized crime figures out of Los Angeles.

Cranston, who's repped by UTA, is filming New Line's "Rock of Ages" and Sony's
"Total Recall."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: Newport police joins Internet Crimes Task Force

BYLINE: Lauren Williams, Daily Pilot, Costa Mesa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 174 words


Aug. 12--The Newport Beach Police Department has joined the Internet Crimes Task
Force partnering with Los Angeles police to address child pornography cases.

Newport Beach police joined the 13-year-old task force after the Los Angeles
Police Department approached the NBPD in July.

"By joining this task force NBPD detectives are provided with the specialized
training and resources to proactively target online predators and keep them from
victimizing children who live in this city," Sgt. Shontel Sherwood, of the
Juvenile Crimes and Sexual Assault unit, said in an email.

The task force works with statewide and local agencies in addressing "cyber
enticement" and child pornography cases, according to an NBPD news release.

--Lauren Williams

To see more of the Daily Pilot go to http://www.dailypilot.com Copyright (c)
2011, Daily Pilot, Costa Mesa, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110812-1DP-BRF-Newport-police-joins-Internet-Crimes
-Task-Force-0812-20110812

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1DP


                           Copyright 2011 Daily Pilot


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            September 9, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: Norwalk Math Tutor Accused of Sex Crimes Against 13-year-old Student

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 168 words


Sept. 09--NORWALK, Calif. -- A Norwalk math tutor has been arrested for
allegedly committing sex crimes against a 13-year-old female student and
officials are seeking additional victims.

Frank Chung, 63, was arrested at his home in La Palma Thursday afternoon on
suspicion of lewd acts with a minor. He was being held on $1 million bail.

An investigation was launched after the girl was overheard telling one of her
siblings about inappropriate sexual contacts with the suspect over several
occasions, according to Sgt Daniel Scott of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department's Special Victims Bureau.

Chung worked for the Kumon Learning Center in Norwalk for five years. He also
tutored children in Northern California for about 25 years.

Investigators believe there may be more victims.

Anyone with information on the case is asked to call the Sheriff's Special
Victims Bureau at (877) 710-LASD.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110909-5LA-BRF-Norwalk-Math-Tutor-Accused-of-Sex-Crimes
-Against-13-year-old-Student-0909-20110909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 29, 2011 Thursday

Vandalism of Same Sex Nativity Scene Called a Hate Crime

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


Dec. 29--CLAREMONT, Calif. -- A group of vandals defaced a non-traditional
Nativity scene over the weekend in front of a Claremont church and police are
calling it a hate crime.

The Nativity display features silhouettes of gay, lesbian and heterosexual
couples holding hands.

Officials at the Claremont United Methodist Church say someone knocked over the
two homosexual silhouettes and broke them sometime between 11 a.m. Saturday and
9 a.m. Sunday.

Police have labeled the vandalism a hate crime.

"Because of the content of the artwork that was damaged and the fact that it was
on a place of worship or at a church (it is labeled a hate crime)," said
Claremont police Lt. Mike Ciszek.

The church has featured its Nativity display for years. The silhouettes were
anchored into the ground, said John Zachary, the artist who created the display.

"I don't think one person could have done it," he said.

Pastor Dan Lewis said he believed the vandalism came from someone who was upset
at the church's interpretation of the Nativity.

"We don't want to invoke hate or violence," said pastor Dan Lewis.

An inter-faith vigil is planned for Thursday night in front of the Nativity
display.

Anyone with information on the vandalism is urged to contact the Claremont
Police Department.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111229-5LA-Vandalism-of-Same-Sex-Nativity-Scene-Called-a-Hate-Crime
-1229-20111229

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              17 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Looking at crime and pot in L.A.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 440 words


The RAND Corp. on Monday retracted its controversial - and inaccurate - study,
which showed that crime increased after medical marijuana dispensaries closed
and suggested that pot shops may actually deter illegal activities.

The study raised eyebrows when it was released in September. It looked at crime
reports for the 10 days before and after hundreds of dispensaries were ordered
closed by the city of Los Angeles.

That seemed a small window of time to determine a crime trend. In addition, the
study assumed all dispensaries actually closed when they were supposed to - and
many didn't.

The City Attorney's Office, which has been defending Los Angeles' medical
marijuana ordinance in court, complained the report relied on faulty assumptions
and untested measurements.

RAND heard those concerns, launched an internal review and discovered the
authors relied on a crime mapping service that did not include Los Angeles
Police Department crime data, according to RAND.

Oops. RAND is now redoing the study.

The report lives on, however, on the Internet where dozens of stories detail the
crime-reducing effects of dispensaries.

Before it was retracted, dispensary operators tried to use the study as evidence
to overturn L.A.'s dispensary regulations in court. If collectives don't attract
crime, why does the city need to curtail them?

But the report didn't sway the Los Angeles Superior Court judge and he upheld
the city's law limiting and regulating dispensaries, said Jane Usher, special
assistant to City Attorney Carmen Trutanich.

RAND's leadership called the study a "rare failure of our peer review system,"
and the nonprofit committed to posting the results of the revised study, no
matter what it concludes.

It's surprising that a respected research group would allow the release of a
study that seemed so flawed. But, then nothing involving medical marijuana
should surprise us anymore.

California's 15-year experiment with medical marijuana is full of mistakes and
confusion - many unfolding before our eyes.

Even as the city of L.A. was celebrating the Superior Court's decision to uphold
its dispensary rules, a recent appellate court decision has thrown into question
whether cities can even permit dispensaries because marijuana is illegal under
federal law.

The result, Usher said, is that many cities may end up just banning dispensaries
until the courts figure out how to reconcile California's vote to allow
marijuana for medicinal use and the federal government's prohibition on pot.

The RAND study and the question of whether pot shops create or deter crime may
ultimately be irrelevant to the fate of medical marijuana dispensaries.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Kerry Cavanaugh is a columnist for the Los Angeles Daily News. She can
be reached at kerry.cavanaugh@dailynews.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily Variety

                                 April 25, 2011

Warners packs the 'Gangster Squad'

SECTION: NEWS; Film; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 225  words


A murderer's row of leading men - Sean Penn, Ryan Gosling and Josh Brolin - are
in talks to star in Warner Bros.' "Gangster Squad."

Warner offered the roles to Penn and Gosling after greenlighting the pic, but
negotiations did not begin until now.

Ruben Fleischer is helming from a script by Will Beall. Dan Lin and Kevin
McCormick produce through Lin Pictures and Langley Park.

Pic is based on the Los Angeles Times' seven-part series "Tales From the
Gangster Squad," to which Warner acquired the rights two years ago.

The articles, penned by Paul Lieb­erman, chronicled efforts by the Los Angeles
Police Dept. to deal with increasing crime and corruption in 1940s L.A. by
forming what was dubbed the Gangster Squad in an effort to keep East Coast
organized crime figures from planting roots in the city.

Sources tell Variety that Penn has gone back and forth on whether to do the film
and at one point had passed on the project.

Warners countered with a new offer that Penn agreed to; that led the studio to
moveforward with negotiations on other roles.

Penn had also been considering the Warner Bros./Dark Castle co-production "The
Last Photograph" with Christian Bale.

Penn is repped by CAA and Hirsch Wallerstein Hayum Matlof and Fishman.

Brolin is repped by CAA.

Gosling is repped by IFA Talent Agency, Artist Management and Sloane Offer Weber
and Dern.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

L.A. crime rate looks to be on decline;
DATA: Murders down 8 percent, violent crimes down nearly 10 percent.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 489 words


Thanks to drops in violent and property crimes in the first half of 2011, the
crime rate in Los Angeles is on track to be even lower than last year's, when
overall crime hit a four-decade low, officials announced Tuesday.

Murders are down 8 percent from 160 reported in the first half of last year
compared to the 147 murders in the same period this year. The statistic is an
indication that the city can close out the year with fewer than 300 murders for
the second time in a row, said LAPD Police Chief Charlie Beck.

"We are on target again this year," Beck said. "That's a number I never thought
I'd see as a Los Angeles police officer. It's an amazing, amazing feat for the
city of Los Angeles."

The 297 murders in 2010 was the lowest number of homicides reported in L.A.
since 1966.

Violent crimes city-wide were down 9.6 percent and property crimes were down 7.3
percent, according to figures released Tuesday by the LAPD, marking the ninth
consecutive year that crime rates have fallen.

Crime in the San Fernando Valley reflected city-wide trends, with violent crime
down 13.2 percent and property crimes down 14 percent. The number of shots fired
was up slightly, at 4 percent.

The only positive gains in crimes city-wide were assaults on police officers,
with 104 attacks so far this year, up nearly 53 percent compared to the 68 at
this time last year.

"Even though the city is safer than it ever was, it's not safer for everybody,"
Beck said. "The men and women of the Los Angeles Police Department literally put
their lives and safety on the line in order to achieve this result."

Compared to crime rates in 1991 - one of the worst on record - Angelenos were
4.5 more likely then to be a violent crime victim, Beck said.

"This success doesn't just happen," Beck said. "It's the product of a city that
prioritizes safety.

"This is a success story not for the police department, but for the entire
city," Beck said.

Gang-related crimes were down 16percent, a feat Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa
credited to the city's anti-gang programs such as Summer Night Lights, which
keeps parks open until midnight to occupy children in gang territories. The
parks are patrolled by police and gang intervention specialists.

Gang activity typically accounts for about 60 percent of the city's homicides,
Beck said.

Summer Night Lights, which Villaraigosa called an "unmitigated success,"
expanded to 32 parks this year, including Sun Valley and Lanark parks.

"It's not just putting police officers on the street," Villaraigosa said.

"It's changing the culture."

Compared to 2005, when Villaraigosa took office, violent crime is down 35
percent, with murders down 41percent.

"While statistics are the numbers that represent our progress," Villaraigosa
said, "the true results are in the number of lives saved, the families that will
never experience random acts of violence, and the children that play at our
parks without fear."

cj.lin@dailynews.com

818-713-3738

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

BRIEF: Burglars Use Van as Battering Ram on Gun Store

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 167 words


Aug. 30--CERRITOS, Calif. -- Sheriff's investigators have released surveillance
video of an attempted burglary at a gun store in Cerritos.

According to investigators, the would-be burglars used a stolen van as a
battering ram in an attempt to bust their way into the Ammo Bros. guns and
ammunition store on Piuma Avenue.

But the store was heavily fortified with bars and protective casings which kept
the suspects from accessing the firearms, authorities said.

Detectives believe the crime was committed by two or three men who fled the
scene in a gray sedan and champagne-colored Ford Excursion.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact Cerritos
Station Detectives at (562) 860-0044.

You can remain anonymous by calling Crime Stoppers (800) 222-TIPS or texting the
letters TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES (274637), or using the website
http://lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110830-5LA-BRF-Burglars-Use-Van-as-Battering-Ram-on-Gun-Store-0830-20110830

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: Alleged Bieber Sexual Tryst Could Be Probed as Crime

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 207 words


Nov. 04--LOS ANGELES -- The woman who claims teen singer Justin Bieber fathered
her baby could soon be in legal trouble herself, if her story is true.

20-year-old Mariah Yeater filed a paternity suit and is seeking child support
from Bieber, who is now 17 years old.

Yeater claims she and Bieber had a brief sexual encounter after one of his
concerts at Staples Center in October 2010.

She says she gave birth a son in July, and she believes Bieber is the father,
since she did not have sex with any other men at that time.

While no crime has been reported, the LAPD could open an investigation into the
alleged incident, since Bieber was only 16 at the time. Yeater had just turned
19.

In California, it is illegal to have sex with someone under the age of 18. If
the person is more than three years older than the minor, it is a misdemeanor,
punishable by one year in jail.

Bieber denies having sex with Yeater and says he is not the child's father.

Yeater is asking Bieber to submit to a paternity test. A hearing in the case is
scheduled for December 15.

Bieber has been dating 19-year-old actress Selena Gomez since December 2010.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111104-5LA-BRF-Alleged-Bieber-Sexual-Tryst-Could-Be-Probed-as-Crime
-1104-20111104

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

PUBLIC FORUM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 721 words


Leading child actor sold film

Re "'True Grit' rides tall with $15M and No. 1 finish" (Jan. 10):

The article left an important part out regarding the movie "True Grit." Jeff
Bridges and Matt Damon, both fine actors, did their parts well but what made the
movie work was Hailee Steinfeld, the 14-year-old girl who played the female
lead. Her name was left out of the article. Without Steinfeld, "True Grit" would
have been DOA at the box office.

- RAYMOND LAMB

North Hollywood

Libraries deter future crime

Re "Safety First" (Editorial, Jan. 9):

As an L.A. city librarian, I join the Daily News in placing a high priority on
public safety, but saying more police is the only deterrent to crime is like
saying libraries only have books. Empirical evidence has shown that the most
effective way to fight crime is to prevent it, and libraries are a major
component of L.A.'s crime-prevention network.

L.A.'s 73 neighborhood libraries and the staff that serve them provide the
city's largest after-school program, offering kids many alternatives to gangs
and drugs, assisting teens in preparing for college and helping adults and
children learn to read. With libraries now closed two days and nights with more
cuts probable, there are few alternatives for the 15,000 children who visit our
libraries daily. Prioritizing public safety mustn't pit police against
libraries. The two need to be strong for L.A. to flourish and emerge safe from
these tough budget times.

- MARTIN GOMEZ

Los Angeles

The letter writer is the head librarian of the Los Angeles Public Library

No national leader in education

Re "Assault on reform" (Editorial, Jan. 7):

I appreciated and was concerned by this editorial. However, it did have one
ridiculous statement. I'd love for the Daily News to clarify. It was stated, "If
that happens, the future of education reform in California and the state's
reputation as a national leader in education is at risk." Since when, and in
whose eyes, is California a national leader in education? One reputable article
I looked at ranked California 49th in education (that's out of 50 for all you
graduates of California schools).

My guess is you'd have to go back to the '70s or '80s to be able to call
California a leader in education and keep a straight face.

- SCOTT NORTON

Valencia

Fuel production for electric cars

Re "It's Electric" (Jan. 9):

Aside from the economics of ownership of these cars being very problematic, I
question the reasoning that the all-electric car is "green" since it's wrongly
promoted to be a zero-emission vehicle.

I assumed reasonable people would understand the basics of where the required
energy comes from and how it is used in these vehicles. Now, I continue to be
amazed when no one seems to get it. It is very simple; the all-electric
automobile is fundamentally fueled by whatever fuel is used at the central power
plants. The electricity from the central power plants used to charge the
batteries on the all-electric automobile comes from fossil fuels ranging from
natural gas to coal, with coal being the most prevalent. Fuels burned at the
central power plant emit greenhouse gases and other unpleasant gases. How can
anyone have the audacity to claim the all-electric automobile is green?

- JAMES NOE

Woodland Hills

Columnist's comparison off base

Re "Arnold's sentence is a legacy of disgrace" (Doug McIntyre, Jan. 5):

Columnist Doug McIntyre's comparison of former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to
Hanoi Jane is an insult to the memory of all the young Americans who lost their
lives during the Vietnam conflict. The widely publicized photo of her posing in
the turret of a North Vietnamese anti-aircraft gun, surrounded by enemy
soldiers, was a clear example of the act of a traitor giving aid and comfort to
the enemy. Only by virtue of being the daughter of Henry Fonda (who enlisted in
the Navy during World War II) did she escape the prosecution she so richly
deserved.

- STEVEN L. SAPKIN

Encino

City workers' neglect persists

Re "Operation pothole" (Jan. 7):

What else is new? Nobody doing anything. Great picture, Daily News, of our city
workers at their best, doing nothing, with the pothole in plain view. On another
note, we need a completed signal at Brand Park on San Fernando Mission Road to
be plugged in. It's been a year. Or, are people dying part of the criteria?

- JOE PINOY LOZANO

Mission Hills

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                            January 16, 2011 Sunday

Abergil brothers arraigned in Los Angeles federal court

BYLINE:  Jerusalem Post staff; Dan Izenberg and Ben Hartman contributed to this
report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 237 words


Yitzhak and Meir Abergil were arraigned on murder, money-laundering, extortion
and drug trafficking charges along with three others in a Los Angeles federal
court on Thursday, The Los Angeles Times reported.

The five defendants, extradited from their native Israel days earlier, will
remain in custody up until their trial after being denied bond because they hold
only "limited ties to the community," according to the report.

Appearing in street clothes and shackles, Yitzhak Abergil declared, "I'm
innocent," when entering his plea. The newspaper reported that Abergil was
"laughing and yawning" during court proceedings, but composed himself when
interacting with the judge.

No date has been set for the trial, according to the report.

The defendants left Israel on a US government plane with US Marshalls in a
much-publicized and contested extradition process.

Although Meir Abergil fought the extradition tooth and nail during the judicial
proceedings in the Jerusalem District Court, his attorney Avi Amiram told The
Jerusalem Post that his client was in good spirits and "ready to face the
proceedings in the United States." Ever since the district court approved the
extradition, "he has wanted to return to the US to face the matter," the
attorney said.

The 77-page US federal indictment includes 32 charges. Yitzhak Abergil, the
leader of the crime family, will face 11 and Meir, the crime family's
money-manager, six.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: YITZHAK ABERGIL is escorted by officers at Ben-Gurion Airport
before extradition. (Credit: AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

GARDENA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 293 words


Damage claim to be filed

in shooting

Lawyers for a boy who was shot at a Los Angeles Unified School District high
school blame a lack of security for allowing the gun to be smuggled into class.

Attorneys for Trendell Gholar argued Monday that last week's shooting at Gardena
High School could have been avoided. School district officials have said the
campus didn't make daily weapons checks of students.

Attorneys say they plan to file a damage claim with the school district and will
sue if it's rejected.

The 15-year-old boy was shot in the neck when a gun that a 17-year-old classmate
allegedly brought in a backpack accidentally discharged. A 15-year-old girl shot
in the head remains hospitalized.

The district says it's reviewing the circumstances surrounding the shooting.

LOS ANGELES

Raytheon to open research facility: Looking to developing technologies for
public safety agencies, a major defense contractor announced Monday it will open
a research and testing facility in Los Angeles County that will employ up to 150
people.

Raytheon Co. is in the final stages of selecting a location for its Public
Safety Regional Technology Center, which is scheduled to open this summer. The
Raytheon Public Safety RTC will include facilities for testing and research,
training, maintenance and logistics, and customer and systems support.

LANCASTER

Serious crime drops to 15-year low: The rate of serious crime in Lancaster
dropped to a 15-year low last year, officials said Monday.

Lancaster's Part I crime rate in 2010 dipped to 298.6 crimes per 10,000
residents, the first time it has been under 300 since 1996. That represents a 34
percent drop from the rate of 449.4 in 2007. Part I crimes include homicide,
robbery, rape, assault and burglary.

- Staff and Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 27, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: "Kill All Gays" Graffiti Scrawled Outside Lancaster Business

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 157 words


June 27--LANCASTER, Calif. -- Hateful messages targeting gays were found
scrawled outside a business in Lancaster Sunday, the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department's hate crime unit said.

Spray painted messages such as "Kill All Gays Now" and "Gays Go 2 Hell" were
spray painted outside the Texas Cattle Company, located at 44206 10th Street,
between 10 p.m. Saturday and 5 a.m. Sunday.

One message was found in the wash along with one on the marquee, one on a signal
box, and one on a corner wall.

The incident is being investigated as a hate crime.

The messages were found days after New York became the sixth and most populous
state to legalize gay marriage.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110627-5LA-BRF-Kill-All-Gays-Graffiti-Scrawled-Outside-Lancaster-Business-0627
-20110627

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              26 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

His zero tolerance approach slashed crime in New York and Los Angeles. Now Bill
Bratton wants Scotland Yard's top job. And David Cameron wants him too.

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 242 words


His zero tolerance approach slashed crime in New York and Los Angeles. Now Bill
Bratton wants Scotland Yard's top job. And David Cameron wants him too.

Bratton was born in Boston in October, 1947. As a young patrol sergeant in the
70s he helped escort black pupils into schools that had been forcibly
desegregated. He became the city's police commissioner in 1993 but made his name
after he was appointed to run the New York Police Department the following year.

The city's new mayor, Rudy Giuliani, believed in the 'broken windows' approach
to crime, based on the observation that if you leave one window in a building
unrepaired the rest will soon get smashed too. Bratton was recruited to put that
strategy into practice -- and did so with spectacular success. Crime in a city
notorious for violence plummeted to the lowest levels since the 60s, no-go areas
shrank and the policy became Giuliani's trophy accomp- lishment.

In 2002 he was appointed to the equivalent job on the opposite coast in Los
Angeles.

He raised household rubbish collection fees to pay for new rank-and-file
officers, set out to meet leaders of minority communities and announced he
wanted an end to the paramilitary, 'robo-cop' policing that had long
characterised the LAPD. Instead he wanted 'high-road policing' -- what Britain
would call 'bobby on the beat'. Home Secretary Theresa May is opposed to a
non-Briton getting the job which could leave the field open to Sir Hugh Orde.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

Los Angeles stakeout nets Pasadena vehicle burglary suspect

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 181 words


PASADENA - Following a stakeout Monday, Pasadena police arrested a Los Angeles
man who they believe burglarized several cars.

Pasadena police Detective Lt. Tracy Ibarra said officers responded to a report
of a vehicle burglary about 5:30 a.m. and found a witness who gave officers a
description of the burglar and a license plate number for his vehicle.

Officers were able to trace the license plate to a house on Lomitas Drive in Los
Angeles and waited there for several hours for Sonny Link, 32, to return home.

When he arrived, officers found he matched the description provided by the
witness, and he was arrested on suspicion of vehicle burglary.

Ibarra said officers searched Link's home and the home of a friend and found
numerous items they believe Link took from vehicles. Ibarra said the friend was
not involved in the burglaries and was cooperative with police.

"It appeared he used his friend's residence as a place to hide stolen property,"
Ibarra said.

Ibarra said officers are still working to determine whom the stolen items belong
to. Link remains in custody on $20,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Los Angeles Superior


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Superior
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            January 4, 2011 Tuesday

For Los Angeles, fewest homicides since 1967. Why the drop?;
In 2010, Los Angeles saw 297 homicides - down from more than 600 a year in the
1990s. The mayor and police groups praise the LAPD, but other are dubious.

BYLINE: Daniel B. Wood Staff writer

LENGTH: 654 words


Los Angeles saw its lowest level of homicides in more than 40 years in 2010, but
law enforcement and community leaders can't seem to agree on why violent crime
has fallen.

On Tuesday Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Los Angeles Police
Department Chief Charlie Beck announced that the city of Los Angeles finished
2010 with 297 murders, quite a drop from the 1990s, when annual homicides
regularly topped 600.

"Today, I am proud to announce that last year, in 2010, Los Angeles had fewer
murders than at any point since 1967," Mayor Villaraigosa said at a downtown
press conference Tuesday. "Even during tough economic times, we have kept our
sights on a more hopeful, promising, and safer future and the statistics once
again shed light on a much brighter outcome for our city."

The homicide rate per 10,000 people was 0.74 - the lowest since 1964, when Los
Angeles had a per capita rate of 0.66.

Police unions, urban policy analysts, and the ACLU all released statements
praising the LAPD's efforts at building bridges with the communities it serves.

"The LAPD took three major steps that turned what arguably was once the nation's
poster police agency for racism, abuse, violence, and brutality into a model of
professionalism, efficiency, and community sensitivity," says Earl Ofari
Hutchinson, president Los Angeles Urban Policy Roundtable.

Mr. Hutchinson says the LAPD markedly reduced the number of officer shootings
and the use of force through training and diligent discipline. "[The LAPD] made
a concerted effort to improve relations with the African-American community
through meetings, town halls, increased use of foot and bike patrols, and
visible accessibility and access of police officials interacting with black
leaders," he says.

The announcement comes as cities including Chicago, Detroit, and San Diego claim
significant progress against crime. For instance, Chicago police Superintendent
Jody Weis Monday said the city had 435 homicides - its lowest number since 1965.

Generally speaking, improvements in technology - video, DNA testing, and cell
phones - have made solving homicides far easier, resulting in fewer cold cases,
says Lisa Smith, a professor of criminal law at Brooklyn Law School.

But she and other analysts are wary of heaping too much praise on police
departments for driving crime rates down.

"It is instructive to look at the individual precincts and compare their
year-to-year homicides," says Ms. Smith. "How many of those homicides involve
strangers and how many are interpersonal disputes? How many homicides are solved
versus unsolved?"

More analysis is needed to draw proper conclusions, she says. Indeed, further
study could suggest that other national and local trends might have had as much
affect on the homicide rate as police efforts.

For one, the national economy could be a factor. "A slow economy usually means
less people out and about getting into confrontations," says Joey Lipari of
Citizens Alert at the Jane Addams College of Social Work at the University of
Illinois in Chicago. "The police departments always try to take credit for drops
in crime, but its not clear to me, or most criminologists, what exactly causes
the stats to fluctuate."

Adds Lance Hannon, a sociologist at Villanova University in Pennsylvania:
"Sometimes you find out that the crime rate was going down long before the
police did anything different and was also going down in other cities as well."

The numbers also befuddle some observers. Chicago has been struggling against
the perception that violence has been spiraling out of control.

"I am dubious of these claims that crime is dropping," says Mary Powers,
director of the National Coalition on Police Accountability.

She notes that the announcement comes just as a new Chicago mayor's race
approaches. "It's very hard to sort out if crime is really dropping or if
politicians are merely trying to make it look that way," she says.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

Around Pasadena, August 6: Pasadena men jailed in L.A. pot dispensary raid

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words


LOS ANGELES

Police raided a Los Angeles medical marijuana dispensary suspected of being a
front for an interstate drug-trafficking operation, arresting six people -
including two Pasadena men - and seizing 20 pounds of cocaine and several
weapons, authorities said.

Raymond George, 60, the owner of the White Oak Healing Center in the San
Fernando Valley, was among those arrested for investigation of conspiracy to
sell cocaine and marijuana, police said in a statement Thursday.

The others arrested were Reginald Beijer, 59, and Alfredo Gonzalez, 51, both of
Pasadena; Halz Carrera, 51, of Los Angeles; Francisco Franco, 41, of Riverside;
and Francisco Vallejo, a 30-year-old resident of Tijuana, Mexico.

The investigation began last year after a murder attempt on George's son in what
appeared to be an organized crime-style hit. Police said the probe, conducted
with Ohio drug trafficking investigators, led to information that implicated
George in the transportation and sale of marijuana and cocaine between Los
Angeles and Cleveland, where he has a second home.

He was arrested after officers, who were preparing to serve a search warrant at
the center, saw five men come in to make an alleged cocaine deal, the statement
said. They were taken into custody while leaving the center and George was
arrested after SWAT officers ordered him to come out.

Besides the drugs, police seized a loaded rifle, two loaded pistols, a bottle
containing 120 oxycodone pills and nearly $7,000 in cash. They said they found
the cocaine in one of the suspect's vehicles, and seized George's car, which had
Ohio license plates and had been modified with secret storage compartments.

Each of the six suspects was being held on $1.5 million bail.

An after-hours call to the center went unanswered.

ALTADENA

Deputies, FBI agents serve narcotics warrant

Sheriff's deputies FBI agents raided a home in Altadena Thursday in search of
drugs, authorities said.

An FBI SWAT team detonated flash-bang grenades about 5:30 p.m. Thursday as they
forced their way into a home at El Sereno Avenue and Woodbury Road, officials
said.

The FBI and sheriff's deputies teamed up to serve a narcotics search warrant at
the home, which is believed to be a hangout for Pasadena Denver Lanes gang
members, Capt. Steve McLean said.

Officials found "a small amount" of crack cocaine inside a bedroom of the home,
he said.

More than 20 people were detained and questioned following the raid, Sgt. Joseph
Fender said.

One man was arrested because of an outstanding arrest warrant, he said, and
another was cited for possession of marijuana.

The investigation was ongoing.

A simultaneous narcotics search warrant was served at a home in the 200 block of
Douglas Street in Pasadena, however no information regarding that raid was
available Friday.

ALHAMBRA

Free medical services offered at Baptist church

The city will offer free medical services today at the Alhambra First Baptist
Church on 101 S. Atlantic Blvd from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.

According to Mayor Gary Yamuchi, the Alhambra Health Fair will offer a unique
service designed to teach residents about proper use of prescription medication.

"One interesting thing we are doing that they don't do at other health fairs is
something called 'medication therapy management,"' he said. "We will have
pharmacists take a look at your prescriptions at evaluate the medications your
are taking."

Fair participants will also be provided with an update on their health status as
it relates to a whole range of medical conditions, said Yamauchi, who is
personally sponsoring the event.

From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

BRIEF: Police: Report of Rape at Montage Beverly Hills "Baseless"

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 201 words


Nov. 02--BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- A woman claimed she was sexually assaulted by
two men at a luxury hotel in Beverly Hills, but police now say it appears the
allegations are "baseless."

The woman, who is in her 40s, told police she was attacked inside her room at
the Montage Hotel around 12:30 a.m. Wednesday.

She said the men fled in a large SUV, possibly a Hummer

The hotel is located at Canon Drive and Clifton Way.

The woman was a guest at the hotel. She was taken to a hospital for observation,
according to Sgt. Max Subin.

Crime scene investigators were at the hotel early Wednesday morning with a
mobile crime lab.

Investigators interviewed the woman, and say they do not believe any crime
occurred.

Beverly Hills police said in a statement:

"The alleged victim was entertaining two gentlemen in her room when the
situation escalated and she became fearful. Disoriented and embarrassed, the
alleged victim responded to the hotel's lobby where she was contacted by hotel
security who ultimately contacted B.H.P.D."

The management at the Montage Hotel has declined to comment on the incident.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111102-5LA-BRF-Police-Report-of-Rape-at-Montage-Beverly-Hills-Baseless-1102-20
111102

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday

Members of Sheriff's Department, FBI and ATF continue investigating St. John
Vianney Church fire

BYLINE: By J.D. Velasco, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 315 words


HACIENDA HEIGHTS - A team of investigators 50 strong continued examining
evidence Wednesday as part of the ongoing investigation into Saturday's blaze at
St. John Vianney Church.

The fire, which broke out shortly after midnight and caused about $8 million in
damage to the church sanctuary, was declared an act of arson earlier this week.

Sgt. Gary Morgan of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Arson/Explosive Detail
investigators have found clear evidence the fire was intentionally set, but
could not provide any specifics.

And so far, there have been few solid leads in the search for a suspect, Morgan
said.

He said that while there was no evidence that directly suggested the fire was a
hate crime, such a motivation has not been ruled out.

"It's always inferred when you burn a church or a place of worship that there's
hate involved," Morgan said.

Because of that possibility, the FBI has contributed its own agents and an
evidence recovery team to assist in the investigation.

Laura Eimiller, spokeswoman for the FBI's Los Angeles field office, said her
agency's investigators are trying to determine if any federal laws were broken.

"Clearly we'll want to be notified as soon as possible to determine if a hate
crime is at play," she said.

Eimiller said the FBI is able to contribute its knowledge of hate groups and
domestic terror groups to the investigation, while the Sheriff's Department
brings intimate knowledge of the local community and arson expertise.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and Explosives has sent out some of
its own agents as well to provide support, said Special Agent Chris Hoffman of
the ATF Los Angeles Field Division.

Both Eimiller and Morgan said the investigation team is stronger because of the
expertise each agency brings to the table.

"It's a collective effort," Morgan said. "It worked out real well."

justin.velasco@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 2718

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: Newport Beach Makes Trash Scavenging a Crime

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 123 words


Jan. 31--NEWPORT BEACH -- It's now a crime to steal trash in Newport Beach.

The city council approved a measure that allows police to arrest people caught
trash scavenging.

The law was enacted in response to complaints from residents who say trash
scavengers sometimes also steal bikes and other property.

The city of Costa Mesa is considering a similar move against trash scavenging.

It's looking into distributing trash can locks to residents who request them.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110131-5LA-BRF-Newport-Beach-Makes-Trash-Scavenging-a-Crime
-0131-20110131

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

Anti-crime meeting planned for North Whittier, Avocado Heights residents

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 172 words


WHITTIER - Community members are invited to meet with officials and their
neighbors Aug. 25 at a meeting geared at combating crime in the neighborhoods of
North Whittier and Avocado Heights.

The North Whittier Neighborhood Watch Association and the Avocado Heights
Association are teaming up to host "Night Out of the Year 2011" from 7 p.m. to 9
p.m. at 1101 Bassetdale Avenue in Whittier, organizers said in a written
statement.

"The purpose of this activity is for all of us to come together and protect our
families and properties form crime, drugs and gang activity," the statement
said.

Representatives of Los Angeles County Supervisor Gloria Molina, State
Assemblyman Roger Hernandez, D-West Covina, State Sen. Ed Hernandez, D-West
Covina, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and the California Highway
Patrol will be on-hand to answer questions.

"Come and meet your neighbors, because they are the best protection for your
family and property," the statement said.

For more information, contact Ruben Hernandez at 213-388-8352.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

Man Charged in Execution-Style Murder of Girlfriend, Unborn Child

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


Nov. 09--HAWTHORNE, Calif. -- A Long Beach man has been charged in the
execution-style murder of his pregnant girlfriend more than 10 years ago, which
also resulted in the death of their unborn child.

Crystal Dejuanna Taylor, of Hawthorne, and her unborn son were killed on Sept.
25, 2001.

Taylor, who also had a 10-year-old son, was ambushed and shot to death in the
parking area of an apartment building on Kornblum Avenue in Hawthorne.

Police say that 31-year-old Derek Paul Smyer -- Taylor's boyfriend and the
father of her unborn child -- hired 30-year-old Skyler Jefferson Moore to kill
Taylor.

According to detectives, Smyer wanted to avoid any financial obligation for the
child.

Smyer was arrested last Thursday based on newly developed information in the
case that suggested he was involved.

Moore is already behind bars. He is serving a life sentence for a gang-related
murder in Carson two months before Taylor was killed.

Smyer is charged with murder, murder of a human fetus, conspiracy to commit a
crime and solicitation of murder, with an added allegation that the crimes were
committed for financial gain.

Moore has been charged with two counts of murder and conspiracy to commit a
crime.

Prosecutors say both men could face the death penalty.

Smyer is being held without bail, and is scheduled to be arraigned on November
18 at the Airport Courthouse.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111109-5LA-Man-Charged-in-Execution-Style-Murder-of-Girlfriend-Unborn-Child-11
09-20111109

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              39 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 1, 2011 Tuesday

Sex offender wanted for allegedly kidnapping and sexually assaulting teen girls
arrested at park in Rowland Heights

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 160 words


ROWLAND HEIGHTS -- A kidnapping suspect and registered sex offender was arrested
at Pete Schabarum Regional Park after a sheriff's deputy became suspicious of
his behavior.

Sylvester Larrabee is wanted for the sexual assault and kidnapping of two
15-year-old girls in El Paso, Texas. He is also wanted in Los Angeles County for
a 1984 felony sex crime, according to the sheriff's department.

The 54-year-old was sitting alone in a car at the park when he spotted Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy Jeanette Freeman and tried to drive off,
according to sheriff's officials.

Suspicious of his behavior, Freeman pulled over Larrabee and performed a check
for warrants that revealed he was wanted for sex crimes in California and Texas.

A judge set Larrabee's bail for the felony sexual battery he allegedly committed
in the San Gabriel Valley at $250,000. He also faces extradition to Texas on the
kidnap and sexual assault charges, according to sheriff's officials.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sylvester Larrabee, 56, of Lake Elsinore

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             January 9, 2011 Sunday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

EDITORIAL;
SAFETY FIRST;
RECENT DROP IN HOMICIDES IS ALL WELL AND GOOD, BUT A LOOMING BUDGET BATTLE COULD
QUICKLY REVERSE ALL PROGRESS MADE BY POLICE FORCE {SUBHEAD} Recent drop in
homicides is all well and good, but a looming budget battle could quickly
reverse all progress made by police force

SECTION: OPINIONATED/EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 521 words


Los Angeles is now one of the safest big cities in the nation. Once derided as
the nation's capital of gang violence and imagined as a violent metropolis of
drive-by shootings and rampant crime, L.A. has managed a dramatic turnaround.

According to statistics compiled by the Los Angeles Police Department, overall
crime is down. But even more exciting is the big drop in the city's murder rate.
In 2010, Los Angeles reported the lowest number of homicides since 1967 - when
the city had 30 percent fewer people. There were 297 murders last year, way down
from a peak of 1,092 killings in 1992.

L.A. is certainly not alone. Crime rates have significantly dropped in other
major cities, such San Diego, Chicago and Detroit. Nobody can say for sure why
crime is on the decline, but modern policing strategies, technological advances
like DNA analysis and tougher sentencing laws have likely played a role.

And in Los Angeles, it's very likely that the remaking of the LAPD through
reform and increased police hiring have played a role in the decline in crime.
The LAPD is a larger, more efficient, modern and community-minded police agency
than it was in the 1990s.

That's why there is so much at stake as Los Angeles and California struggle with
a budget crisis that will further squeeze public safety dollars and force the
public to make hard choices about where to put the diminishing resources.

In Los Angeles, that choice will come soon. In the coming months, there will be
a legitimate debate between the City Council and Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa over
whether it makes sense to keep hiring cops while using police officers to fill
vacant civilian LAPD jobs. And if the March 8 ballot measure that gives
libraries more funding passes, it could force action right away.

But one thing should not be up for debate: Public safety is government's No. 1
priority. What good is regular trash pickup or Monday library hours when
residents are afraid to leave their homes?

This will be an even more important question in the coming year as more
criminals are put back on the streets. Strict sentencing laws have put more and
more criminals in jail for longer periods. Yet, the state is under court order
to reduce prison overcrowding and that could result in a mass inmate release.
And those are inmates who have been largely warehoused in a violent environment,
not rehabilitated, during their time in lockup. As well, Gov. Jerry Brown has
indicated he will shift low-level offenders out of state prisons and into county
jails, which have their own budget problems.

As city leaders strive to balance the budget in coming months, public safety,
crime fighting and crime prevention should be the last services cut.

Angelenos can adjust in the short term to many reductions in city services. When
the economy improves, the city can recover quickly from shortened library hours,
from a delay in pothole repair and from parks gone raggedy. The city can't,
however, rebound easily if criminals once again feel comfortable victimizing
people in Los Angeles. And the public should never again have to adjust to
living in the murder capital of the U.S.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Crime-Fighting Chihuahua Attacks Armed Bandits

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 313 words


July 18--ALTADENA, Calif -- Two robbery suspects ran into an unexpected obstacle
during a hold-up at a cigar shop in Altadena.

Deputies say the men entered Ace Smoke Shop on North Lake Avenue ordered the
clerk to give them his money.

The clerk complied, putting his cash in a backpack brought by the robbers.

Just as the suspects were about to leave, the owner's pet Chihuahua, Poco,
attacked the men by barking and jumping on them.

One of the suspects appeared so threatened by the pint-sized protector that he
pointed his rifle at it.

The suspects hurriedly fled the location on foot, last seen running southbound
on Maiden Lane from Mariposa Street, with the victim's money in their backpack
and the dog chasing after them.

The robbery victim and the dog were not injured. The men are described as male
hispanics, between 18 and 25 years old, between 5'06"-5'10" and 150-180 pounds.

One was wearing a black, hooded sweatshirt; white shorts; black shoes; and a red
bandanna; carrying a black/gray backpack.

The second was wearing a black jacket with yellow trim, dark shirt, dark pants,
and a black ski mask, armed with a rifle

Weapon: Rifle, dark in color, unknown make/model

Detectives at Altadena Sheriff's Station are asking the public's assistance in
identifying the suspects.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department Detective Binder at 626-296-2114 or 626-798-1131.

If you prefer to provide information ANONYMOUSLY, you may call "Crime Stoppers"
by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to
CRIMES (274637

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110718-5LA-Crime
-Fighting-Chihuahua-Attacks-Armed-Bandits-0718-20110718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Capital (Annapolis, MD)

                              March 4, 2011 Friday

LA police chief: Another

SECTION: Pg. A3

LENGTH: 459 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Twenty years after the videotaped Rodney King beating exposed
racial wounds and ignited passions that eventually sparked a devastating riot,
Police Chief Charlie Beck said yesterday he's confident a similar police beating
couldn't happen again.LOS ANGELES (AP) - Twenty years after the videotaped
Rodney King beating exposed racial wounds and ignited passions that eventually
sparked a devastating riot, Police Chief Charlie Beck said yesterday he's
confident a similar police beating couldn't happen again.

The Los Angeles Police Department has made sweeping reforms in its use of force
and handling of complaints, is under more civilian oversight, and
community-based policing has eased tensions in crime-plagued communities, Beck
said.The Los Angeles Police Department has made sweeping reforms in its use of
force and handling of complaints, is under more civilian oversight, and
community-based policing has eased tensions in crime-plagued communities, Beck
said.

In addition, the ubiquitous cell phone means officers are aware they may be
taped at any time, Beck asserted.In addition, the ubiquitous cell phone means
officers are aware they may be taped at any time, Beck asserted.

"Inarguably, we are a much better department," he said during a routine meeting
with journalists. "I have more faith in my police officers than to believe a
Rodney King incident would happen today.""Inarguably, we are a much better
department," he said during a routine meeting with journalists. "I have more
faith in my police officers than to believe a Rodney King incident would happen
today."

King, who is African American, was beaten by four white police officers
following a high-speed chase into the Lakeview Terrace area on March 3, 1991. A
resident, George Holliday, heard sirens and videotaped the beating from his
balcony. His 9-minute footage aired on local television and eventually found its
way around the world.King, who is African American, was beaten by four white
police officers following a high-speed chase into the Lakeview Terrace area on
March 3, 1991. A resident, George Holliday, heard sirens and videotaped the
beating from his balcony. His 9-minute footage aired on local television and
eventually found its way around the world.

A year later, the four officers were acquitted in a criminal trial, triggering
outrage in some African-American communities that erupted on April 29, 1992,
into days of rioting and looting that left 55 people dead and more than $1
billion in damage.A year later, the four officers were acquitted in a criminal
trial, triggering outrage in some African-American communities that erupted on
April 29, 1992, into days of rioting and looting that left 55 people dead and
more than $1 billion in damage.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

VIDEO: Crime-Fighting Chihuahua Attacks Armed Bandits

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


July 19--ALTADENA, Calif -- Two robbery suspects ran into an unexpected obstacle
during a hold-up at a cigar shop in Altadena -- a crime-fighting Chihuahua.

Deputies say the men entered Ace Smoke Shop on North Lake Avenue ordered the
clerk to give them his money.

The clerk complied, putting his cash in a backpack brought by the robbers.

Just as the suspects were about to leave, the owner's pet Chihuahua, Poco,
attacked the men by barking and jumping on them.

One of the suspects appeared so threatened by the pint-sized protector that he
pointed his rifle at it.

The suspects hurriedly fled the location on foot, last seen running southbound
on Maiden Lane from Mariposa Street, with the victim's money in their backpack
and the dog chasing after them.

The robbery victim and the dog were not injured.

The men are described as male Hispanics, between 18 and 25 years old, between
5'06"-5'10" and 150-180 pounds.

One was wearing a black, hooded sweatshirt; white shorts; black shoes; and a red
bandanna; carrying a black/gray backpack.

The second was wearing a black jacket with yellow trim, dark shirt, dark pants
and a black ski mask. He was armed with a rifle.

Sheriff's detectives are asking for the public's assistance in identifying the
suspects.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department Detective Binder at 626-296-2114 or 626-798-1131.

If you prefer to provide information ANONYMOUSLY, you may call "Crime Stoppers"
by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to
CRIMES (274637

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110719-5LA-VIDEO-Crime
-Fighting-Chihuahua-Attacks-Armed-Bandits-0719-20110719

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday

Sheriff's task force arrests three, recovers $250,000 worth of plastic products

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 228 words


LOS ANGELES - A task force based out of the sheriff's Industry station seized
stolen trademark plastic products worth about $250,000 and arrested three
people, officials announced Tuesday.

Deputies with the sheriff's Industrial Plastic Theft Task Force recovered the
plastic goods at two recycling businesses in South Los Angeles on Monday night.

Some of the plastic products were intact, some were cut into pieces and some had
already been ground for resale, officials said.

The discovery was made by task force members conducting code compliance checks
of recycling businesses.

The owner of the businesses, 43-year-old Juan Arrelano of Bell, and two
employees were booked on suspicion of possession of stolen property and illegal
possession of trademark plastic products.

Deputies didn't name the employees.

"The plastic trademark products are often stolen from the loading docks behind
businesses throughout Los Angeles County and the entire region," said Sgt.
Nabeel Mitry of the Industrial Plastic Theft Task Force.

"Additionally, either employees steal the plastics themselves, or leave them in
a place outside the business so their crime partners can pick them up."

Most of the plastics were pallets, trays, shelves, baskets and collapsible
crates from grocery stores, pizza places, bakery industry, restaurants, beverage
companies, and shipping and receiving companies.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

Cops: Drug Trafficking Ring Uncovered at Reseda Pot Clinic; 6 Arrested

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 258 words


Aug. 05--LOS ANGELES -- Los Angeles police raided a medical marijuana dispensary
in Reseda that was an apparent front for an interstate drug-trafficking
operation, arresting six people and seizing 20 pounds of cocaine, among other
items.

Officers made the arrests Wednesday as they prepared to serve a search warrant
at the White Oak Healing Center, the Los Angeles Police Department said.

Aside from cocaine, officers also seized 300 pot plants, 120 oxycodone pills, a
loaded AK-47 assault rifle, two handguns and more than $6,000 in cash, police
said.

Raymond George, 60, the center's owner, was among those arrested on suspicion of
conspiracy to sell cocaine and marijuana, police said. George is suspected of
transporting drugs illegally between Ohio and California.

Five men who allegedly went into the center to make a cocaine deal were also
arrested.

They were identified as: Halz Carrera, 51, of Los Angeles; Francisco Franco, 41,
of Riverside; Reginald Beijer, 59, and Alfredo Gonzalez, 51, both of Pasadena;
and Francisco Vallejo, a 30-year-old resident of Tijuana, Mexico.

Each was being held on $1.5 million bail, including George.

The investigation began in 2010 following a fatal shooting at the center that
police say appeared to be an organized crime-style hit.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110805-5LA-Cops-Drug-Trafficking-Ring-Uncovered-at-Reseda-Pot-Clinic-6-Arreste
d-0805-20110805

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Neil L. Shapiro: The new Age of Incompetence, and nobody seems to care

BYLINE: NEIL L. SHAPIRO

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 634 words


An elite cultural movement sparked in the late 17th century by mathematician
Isaac Newton and philosophers such as Baruk Spinoza and John Locke, and
continued in the 18th century by, among others, philosophers Voltaire,
Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Montesquieu, acquired the sobriquet "Age of
Enlightenment" or "Age of Reason."

Simply put, the movement sought to exalt the power of reason, philosophy and
science over the kinds of traditional, dogmatic and superstitious beliefs that
dominated the Middle Ages, thereby advancing knowledge and both reforming and
transforming society.

The movement produced an era of incredible intellectual, artistic, philosophical
and spiritual growth.

The early part of the 21st century, by contrast, may one day be dubbed the "Age
of Incompetence."

As a modestly sentient being, I find it hard not to notice that we are
surrounded by supposed experts who, it seems, cannot master even the most
rudimentary premises of their nominal area of expertise.

Perhaps worse, we have grown accepting; when faced with bungled performance, we
simply shrug our shoulders and say, "Oh well."

One need not look too terribly hard to find examples. The Herald recently, in a
single edition, reported on two.

The first involved a study performed for California American Water by RBF
Consulting of the "projected cost of a proposed Moss Landing deep water
desalination project" as well as the cost of 10 other potential alternatives.

RBF pegged the proposed cost of that one project at $583 million, the most
expensive of the studied possibilities.

But RBF made a tiny mistake that fortunately was "discovered by a Monterey
Peninsula Water Management District engineer."

It seems that RBF's "projected cost" was off by a scant $124 million. How does
an "expert" make such an error, one that overstates the projected cost by a
whopping 27 percent?

And then there was the definitive study by the Rand Corporation, a prestigious
think tank, of the effect on crime when Los Angeles shuttered 600 pot
dispensaries.

Based on its analysis of crime data, Rand's investigation concluded that crime
increased within three blocks of those closed dispensaries in the 10 days
following their closure, and that crime decreased the farther one went from
those clinics.

It turns out that the crime data analyzed did not include any from the Los
Angeles Police Department. Performing an analysis of Los Angeles crime data
without data from the LAPD is akin to reporting on the weather without a
thermometer.

When questions were raised by others, Rand had the decency to investigate its
own report and then remove it from its website.

Reminds one of Gilda Radner's Emily Litella character on "Saturday Night Live":
"Never mind."

Had RBF's error not been discovered by someone else, we would have made choices
on how best to solve our water shortage by relying on grossly inaccurate cost
estimates.

If not debunked, the Rand study could have had profound effects on our policy
decisions about pot dispensaries.

Yet nobody seems to be particularly bothered by either error. There was no
outcry, nor even the voicing of muted criticism.

Do we simply not care? Or have we grown used to and are accepting of a low level
of performance by those to whom we look for important information?

In that same edition of The Herald, Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi bristled
at French and German demands that Italy introduce tough new measures to avoid
the economic problems now besetting Greece, Ireland, Spain and Portugal.

He insisted that Italy's economy is absolutely stable, relying no doubt on his
government's expert economists.

The European Union better hope that they are more reliable than RBF Consulting
and the Rand Corporation recently were.

Neil Shapiro is a Monterey lawyer who writes on legal issues and other topics
for this page.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday

BRIEF: Norwalk Stabbing: One Teen Dead, One Teen Wounded

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 134 words


Oct. 22--NORWALK -- One teenager was killed and one other injured after they
were stabbed in Norwalk.

The incident took place on the 14000 block of Harvest Avenue Friday night.

Sheriff's deputies say the male juvenile who died was pronounced dead at the
scene. The second male juvenile victim was taken to a hospital.

The suspects remain at large.

If you have any information, you're urged to call the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau, 323-890-5500.

If you prefer to provide information anonymously, you may call "Crime Stoppers"
by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to
CRIMES (274637), or using the website http://lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111022-5LA-BRF-Norwalk-Stabbing-One-Teen-Dead-One-Teen-Wounded-1022-20111022

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 1, 2011 Saturday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LOS ANGELES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 544 words


Another Cooley deputy eyes DA position

A veteran prosecutor who has handled cases ranging from cop killings to Lindsay
Lohan's drunken driving saga announced Friday she hopes to become the first
female and first African-American district attorney of Los Angeles County.

Danette Meyers, a deputy district attorney in Los Angeles for more than 24
years, has tried nearly 200 jury trials, including more than 40 murder cases.

She is the second prosecutor in District Attorney Steve Cooley's office to
announce a run for his job in 2012.

Deputy District Attorney Alan Jackson, who has been a prosecutor for 16 years,
announced Dec. 6 that he hopes to win Cooley's job.

After narrowly losing a race for state attorney general in November, Cooley said
he had not ruled out seeking a fourth term as D.A.

LOS ANGELES

Health officials urge cough vaccinations: California health officials want
parents of teens to get up to date on their whooping cough vaccine to get into
compliance with a new law for 2011.

A new law requires all middle and high school students to be vaccinated against
the highly infectious disease also known as pertussis prior to the start of
classes this fall.

Immunity begins to wane 10 years after a pertussis vaccine is given, and most
students were last immunized before entering kindergarten, between ages 4 and 6.

More than 7,800 cases of whooping cough were reported here in 2010, including 10
deaths.

LOS ANGELES

Fair board appointees keep posts: In his last weekend as California governor,
Arnold Schwarzenegger made a host of reappointments to local fair boards in Los
Angeles County.

David Honda, 59, of Northridge, was reappointed to the board of the 51st
District Agricultural Association, which operates the troubled San Fernando
Valley Fair. He has served as a member since 1999.

Reappointed to the Antelope Valley Fair board were Darth Eliopulos, 51, and
Leeroy Halley, 68, both of Lancaster; and Ronald Emard, 67, Matthew Jimmink, 28,
and Cecil Swetland, 48, all of Palmdale. Sandra Smith, 51, of Lancaster, was
appointed for the first time.

PALMDALE

Antelope Valley crime rate slips again: The crime rate in the Antelope Valley
dropped for the third consecutive year, officials said Friday.

The crime rate is down 31percent from 2006 and the Antelope Valley reported the
fewest number of "serious" crimes since the 1990s, officials said.

"Serious" crimes include manslaughter, rape, robbery, assault, burglary and
arson.

Nineteen homicides were reported this year in the Antelope Valley, compared with
29 in 2006 - a 51 percent drop. Violent crime dropped by 23 percent during the
same time period and property crimes went down 28 percent.

VENTURA

Citrus pest prompts quarantine: California agriculture officials have expanded
their quarantine area for the Asian citrus psyllid after two of the insects were
found in Ventura County.

The Department of Food and Agriculture announced Friday that all of Ventura
County and some 312 square miles of adjacent Santa Barbara County were being put
under quarantine to minimize the spread of the pest, which can carry a disease
fatal to lemon and orange trees.

Psyllid quarantines had already been in place in San Diego, Imperial, Orange,
Los Angeles, San Bernardino and Riverside counties.

- Staff and Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday

BRIEF: Man Charged With Multiple Car Thefts at Local Parks

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


June 18--VENTURA ( KTLA ) -- An Oxnard man was arrested this week in connection
with numerous thefts at parking lots at local parks, officials said Friday.

James Vivian Melton, 46, has been charged with several felony counts of
burglary, possession of stolen property and identity theft.

Thousands Oaks police believe Melton is responsible for vehicle burglaries in
parking lots near local and state park trailheads across Ventura, Santa Barbara
and Los Angeles counties.

In most of the cases the burglar would steal credit cards and identity cards and
use them for purchases for several hours after the theft.

Melton was arrested on June 9 after police found stolen property from hikers
during a search of his home in Oxnard.

He is being held on $70,000 bail.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110618-5LA-BRF-Man-Charged-With-Multiple-Car-Thefts-at-Local-Parks-0618-201106
18

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday

BRIEF: 18-year-old Found Dead in Rancho Palos Verdes Home

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 142 words


Nov. 05--RANCHO PALOS VERDES -- Officials have identified an 18-year-old woman
who was found dead in a home in Rancho Palos Verdes Friday morning.

Brittany Vandergoes, 18, was found dead in a bed at a home in the 1900 block of
MacArthur Street around 10 a.m. Friday.

Vandergoes is believed to be a friend of the person who lives at the residence.

Authorities are continuing to investigate the cause of death.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department at (323) 890-5500. If you prefer to provide information Anonymously,
you may call "Crime Stoppers" by dialing (800) 222-TIPS (8477), texting the
letters TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES (274637), or by using the website
http://lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111105-5LA-BRF-18-year-old-Found-Dead-in-Rancho-Palos-Verdes-Home-1105-2011110
5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Study: Medical pot dispensaries don't boost local crime

BYLINE: By Josh Richman Oakland Tribune © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 571 words


A new study casts doubt on many law enforcement agencies' assertion that medical
marijuana dispensaries contribute to local street crime.

In fact, minor crime rises markedly in surrounding neighborhoods when
dispensaries close, at least over the short term, according to a study released
Tuesday by the nonpartisan RAND Corp.

"Overall crime increased almost 60 percent in the blocks surrounding closed
clinics in the 10 days following their closing," the study said.

Researchers studied crime before and after a large number of dispensaries were
shut in Los Angeles and found that incidents, such as break-ins, rose near the
closed dispensaries when compared to neighborhoods where dispensaries remained
open.

The study suggested several theories for what might drive these results,
including the loss of on-site security and surveillance, a reduction in foot
traffic, a resurgence in outdoor drug activity and a change in police efforts.

Steph Sherer, executive director of Oakland-based Americans for Safe Access, a
medical marijuana advocacy group, said her organization has reached the same
conclusions, but "law enforcement has largely ignored or refuted these findings"
as various cities have closed dispensaries, put a moratorium on new ones or
banned them altogether.

"Dispensary regulations bring greater oversight and less crime to local
communities," she said.

The California Police Chiefs Association in 2009 issued a white paper on
marijuana dispensaries that provided anecdotal evidence to back its claim that
they "attract or cause numerous ancillary social problems as byproducts of their
operation," the most glaring of which "are other criminal acts."

The association declined to comment Tuesday on the RAND study; the California
Narcotic Officers' Association did not return a call for comment.

Los Angeles Police Department spokesman Cmdr. Andrew Smith hadn't seen the study
so wasn't able to discuss it in detail, saying, "We do know that there have been
many reported crimes at these medical marijuana facilities, including
burglaries, robberies and even murder, but we haven't seen their analysis of the
crimes around them, so we can't comment."

The RAND researchers looked at crime data for 10 days before and 10 days after
the June 7, 2010, closures of 430 dispensaries in Los Angeles. Researchers
combined the data with information from the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office
on the exact locations of dispensaries that were either subject to closure or
allowed to remain open. They analyzed crime reports within 0.3, 0.6, 1.5, and 3
miles of dispensaries that closed and compared the results to crime in
neighborhoods where dispensaries remained open. In all, they looked at 21 days
of crime reports for 600 dispensaries -- 170 that remained open and 430 that
closed.

The San Jose City Council last week decided to allow only 10 dispensaries,
ending nearly two years of debate as nearly 12 dozen dispensaries spread across
the city.

"What we've experienced here in a lot of our dispensaries is not an increase or
decrease in or around the area where the dispensary is, it's the actual
dispensary that's being victimized" including armed takeovers, San Jose police
spokesman Sgt. Jason Dwyer said Tuesday.

Although this is an interesting report from a credible source, he said, "I think
the key is that further research is necessary. ... These are the types of things
you need to study over a long period of time."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Time magazine names Santa Cruz predictive policing program one of the year's top
inventions

BYLINE: Jessica M. Pasko, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words


Nov. 23--SANTA CRUZ -- The city police department's predictive policing program
has garnered yet another accolade.

The program is being named as one of the 50 best inventions of 2011 by none
other than Time magazine.

In the Nov. 28 issue, which is already in newsstands, the program was praised
for helping the department "get ahead of the bad guys." It joins the ranks of
such inventions as the iPad, the electric car and devices that help people walk
again, which have all been named among the top inventions in previous years.
Time releases its "50 Best New Inventions" issue annually. Other inventions
honored by Time this year are Apple's Siri, 3-D processors and holographic
mapping.

"We are honored to be recognized by Time magazine for our predictive policing
program," said Police Chief Kevin Vogel. "Innovation is the key to modern
policing and we're proud to be leveraging technology in a way that keeps our
community safer."

The program, which uses technology based on earthquake prediction technology,
has been praised by media outlets and law enforcement agencies around the nation
for its innovation, including features in The New York Times and on ABC World
News with Diane Sawyer, among others.

Being recognized by Time is a big honor, but what's more important is that since
the program was implemented, the department has seen a large reduction in
crimes, said Zach Friend, spokesman and crime analyst for the department.

"We're focused a lot less on the coverage and the accolades than we are on the
actual reduction," said Friend, who was instrumental in bringing the program to
Santa Cruz.

Friend first read about the predictive policing program being worked on by Santa
Clara University's Dr. George Mohler in the Los Angeles Times last year, and
decided to approach Mohler about implementing it in Santa Cruz. Mohler developed
the program with a team of UCLA researchers using an earthquake aftershock model
to determine where future crimes will occur, initially using data from the Los
Angeles Police Department. It's similar to the predictability of an aftershock
after an earthquake in that the model predicts that there will be so-called
"after crimes" following an initial crime.

Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and provided him with crime
data from 2002-2009, with a focus on property crimes. The department became the
first in the nation to use the predictive program, which it implemented in July,
and since then, they've already seen a decrease in the targeted crime types,
which includes burglaries and motor vehicle thefts.

In January, the police department will work with the researchers to do a full
analysis of the program after the first six months of implementation. Other
police departments are also looking into implementing the program, which LAPD
has started testing in one of its divisions.

Friend and Lt. Bernie Escalante visited LAPD earlier this week to speak to
members of the division, which is three times the size of the entire Santa Cruz
Police Department, about using the program and how its worked in Santa Cruz.

The program can also help ease the pain of departments dealing with shrinking
staffing due to budget cuts, a matter of increasing importance given the
nation's economic troubles.

"Technological programs like this can help equalize the gap there," said Friend.

___ (c)2011 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111123-QC-Time-magazine-names-Santa-Cruz-predictive-policing-program-one-of-th
e-year-20111123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday

BRIEF: Man Found Fatally Shot in East LA

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 174 words


Dec. 04--EAST LOS ANGELES, Calif. -- Sheriff's Homicide Detectives are
investigating the circumstances surrounding the shooting death of a male
Hispanic adult whose body was found Saturday in an alley off of Olympic
Boulevard.

Sheriff's deputies responded to a report of an assault with a deadly weapon
around 10:35 p.m. Saturday in the 5000 block of Olympic Boulevard, where they
found a man who had suffered multiple gunshot wounds.

He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Detectives reported no immediate information on a potential suspect, according
to Detective Sgt. Luis Nunez.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau, 323-890-5500. If you prefer
to provide information ANONYMOUSLY, you may call "Crime Stoppers" by dialing
(800) 222-TIPS (8477), or texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES
(274637), or using www.lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111204-5LA-BRF-Man-Found-Fatally-Shot-in-East-LA-1204-20111204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 3, 2011 Thursday

BRIEF: Woman Questioned After Caught Drawing Swastika in Front of Temple

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 132 words


March 03--MID-WILSHIRE -- Police are investigating a hate crime in front of a
Jewish synagogue after a swastika was found on a sidewalk, police said.

Police arrived at the Wilshire Boulevard Temple in the 3600 block of Wilshire
Boulevard after receiving a call of a woman in her 50s seen drawing a swastika
in front of the temple.

Authorities questioned the woman in regards to the possible hate crime but she
has not been arrested.

Investigators said that no other part of the property appeared to be vandalized.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110303-5LA-BRF-Woman-Questioned-After-Caught-Drawing-Swastika-in-Front-of-Temp
le-0303-20110303

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Police Car Tires Slashed in Early Morning Vandalism Spree

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 248 words


Nov. 18--DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES -- Police are asking the public for help after
several squad cars had their tires slashed in the overnight hours Friday.

According to LAPD, the vandal struck between midnight and 2 a.m. Friday and
vehicles that were affected were parked along Broadway and Spring streets
between 6th and 8th streets.

Officers at LAPD's Central Police Station on 6th Street in Downtown L.A. were
among those targeted by the vandalism spree that left many cars' tires
flattened.

"It's too much of a coincidence that all the police cars parked in front of the
station had flat tires too, so we suspect it's part of the same spree," Central
Detective Division Lt. Paul Vernon said. "Given that, I would expect that we
might get some reports of flattened tires near Main Street too."

Police say a video camera caught an African-American woman wearing a dark hooded
sweat-shirt near the scene who they believe may be connected to the crime.

Anyone who believes they may be a victim or may have information about the crime
is asked to contact Central Police Station Auto Detectives at (213) 972-1242.
Anyone wishing to remain anonymous should call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS
(1-800-222-8477) or by texting to phone number 274637 (C-R-I-M-E-S on most
keypads) with the message "LAPD." Tipsters may also go to LAPDOnline.org, click
on "webtips" and follow the prompts.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111118-5LA-Police-Car-Tires-Slashed-in-Early-Morning-Vandalism-Spree-1118-2011
1118

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 15, 2011 Monday

Reply: Letter: British policing put under the spotlight

BYLINE: Professor emeritus Anthony Milton

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 181 words


I was appalled to read (Report, 13 August) that the prime minister is inviting
Bill Bratton, former police chief in New York and Los Angeles to advise on
policing in the UK. I wonder how much David Cameron knows about crime in large
US cities and the problems of law enforcement. From my own experience of living
in the US, they are entirely different from the UK; Los Angeles as a city bears
no resemblance to London. I consider inviting Bill Bratton an insult to the
British police forces, particularly the Met. Bratton knows nothing about
policing in the UK and nothing about our crime scene.

Perhaps if the prime minister does meet Mr Bratton, the first thing he should
ask him is how many people were shot and killed by policemen in New York City
and Los Angeles during his terms of office. Mr Cameron, since his return from
holiday, has made several pronouncements on policing and dealing with crime,
many of which have offended the police, and yet he has failed to ask the
fundamental questions as to why these riots took place.

Professor emeritus Anthony Milton

Whaddon, Cambridgeshire

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: Vandals Target 2 Local Churches With Hate Graffiti

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


Jan. 31--ROWLAND HEIGHTS -- Two local churches are part of a hate crime
investigation being conducted by the L.A. County Sheriff's Department.

Authorities say a Jehovah's Witness church at 19111 Killian Avenue was
vandalized shortly before 6 a.m. Saturday.

The graffiti has been removed, and the details of what was written haven't been
released. Lt. Mike Brown said only that the graffiti contained "offensive words,
phrases and symbols."

About $500 in damage was done to the church, police said.

A second church was also vandalized over the weekend. It is located in the 28000
block of Highridge Road in Rolling Hills Estates.

Authorities say the graffiti found there was racially and religiously charged.

Police are investigating both incidents as hate crimes.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110131-5LA-BRF-Vandals-Target-2-Local-Churches-With-Hate-Graffiti-0131-2011013
1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

James Ellroy's demons;
Celebrated novelist explores 'cr#232;me-de-la-crime' in new series, including
his own mother's murder

BYLINE: Peter Edwards Toronto Star

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 687 words


Novelist James Ellroy is clearly having fun in television land, even if he
hasn't broken down and bought a TV set of his own yet.

His new series, L.A.: City of Demons, is an irony-free blend of the sacred and
the profane, where words pop off the screen like bullets.

Ellroy was once hailed in the Los Angeles Times as "one of the great American
writers of our times," but for all of his command of the language, he seems
happiest when shouting "Bam!" in the six-part series that debuts on the
Investigation Discovery channel Wednesday at 8 p.m.

"Crime is a palpitatingly perennial gas and L.A. crime is the craaaazy
cr#232;me-de-la-crime," enthuses Ellroy, whose energized style has been called
"neo-noir" and "hyper-pulp."

"Viewers are terribly tired of the trailer-trash tragedies that caustically
contaminate documentary TV.

"They only want to groove, grok, gravitate and glide toward glamorous crime, and
L.A. is where all that shimmering ... stuff ... pervertedly percolates."

In the series' first segment, entitled "Dead Women Own Me," viewers follow the
story of the unsolved murder of Jean Hilliker, who was sexually assaulted and
strangled with her stockings in 1958.

She was Ellroy's mother, and he was just 10 when he lost her.

A photo taken the day he got the news shows a stunned, geeky-looking boy.

Now 63, Ellroy insisted in an interview earlier this year that there's no
personal pain in telling the story of his mother's murder - complete with crime
scene photos - for millions of small-screen viewers.

It was also the focal point of his memoir, The Hilliker Curse: My Pursuit of
Women, released last fall.

"I have been exploiting my mother's death for years," he said.

"I think she is going to command a lot of the royalties when I get to the other
side."

For all of his sometimes glib posturing, it's easy to sense real pain here.

At the time of her death, she was divorced from Ellroy's father and Ellroy was
their only child.

She struck him hard when he said he'd rather live with his father than with her.

In his words, he then "summoned her dead" or put a curse on her.

Three months later, she was killed after leaving a bar with a man.

Writing about crime - even embracing it with gallows humour - allows him to
confront the things that scare us most, and feel control over death and demons,
he said.

"It allows us to put our hand to the flame and not be burned."

After living in Connecticut and Kansas City, K.S., he's back where he grew up,
studying the crimes that shocked and horrified him as a child.

"It has the best crime in the world," Ellroy said of Los Angeles.

He sounded proud that his technology skills apparently haven't progressed past
the 1950s. He said he has no cellphone, television or computer skills.

His show embraces technology, even if he doesn't.

As he explores the L.A. underworld in City of Demons, technology-phobe Ellroy is
accompanied onscreen by a computer-generated, talking bull terrier K-9 cop named
Barko, whose personal quirks include dealing drugs and planting guns on
suspects.

Each episode of the series is based in the Los Angeles of his childhood, a
setting he calls "wonderfully seductive," and which he earlier explored in his
L.A. Quartet novels, The Black Dahlia, The Big Nowhere, L.A. Confidential and
White Jazz.

His own press material calls him "elephant-egoed," and he sounded supremely
confident when discussing his talents. "I have no doubts about my professional
ability," he said.

Still, he sounded surprised and genuinely vulnerable when he discussed how he
feels when real women outside of his pages actually like him.

"I grew up without women and I wanted them, and when women finally became
available I was absolutely flabbergasted," he said.

His recent memoir ended with twice-divorced Ellroy finally settling into a happy
relationship.

"Although we had a fight last night, we are still very happy," he said.

"I'm a happy man. Personally, professionally, life is good."

And he said that there's something ultimately positive and life-affirming about
City of Demons, despite its wildly seamy storylines.

"I think to get to the light you have to go through the dark," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: James Ellroy returns to Los Angeles in the new series L.A.: City of
Demons. The novelist says the city has "the best crime in the world." DAVID
JOHNSON/DISCOVERY CHANNEL

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 1, 2011 Monday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Police, communities coming together;
EVENT: National Night Out designed to get residents more involved.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 440 words


Local law-enforcement agencies will be participating Tuesday in National Night
Out, an outreach program designed to get residents involved in crime- and
drug-prevention programs.

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and police departments in Los
Angeles, Burbank and Glendale are among the agencies that will be hosting
potlucks, open houses, block parties and community outreach.

"Because (National Night Out) draws people out of their homes and into their
neighborhoods, you get to know who your neighbors are, which is good for
anything like situations involving crime and disaster," said Glendale Sgt. John
Gilkerson, who oversees that city's community policing program.

"When a neighborhood takes responsibility for itself, a certain percentage of
the criminal activity will go elsewhere."

Now is its 28th year, National Night Out is sponsored by the nonprofit National
Association of Town Watch, which develops and promotes anti-crime programs.

Community involvement is even more important during times of tight budgets,
officials say, because law enforcement relies on residents to be their eyes and
ears on the streets.

"The idea is to collaborate between the community and the police department to
show unity and work hand in hand," said Justin Bergmann, senior lead officer at
the Los Angeles Police Department's Van Nuys Division.

The following is a sampling of the scores of events that are planned Tuesday
night around Southern California:

Burbank: 5:30-8 p.m., Chandler Bike Path, Ketstone Street and Brighton Street.

Glendale: More than three dozen events are planned. See www.glendalenno.org.

La Crescenta: 6-9 p.m. at Ralphs; 2675 Foothill Blvd.; neighborhood barbecue,
2700 block of Franklin St.

Lancaster: 3-6 p.m., Pierre Bain Park, 5th Street East at Avenue I. In addition,
individual Neighborhood Watch groups will be hosting their own events. Call
661-948-8466.

Los Angeles: The LAPD's Devonshire, Foothill, Mission, North Hollywood, Topanga
and Van Nuys Divisions each have multiple events planned.

They include a barbecue from 4-7 p.m., Andres Pico Park, 10940 Sepulveda Blvd.,
Mission Hills; community outreach, 4-7 p.m. at the Guadalupe Center, 21600 Hart
St., Canoga Park; an open house from 6-9 p.m. at Van Nuys City Hall, 6240 Sylmar
Ave.; community outreach at 7 p.m., Valley Village Park, Westpark Drive and
Addison Street; a potluck at 6 p.m. at Stonehurst Park, 9901 Dronfield Ave., Sun
Valley; and a picnic and movie night, 7-11 p.m., Mason Park, 10500 Mason Ave.,
Chatsworth.

For complete LAPD listings, see www.lapdonline.org.

For more information about National Night Out, visit www.nno.org or call
800-NITE-OUT.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday

L.A. Sheriff Baca Testifies at Hearing on Radical Muslims

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


March 10--LOS ANGELES -- As LA Sheriff Lee Baca testified today at Congressman
Peter King's (Rep. NY) Washington hearings regarding American Muslim
'radicalization,' Baca brought with him a history of cooperation with the Los
Angeles-area Muslim community.

A glance at the L.A. Sheriffs web site reveals that Sheriff Baca in the past
initiated a Muslim Outreach program through the department's Public Trust
Policing system, to better address current issues facing the Muslim community
such as hate crimes and discrimination.

Under Sheriff Baca, The Muslim Community Affairs unit was established in August
2007 to develop an outreach program for the Muslim Community in Los Angeles
County. The unit was designed to complement the efforts of the Muslim American
Homeland Security Congress which was created by Sheriff Baca in July 2005.

The Muslim Community Affairs Unit is managed by the Muslim Sheriff's Department.
The unit includes a training program for the Muslim community on law enforcement
issues such as hate crimes, domestic violence, gangs and identity theft. A Young
Muslim American Leaders Group (YMALG) was also developed, for engagement and
education of young Muslim professionals in the Los Angeles area.

Activities of the young Muslim professionals through the program are jail tours,
recruitment activities, ride-alongs in department helicopters and tours of
patrol stations. These programs further embrace the Sheriff's Department mission
of Public Trust Policing.

Baca's Muslim Community Affairs unit also trains department members about Islam
and Muslim culture, customs, and beliefs.

Sheriffs encourage those interested in more information about the Sheriff Baca's
Muslim Outreach program to contact Sergeant Mike Abdeen at (323) 243-9762 or
Deputy Sherif Morsi at (323) 980-2291.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110310-5LA-L-A-Sheriff-Baca-Testifies-at-Hearing-on-Radical-Muslims-0310-20110
310

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             April 11, 2011 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dodger Stadium violence under scrutiny

BYLINE: Robyn Norwood

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 367 words


LOS ANGELES -- Bryan Stow was supposed to be in the stands at AT&T Park in San
Francisco when his beloved Giants raised their World Series banner.

"It was going to be one of the greatest weeks of our lives," says John Stow, a
cousin.

Instead, the crowd held a moment of silence Friday for the paramedic and father
of two from Santa Cruz, Calif., who remains in critical condition in a Los
Angeles hospital with brain damage of uncertain extent after he was attacked in
a Dodger Stadium parking lot on opening day.

Some 100 paramedics are scheduled to be at AT&T Park today to help the Giants
collect donations for Stow and his family as the team hosts the Dodgers for a
three-game series amid heightened security.

In Los Angeles, the attack has resonated loudly, shaking a Dodgers franchise
that is one of the city's most venerated institutions but has been dogged by
complaints of threatening and offensive behavior at the stadium.

Los Angeles Police Department detectives seeking two assailants who wore Dodgers
gear said they had no indication Stow, 42, did anything to lead to the beating
other than wear a Giants jersey to the March 31 game between the rivals.

"It's troubling to see people become targets for violence for wearing the colors
or jersey of another player or team. Something occurs on a very primitive
level," says psychiatrist Elizabeth Mahler, an expert in fan behavior and crowd
management and a professor at Stanford. "Sometimes in crowds, certain people
feel anonymous and freer to act out."

It is not the first time there has been violence at Dodger Stadium. In 2003, a
Giants fan was shot and killed by a Dodgers fan in the parking lot. In 2009, a
man was stabbed multiple times in the parking lot after the home opener against
the Giants.

Despite a downward trend in crime across the city, roughly half of all serious
crimes in the neighborhood occur on stadium grounds. According to the LAPD,
there were 21 serious crimes -- which includes rape, homicide, aggravated
assault, robbery and burglary -- at Dodger Stadium in 2010, down from 32 in
2009.

When the Dodgers return home Thursday, Police Chief Charlie Beck promised "a sea
of blue" and added, "It's not going to be Dodger Blue."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2011 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Remorseful suspect accused of Walnut bank robbery

BYLINE: By Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 294 words


WALNUT - Detectives arrested a remorseful robbery suspect Wednesday on suspicion
of carrying out a heist the day before at a Walnut bank branch, authorities
said.

Jaimes Lawler, 27, is described as a transient with ties to the Walnut area,
Sgt. Michael Maher of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Major Crime's Bureau
said. He was booked on suspicion of armed bank robbery.

Lawler, who did not initially appear to have any significant criminal record,
said he committed the crime out of finanical desparation.

"He sounds somewhat sorry for his actions, more than most," Maher said.

He was arrested about 9:30 a.m. as he was leaving an apartment building in Los
Angeles, the sergeant said.

The robbery took place about 11 a.m. Tuesday at the Bank of America, 200 S.
Lemon Ave., sheriff's officials said.

Lawler entered the bank, handed a teller a note demanding money and brandished a
handgun, Maher said. He fled with about $1,700.

Both sheriff's and FBI investigators soon identified the suspect as Lawler,
partly due to surveillance images obtained from the bank, officials said.

He was tracked to an apartment building in the 400 block of South Bixel Avenue
in Los Angeles where he was arrested without a struggle.

Officials recovered nearly $1,600 of the loot, as well as a red bag and the
hand-written note used in the robbery, Maher said. The gun used in the crime was
not found.

A set of hair clippers Lawler used to shave his head and beard following the
robbery were also found during his arrest, Lt. Kent Wegener said.

"Subsequently, during an interview, (Lawler) confessed to the bank robbery,"
Maher said.

According to county booking records, Lawler was being held in lieu of $100,000
bail and was due for arraignment Friday in Pomona Superior Court.

twitter.com/sgvcrime

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jaimes Lawler, 27
Jaimes Lawler, 27
Jaimes Lawler, 27
Jaimes Lawler, 27

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday

Arrest Made in Deadly Stabbing Near Norwalk High

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words


Oct. 23--NORWALK -- Detectives have arrested a 16-year-old boy they say is a
suspect in a Friday stabbing in Norwalk that left one teenager dead and another
injured.

The alleged stabbing took place near Norwalk High School on the 14000 block of
Harvest Avenue about 3:15 p.m. Friday.

Sheriff's deputies say the 15-year-old male who died was pronounced dead at the
scene. The second victim, identified as a 16-year-old boy, was taken to a
hospital in stable condition.

The two were walking along Harvest Avenue when a car with two men inside drove
up alongside them. The passenger then exited the vehicle and stabbed the men
several times after a confrontation.

Homicide detectives later identified and found the 16-year-old male suspect, who
is not being named because of his age. He was arrested on suspicion of murder
and was booked at a juvenile detention facility.

A second suspect, described as a male Latino teenager last seen driving a
compact car, has not yet been arrested.

If you have any information, you're urged to call the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau, 323-890-5500.

If you prefer to provide information anonymously, you may call "Crime Stoppers"
by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to
CRIMES (274637), or using the website http://lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111023-5LA-Arrest-Made-in-Deadly-Stabbing-Near-Norwalk-High-1023-20111023

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

BRIEF: Man Found Stabbed to Death On South Gate Bike Trail

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 168 words


July 30--SOUTH GATE -- Los Angeles County Sheriff's homicide detectives are
investigating the stabbing death of a man on a bike trail in South Gate.

A South Gate policew officer discovered the unidentified man's body just after
1:30 a.m. on a trail near the intersection of Burtis Street and Southern Avenue
while on patrol in the area, officials said.

Investigators encourage anyone with information about this incident to contact
investigators with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau
at 323-890-5500.

Tipsters wishing to remain anonymous may call "Crime Stoppers" by dialing
800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES (274637),
or using the website http://lacrimestoppers.org

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110730-5LA-BRF-Man-Found-Stabbed-to-Death-On-South-Gate-Bike-Trail-0730-201107
30

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             April 29, 2011 Friday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LOS ANGELES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 520 words


Villaraigosa to speak in the Windy City

Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa is scheduled to be in Chicago through today for the
National Summit on City Design.

Villaraigosa will speak on the "new Los Angeles" and its enhanced urban design
at the summit, where mayors will "discuss ways to make cities smart and
sustainable, even in the midst of unprecedented budget difficulties," an aide
said.

While in Chicago, Villaraigosa also is scheduled to meet with Mayor-elect Rahm
Emanuel and David Axelrod, President Barack Obama's top political adviser.

The trip is Villaraigosa's first since a trip to Washington, D.C., in late
March.

CALABASAS

Vandalism at high school called a hate crime: Detectives will now seek hate
crime enhancements to felony vandalism charges against three students arrested
on suspicion of defacing Calabasas High School with anti-Semetic and racist
insults, authorities said Thursday.

The teenagers, whose names were not released because they are minors, were
booked Wednesday on allegations of felony vandalism after they allegedly
admitted to tagging school property with drawings of Hitler, swastikas and
phrases such as "whites only" and "gas chamber," according to the Malibu-Lost
Hills Sheriff's Station.

Investigators did not initially accuse the boys of a hate crime, saying that
they had aimed the insults at specific students and teachers who they felt had
mistreated them, rather than based on race or religion.

But they are now seeking the hate crime enhancement, a decision that will
ultimately be made by the District Attorney's Office based on the evidence
presented to them on Tuesday, according to Capt. Joseph Stephen.

Detectives will also seek reimbursement for damage to the school, which is more
than $6,000.

RIALTO

Engineers blamed in Metrolink accident: Federal safety officials say Metrolink
engineers are probably to blame for a 2008 accident in which a commuter train
scraped against a freight train entering a siding east of Los Angeles.

The collision caused four minor injuries and $25,000 in damage.

The National Transportation Safety Board on Thursday released a final report
that said engineers failed to brake in time to stop the train at a red light.

After the November 2008 mishap near Rialto, Metrolink officials began ordering
trains to slow to 40 mph or less as they approached red signals.

Two months before the accident, another Metrolink train ran a red light and
collided with a freight train in Chatsworth. The accident killed 25 people and
injured 135.

PASADENA

Animator pleads not guilty in beating death of dog: A Pasadena man who works as
an animator with DreamWorks Animation pleaded not guilty Thursday to charges
stemming from the beating death of a neighbor's 16-month-old German shepherd.

Young Song, 40, is charged with one felony count of cruelty to an animal and a
misdemeanor count of petty theft of a dog.

Song allegedly entered his neighbor's yard on April 20, shot the dog with a
pellet gun and returned to the owner's yard a short time later and beat the
muzzled canine with a hammer.

He then allegedly removed the dog's body from the owner's yard.

- Staff and Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday

Pasadena police solicit anonymous tips through Crime Stoppers

BYLINE: By Brenda Gazzar, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words


PASADENA - The Pasadena Police Department has new partners in fighting crime:
John and Jane Doe.

The department recently launched Pasadena Crime Stoppers, an anonymous tip line
that offers possible cash rewards for information that helps solve violent and
other serious crimes in the city.

The Police Department is the newest of nearly 40 law enforcement agencies -
including many in the San Gabriel Valley - participating in the non-profit Los
Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers.

"The police can only really be as effective as our relationship is in our
community," Pasadena Police Lt. Phlunte' Riddle said. "These are their
neighborhoods, their businesses...It's critical they assist in protecting their
own homes and properties."

Anonymous tips from L.A. Regional Crime Stoppers have led to 500 arrests since
its December 2009 launch, including 50 arrests made in June, said Los Angeles
Police Department Officer Nguyet Do, the program's co-coordinator.

The regional program has also recovered over $3 million in narcotics and
property and more than 50 guns.

Pasadena's Crime Stoppers, which was announced by the department on June 10, has
yet to yield any tips.

"The key element is anonymity," Do said. "Nobody will ever know who sent the
information in. We will never know...The whole system is protected through
encryption."

In the San Gabriel Valley, the police departments of Alhambra, Arcadia, Baldwin
Park, Claremont, El Monte, Glendora, La Verne, Monrovia, Monterey Park, San
Gabriel, South Pasadena, Whittier are also participating. All sheriff's stations
in the county are also promoting it to help solve crimes, Do said.

While Pasadena used to belong to a similar anonymous tip line called WeTip, that
program came with a cost while Crime Stoppers is free to law enforcement
agencies, Riddle said.

Rewards of up to $1,000 can be given out for tips that lead to specific arrests,
Do said. However, only one reward of $150 dollars for a narcotics arrest has
been given out regionwide so far.

Information can be provided 24 hours a day, seven days a week about crimes that
have been committed in Pasadena, or other participating areas, by calling
1-800-222-TIPS and leaving detailed information about a crime or criminal
suspect.

You can also text a message by entering the numbers 274637 in the "to" line and
then typing the word TIPLA, a space, and as much specific information as
possible. After hitting "send," Crime Stoppers will reply to the text with a
code that should be kept by the tipster for use if further text dialog is
needed.

You can also submit anonymous information by visiting www.lacrimestoppers.org
online.

Anyone providing information about crimes in the Pasadena area should include
the word "Pasadena" in the tip to help Crime Stoppers relay the information to
the proper department.

Victims, however, should never use Crime Stoppers but instead call 9-1-1 or
their local police departments.

Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers is one of about 300 independent chapters in
the nation.

brenda.gazzar@sgvn.com

626-578-6300, ext. 4496

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              June 7, 2011 Tuesday

Gang member's conviction upheld for Pico Rivera area crime spree

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 206 words


LOS ANGELES - A state appellate court panel today rejected an appeal from a gang
member convicted in a 2006 crime spree in the Pico Rivera area that included the
slaying of a man who was gunned down while strolling with his girlfriend.

Mark Angelo Santa Anna was convicted of first-degree murder, attempted murder,
assault with a firearm, robbery, attempted robbery, being a felon in possession
of a firearm involving crimes between April 2006 and July 2006.

The three-justice panel from California's 2nd District Court of Appeal turned
down Santa Anna's claim that there was insufficient evidence to support his
convictions for some of those crimes, including attempted murder and attempted
robbery, along with the jury's findings that some of the crimes were committed
for the benefit of a criminal street gang.

The murder charge stemmed from the April 20, 2006, slaying of Jorge Suazo, who
was targeted while walking with his girlfriend on Whittier Boulevard near Durfee
Avenue.

Suazo was shot despite denying being in a gang when asked where he was from. His
girlfriend survived a gunshot wound to the back, according to the appellate
court panel's ruling.

Santa Anna was sentenced in January 2010 to a 243-year-to-life term in state
prison.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily Variety

                                 June 21, 2011

Crime pays at laff

SECTION: VPAGE; Film; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 235  words


Jack Black thoroughly enjoyed having Richard Linklater's "Bernie" kick off the
Los Angeles Film Festival on Thursday.

"Are we the bottle of champagne on the christening of this voyage of the
starship Los Angeles Film Festival? That's a sweet spot," Black announced at
L.A. Live. "It's better than being stuck in the middle or the butt-end of the
fest. It's good to be the first one while people are still sober."

Based on a true story, Black plays Bernie Tiede, an East Texas mortician who
befriends and then murders the meanest lady in town, played by Shirley MacLaine.

Black visited his real-life counterpart in prison, and while he admits "it was a
heinous crime," he added, "I wouldn't give him life.... You have to take into
account whether you really think a person is capable of doing it again."

MacLaine quickly proclaimed, "He's not capable of doing it again," but offered
Tiede's lawyer some free advice. "I would tell the defense attorney to plead
temporary insanity, for God's sake!"

The following night, Film District celebrated the U.S. debut of Nicolas Winding
Refn's crime pic "Drive."

Though star Ryan Gosling didn't make the after-party at the Standard, co-star
Albert Brooks was there to talk up his rare chance to play a villain.

"I don't make this kind of movie," said Brooks. "But Nicolas said 'you're the
guy. I need you to play this guy.' I knew what he wanted and I knew I could give
it to him."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Federal prosecutor named LAPD inspector general;
POLICE: He will oversee its disciplinary system.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 303 words


A federal prosecutor and former Army captain was selected Tuesday to head the
civilian watchdog office of the Los Angeles Police Department.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Alex Bustamante will take over Nov. 16 as inspector
general of the Police Commission, monitoring the LAPD's disciplinary system and
reviewing complaints of officer misconduct.

"Alex Bustamante brings a diverse and extensive background to the position of
the inspector general," said Commission President Richard Drooyan. "My
colleagues and I expect that he will continue to build on the great work of his
predecessors."

Bustamante, 39, succeeds Nicole Bershon, who resigned in July to become a Los
Angeles Superior Court commissioner. His salary will be $156,662 a year.

"I'm very honored to have the position," Bustamante said. "I look forward to
working with the commission, the LAPD and the community."

Bustamante has been with the U.S. Attorney's Office since January 2002 and has
served as its financial fraud coordinator since 2008.

He has prosecuted violent and white-collar crimes, in addition to civil rights
violations. In 2006, he won the conviction of four Latino gang members who
murdered an African-American man, marking the first time that federal hate crime
statutes were used against racial violence committed by a street gang.

He has won the U.S. Department of Justice's highest award for excellence, the
Anti-Defamation League's Sherwood Prize for Combating Hate, the International
Chief of Police's Civil Rights Award, the American Bar Association's Hodson
Award, and a Distinguished Service Award from the Army.

As an Army captain, he was stationed in Kosovo for more than two years.

Bustamante has a bachelor's degree from University of California at Berkeley and
a law degree from George Washington University.

cj.lin@dailynews.com

818-713-3738

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Father G: helping gangsters hustle for the greater good

BYLINE: MICHELLE GRIFFIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 314 words


HIS homeboys call him G. In his 23 years working with gangs in Los Angeles'
wildest neighbourhoods, Father Greg Boyle has stared down the barrel of a gun
many times. He shrugs this off. "I never take it personally," he said.

The genial Jesuit with the donnish air is in Melbourne to give a free talk
tonight at the Athenaeum alongside our local priest to the streets, Father Bob
Maguire, as part of a tour funded by the Catholic Church's evangelical office.
The mission statement of Father Boyle's charity, Homeboy Industries, is "nothing
stops a bullet like a job". Gang members are brought off the streets or straight
out of jail to work in one of several small Homeboy and Homegirl-branded
businesses. The T-shirt printing service is the only steady money-maker, Father
Boyle said, bringing in $1 million a year. But they also run a bakery, a taco
stand, a few cafes and a handyman service. "They learn on the job but we allow
people to mistakes," said Father Boyle. Homeboy Industries also runs a school,
an anger management program and a tattoo removal service, offering to erase the
traces of a gangster past. Homeboy Industries nearly collapsed during the
recession as money dried up from customers and philanthropists. With a $US5
million deficit, the organisation laid off 313 staff in May 2010. A year later,
"we're surviving in difficult times", Father Boyle said. But the former gang
members he helps are often not so lucky, he said. "We have a no-felon policy in
the states. After you do your time honestly, you serve a life sentence of
joblessness. Even when unemployment relaxes, they're not going to choose my
folk." Father Boyle's long history of working with gangs has made him a
controversial figure, but Hollywood recently came calling. He advised Twilight:
New Moon director Chris Weitz about gang culture for his film A Better Life,
which opens in the US this week.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Father Greg Boyle, a Jesuit priest from Los Angeles, helps gang
members gain steady employment. PICTURE PENNY STEPHENS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Around Whittier, September 22

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 646 words


SOUTH WHITTIER

County seeks advice on how to spend $39 million

The Los Angeles County Community Development Commission (CDC) will hold a
meeting from 6 to 7:30 p.m. Thursday to seek input on how to spend $39 million
countywide in federal funds.

The meeting will be held at Adventure Park, 10130 S. Gunn Ave. in Whittier.

The money must be spent in low- or moderate-income areas.

Residents' expression of local needs will feed into and help shape the county's
annual "Action Plan."

The plan describes proposed funding activities, which can include, for example,
child-care programs, services for senior citizens, homebuyer assistance, home
repair programs, homeless services, low-interest business loans, graffiti
removal, and street and sewer repairs.

LA MIRADA

Sheriff's officials to host community meeting

Community members are invited to a neighborhood watch and crime prevention
meeting Saturday.

The meeting will be held at 10 a.m. at Garden Hill Elementary School, 14607
Gardenhill Drive, Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. Patrick Valdez said.

Neighborhood watch programs, local crime trends and crime prevention will be
discussed.

For more information, call the sheriff's La Mirada Substation at 562-902-2960.

City celebrates 'Worldwide Day of Play'

The city will partner with children's television channel Nickelodeon and
hundreds of other recreation facilities and programs to encourage youths to get
up and play beginning at 9 a.m. Saturday with a park cleanup at Creek Park,
12021 Santa Gertrudes Ave.

The "Worldwide Day of Play" annual event will include:

Basketball clinic from 9 a.m. to noon at the La Mirada Community Gymnasium,
15105 Alicante Road

Food drive from 9 a.m. to noon at Albertsons, 15200 Rosecrans Ave., and Fresh
and Easy, 15745 Imperial Hwy.

Senior housing visitations from 10 a.m. to noon at The Palms, 13001 La Mirada
Blvd.; La Mirada Vistas, 14129 Adoree St., and Vista Alicante Senior Housing,
15811 E. Alicante Road

Youths who participate in one of these events will receive a free admission
ticket to Splash! at Buccaneer Bay Waterpark, valid Saturday, Sept. 24 or
Sunday, Sept. 25.

Following the events, participants can visit Splash! from noon to 3 p.m. for a
bounce house, a Home Depot workshop, live entertainment and fun booths.

For information or registration, call the city at 562-943-7277 or register
online at www.cityoflamirada.org

WHITTIER

It's Garden Thyme to visit botanic garden

The It's Garden Thyme Garden Club invites the community to its educational bus
trip on Oct. 15 to South Coast Botanic Garden in Palos Verdes Peninsula which
includes a tram tour of the 87 acres.

The trip will also make a stop by Mimi's Cafe for lunch.

The cost is $40 per person and includes the tram tour.

Checks can be made out to "Garden Thyme" and mailed to Anza Smith, 20 Pine
Valley Drive, Rancho Mirage, CA, 92270-1606.

The deadline for reservations is Sept. 30.

For information or reservations, contact Anza Smith at 760-321-0578.

Dodgeball League registration ends today

The Boys & Girls Club of Whittier is hosting a co-ed Dodgeball League for all
ninth- through 12th-graders.

Registration ends today and the cost is $10 for all club members and $25 for
non-club members.

Applications can be picked up and returned to the clubhouse, 7905 S. Greenleaf
Ave., between 1:30 to 6 p.m.

For information, contact Shanna Renken, athletic director, at 562-945-3787, ext.
110.

MONTEBELLO

'Story Hour' at The Shops at Montebello

The Simon Kidgits Club and Simon and Schuster Children's Publishing presents
"Story Hour" at 11 a.m. Friday at The Shops at Montebello's play area, 2134
Montebello Town Center.

The event is designed for families and will include stories and activities.

Raffles will take place with book prizes.

Additional event dates are Oct. 21, Nov. 11 and Dec. 9.

For information, contact Sam Carpenter at 323-722-1776.

Send submissions for "Around Whittier" to news.wdn@sgvn.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

Man claims responsibility for shooting at Chinese consulate in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 108 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Los Angeles, 15 December: An Asian man in his sixties turned himself in to the
Los Angeles police on Thursday afternoon, claiming responsibility to the
shooting at the Chinese Consulate-General building.

Captain Steven Sambar, LAPD major crimes division commanding officer, told
reporters on Thursday [15 December] evening that the man fired several rounds of
gun shots at the Consulate building.

The man turned himself in at around 4:45 pm [local time] local time to the
Wilshire command of LAPD.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0320gmt 16 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

BRIEF: Man Found Shot To Death in Rancho Palos Verdes

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


July 30--RANCHO PALOS VERDES -- The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is
investigating the shooting death of an unidentified black man.

Deputies found the 22-year-old man's body about 10 p.m. Thursday in the 56000
block of Palos Verdes Drive South.

Sheriff's officials have released few details, only saying that hikers first
found the body and called 9-1-1. The man suffered gunshot wounds to his upper
torso.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau, 323-890-5500.

Tipsters wishing to remain anonymous may call "Crime Stoppers" by dialing
800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES (274637),
or using the website http://lacrimestoppers.org

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110730-5LA-BRF-Man-Found-Shot-To-Death-in-Rancho-Palos-Verdes-0730-20110730

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday

Fugitive Crime Boss James "Whitey" Bulger Arrested in Santa Monica

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 403 words


June 23--SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- Legendary Boston crime boss James "Whitey"
Bulger, who was the inspiration for the film "The Departed," has been arrested
in Santa Monica.

The 81-year-old has been on the run for 16 years since fleeing Boston in 1995.
He was tipped off by a former Boston FBI agent that he was about to be indicted.

Bulger was arrested Wednesday night at a residence without incident, the FBI
confirmed.

His longtime girlfriend, Catherine Greig, was also arrested.

Authorities had been conducting a surveillance operation in the area, but no
other details were immediately available.

Bulger and Greig will make an appearance in Los Angeles federal court on
Thursday.

On Monday, the FBI announced a media campaign to find Bulger, who is wanted in
connection with 19 murders, racketeering, drug deals and other crimes.

A 30-second television ad started running in 14 cities on Tuesday.

The ad mentioned that Greig, who was thought to be traveling with Bulger, had
several plastic surgeries before going on the run, and was known to frequent
beauty salons.

Bulger was one of the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives. A $2,000,000 reward was
being offered for information leading to his arrest.

The last credible sighting of Bulger was in London in 2002, according to the
FBI.

There were also reports that Bulger had been spotted in Orange County, prompting
speculation that he might be the so-called "elderly bandit" targeting banks in
the area.

The FBI has said that is a possibility, but they have not confirmed anything.

His alleged crimes spanned over a decade, from the early 1970s to the mid-1980s.

Bulger was the head of the Winter Hill Gang, and also an FBI informant,
providing tips about his gang's main rival, the New England Mob.

His younger brother, William, was the head of the Massachusetts Senate for 17
years and the president of the University of Massachusetts for seven years.

He resigned the job at the university under political pressure in August 2003,
two months after he testified about his brother before a congressional
committee.

William said he had not heard from his brother and did not know where he might
be hiding.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110623-5LA-Fugitive-Crime
-Boss-James-Whitey-Bulger-Arrested-in-Santa-Monica-0623-20110623

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

South Pasadena Crime Blotter, April 8

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


The South Pasadena Police Department reported the following crimes between March
30 and April 5.

A 50-year-old Los Angeles woman was arrested on suspicion of attempting to steal
cosmetics in the 1700 block of Garfield Avenue on April 3.

A 56-year-old Alhambra man was arrested on suspicion of attempting to steal
liquor in the 1700 block of Garfield Avenue on April 3.

A commercial burglary was reported on March 22 in the 800 block of Mission
Street. Suspects took a generator and power tools.

A middle school student was assaulted by three other middle school students on
April 1 at Fair Oaks Avenue and Oak Street. The three hit and kicked the victim
until a witness approached them.

An assault was reported on March 21 in the 300 block of Pasadena Avenue. The
suspect and victim got into an argument. The suspect slapped the victim.

A 29-year-old Monterey Park man was arrested on suspicion of possessing burglary
tools. The suspect was reportedly seen loitering in the 900 block of Fair Oaks
Avenue around 2 a.m.

A juvenile was arrested on suspicion of possessing marijuana on April 5 in the
1900 block of Fremont Avenue.

A 57-year-old South Pasadena man who is a registered sex offender failed to
register with the city and has been out of compliance since 2008.

A 25-year-old woman from Monrovia was arrested for driving under the influence
on April 3 in the 400 block of Fair Oaks Avenue.

A 59-year-old Pasadena man was arrested for driving under the influence on March
31 at Huntington Drive and Fremont Avenue.

A 46-year-old Gardena man was arrested on suspicion of trespassing on April 5 in
the 1100 block of Orange Grove.

An identity theft was reported on March 30 at Comerica Bank in the 800 block of
Fair Oaks Avenue. The suspect opened a checking account and deposited checks
drawn on closed accounts. The suspect withdrew cash from the account before the
checks cleared.

A male juvenile was arrested on suspicion of vandalism on March 30 at South
Pasadena High School after a faculty member reportedly saw him writing graffiti
on the wall.

From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                NATIONAL EDITION

TRENDS & INNOVATIONS

SECTION: TO THE POINT; TRENDS & INNOVATIONS; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 180 words


Cheap OLEDs become efficient

Organic light-emitting diodes already glow brightly in computer monitors and
cellphones. Though they can be made to be flexible, the most efficient,
state-of-the-art versions are printed on stiff glass. But engineers in Toronto
say they've created the world's most efficient OLEDs on flexible plastic, which
rival the best glass versions. And since the plastic base is less expensive and
lighter, it promises new generations of cheaper, flexible and shatter-proof
screens.

Math formula can tag gangs

A new algorithm may prove useful in helping law enforcement determine which
street gangs are involved in specific violent crimes. UCLA mathematicians,
working with the Los Angeles Police Dept., created the formula, the first of its
type. Using the math algorithm, the scientists analyzed more than 1,000 gang
crimes and suspected crimes, roughly half of them unsolved, that took place in a
10-year span. The formula then analyzes recent historical events in a community
and compares them with the database to determine which gang likely committed the
crime.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday

BRIEF: Two Men Killed in Whittier Drive-By Shooting

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words


Aug. 28--WHITTIER -- Detectives are investigating the early morning drive-by
shooting death of two men, one of them an Sheriff's Explorer.

Los Angeles County Sheriff's homicide detectives were called about 4 a.m. to the
scene of a shooting in the 11800 block of Painter Avenue. They arrived to find
two men shot to death.

One of the shooting victims was identified as Cesar Rodriguez, 19, an Explorer
at the Sheriff's Norwalk station. The other victim has not yet been identified.

Witnesses told detectives that Rodriguez and the other man were standing in
front of a home when a gray Scion drove in front of them. The car's driver
pointed a handgun at them and fired several times, killing them, officials said.

Detectives are now seeking more information.

Anyone with information about the shooting is urged to call Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department Homicide Bureau, 323-890-5500.

If you prefer to provide information ANONYMOUSLY, you may call "Crime Stoppers"
by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to
CRIMES (274637), or using the website http://lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110828-5LA-BRF-Two-Men-Killed-in-Whittier-Drive-By-Shooting-0828-20110828

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily Variety

                                 August 1, 2011

Cops, robbers for Grillo

SECTION: NEWS; Film; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 179  words


As buzz continues to grow for "Warrior," Frank Grillo - who plays Joel
Edgerton's trainer in the September release from Lionsgate - is setting up his
next pair of pics.

Grillo is set to play a gangster in Warner Bros.' ensemble crime epic "The
Gangster Squad" and he'll have a key supporting role in the indie cop drama "End
of Watch," starring Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Pena.

"Gangster Squad," which stars Sean Penn, Ryan Gosling, Josh Brolin and Emma
Stone, with Will Beal penning the script and Ruben Fleischer directing, is based
on a Los Angeles Times series that chronicled the LAPD's efforts to keep East
Coast mobsters out of Los Angeles in the 1940s.

Grillo will play a Chicago gangster .

"End of Watch" follows the longtime partnership of two LAPD officers, played by
Gyllenhaal and Pena. Grillo would play their tough commanding officer.

Grillo can be seen next in "Warrior." He also recently finished production on
"Lay the Favorite," starring Rebecca Hall and Bruce Willis, as well as "The
Grey," directed by Joe Carnahan.

Grillo is repped by CAA and Management 360.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Reed Business Information, US, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Michael Pena joins cast of crime drama

BYLINE: Edmonton Journal

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; In Production-; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 148  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Crash actor Michael Pena has joined the all-star cast of Gangster Squad, a crime
drama set in 1940s Los Angeles.

The Warner Bros. project centres on how in the 1940s, amid corruption and chaos,
the LAPD created a unit called the Gangster Squad to keep the East Coast mafia
out of the city.

It is based on a seven-part Los Angeles Times article.

Josh Brolin is starring as John O'Mara, one of the few cops not on the payroll
of gangster Mickey Cohen, being portrayed by Sean Penn.

Ryan Gosling, meanwhile, will play Sgt. Jerry Wooters, a good cop who loves the
bachelor life.

Pena plays an officer with a Mexican heritage who is eager to prove himself to
the squad.

The actor, whose recent credits include Battle: Los Angeles and The Lincoln
Lawyer, next stars in 30 Minutes or Less with Jesse Eisenberg and Danny McBride.
Both 30 Minutes and Gangster Squad are being directed by Ruben Fleischer.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 11, 2011 Friday

Nine arrested in High Desert gang sweep

BYLINE: By Joe Nelson, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


Nine people have been arrested in a gang sweep by San Bernardino County
sheriff's deputies spanning the High Desert, Los Angeles and the San Gabriel
Valley.

The arrests on Tuesday capped a yearlong investigation into an infiltration of
the High Desert region by Los Angeles and San Gabriel Valley-based gang members
trying to set up an illegal drug enterprise. They are believed responsible for
crimes including home invasion robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, extortion,
kidnapping, witness intimidation and murder.

Among those arrested were Daniel "Danny Boy" Lechuga, 35; Denise "Baby Loca"
Hererra, 24; Ivan "Trusty" Montero, 26; Joel "Bouncer" Pompa, 32; Jessica
Rodriguez, 36; Regina Chavira, 40; Angel "Bandit" Aranda, 39; Hugo Manzano, 31;
and Amanda Ortega, 31.

Karen Hunt, spokeswoman for the Victorville sheriff's office, said home invasion
robberies in Victorville are typically indicative of gang members retaliating
against one another for drug deals gone awry.

"I haven't seen any home robberies in our city that weren't related to some
narcotic or gang activity where somebody owed somebody for drugs," Hunt said.

Investigators from the Victorville SMASH (San Bernardino Movement Against Street
Hoodlums) team uncovered numerous crimes throughout the course of its
investigation involving the lowest level drug dealers to the highest ranking
gang members, according to a sheriff's news release.

Tuesday's sweep was part of a joint effort between the Victorville, Adelanto and
Apple Valley sheriff's stations.

The suspects have been charged with such offenses as participating in a criminal
street gang, conspiracy to commit crimes, illicit sales of narcotics, weapons
and parole violations, extortion, kidnapping and assault with a deadly weapon.
Each faces a potential sentence of life in prison without the possibility of
parole. An exodus of gang members and their families to the High Desert began
about a decade ago, when affordable housing prices attracted them to the region
from the Los Angeles basin and the San Bernardino Valley. The influx of gang
members brought increasing crime rates and declining property values.

Law enforcement pushed to get its arms around the issue quickly, establishing
gang suppression teams solely for the High Desert region. In 2005, the District
Attorney's Office established a Gang Prosecution Unit to focus solely on the
escalating gang problem in the county.

Britt Imes, a supervising deputy district attorney in the Gang Prosecution Unit,
said prosecutions of gang members have remained fairly consistent since 2005,
hitting a peak in 2007 due to three large-scale gang investigations, one
involving the Vagos outlaw motorcycle gang.

He said the ebb and flow of gang members in the High Desert can mainly be
attributed to territory and market - when one gang leaves another moves in to
establish a corner of the drug market in that area.

"It's a steady existence, whether they're gang members from Ontario, Norwalk,
Compton or the San Fernando Valley, we run into them on a fairly regular basis
and prosecute them on a regular basis," Imes said. "If one gang disappears
another shows up to take its place."

joe.nelson@inlandnewspapers.com

909-386-3874

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                January 25, 2011

Game news: L.A. Noire due for May release

SECTION: LEISURE VIDEO GAMES PREVIEWS

LENGTH: 226  words


Rockstar's next epic, L.A. Noire has been confirmed for a May 20 release on the
Xbox 360 and Playstation 3.

"L.A. Noire breaks new ground for us," said Sam Houser, founder of Rockstar
Games. "Its intense blend of action and real detective work defies genre
conventions to create a unique and captivating thriller."

Set amid the violence and corruption of post-World War II Los Angeles, L.A.
Noire is a crime thriller that seamlessly blends crime-solving, clue-finding,
car chases and shoot-outs with revolutionary new interrogation-based gameplay
that will allow players to read characters' emotions in order to reveal the
truth.

Players will take on the role of Cole Phelps, a decorated war veteran, who rises
through the ranks of the LAPD by solving a series of gruesome murders and other
crimes that bring him face-to-face with the dark heart of Los Angeles during
Hollywood's Golden Age.

Developed in a special partnership with Rockstar Games and Team Bondi, L.A.
Noire employs ground-breaking new MotionScan performance-scanning technology.
MotionScan utilizes 32 high-definition cameras to capture actors' faces in 3D,
transferring every aspect of their performance into the game, enabling players
for the first time to lip-read in-game characters and to read every facial
expression down to the finest detail.

%youtube('q2EG5J05048',width='300',height='199')

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Saliva test used as an age detector; New technique accurate to within five years
could help crime-scene investigators narrow search for suspects

BYLINE: Teresa Smith, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 245  words


Geneticists say they've come up with a new way of using saliva to tell how old
you are.

Researchers at the University of California in Los Angeles say crime-scene
investigators could use the technique to pinpoint a culprit's age, helping to
narrow the police search for crime suspects. By analyzing the traces of saliva
left in a tooth bite or on a coffee cup, it's believed lab experts could narrow
the age of a criminal suspect to a five-year range.

"Our approach supplies one answer to the enduring quest for reliable markers of
aging," said principal investigator Dr. Eric Vilain, a professor at the David
Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, in a statement. "With just a saliva sample,
we can accurately predict a person's age without knowing anything else about
them."

The research, which appears in the Wednesday's online edition of the Public
Library of Science, looked at a process called methylation -a chemical
modification of one of the four building blocks that make up our DNA.
"Methylation patterns shift as we grow older and contribute to aging-related
disease," Vilain said.

Using saliva samples from 34 pairs of identical male twins ages 21 to 55,
researchers scoured the men's genomes and identified 88 sites on the DNA that
strongly correlated methylation to age. They replicated their findings in a
general population of 31 men and 29 women ages 18 to 70 and were able to
correctly predict a person's age within five years -an unprecedented level of
accuracy.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: 8-Person Burglary Ring Busted in Thousand Oaks, 'Ring Leader' Still at
Large

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 207 words


Dec. 09--THOUSAND OAKS -- After weeks of investigating, deputies busted an
eight-person burglary ring in Thousand Oaks.

The suspects are accused of multiple commercial burglaries and thefts from
vehicles.

Seven of the eight suspects are juvenile, both girls and boys between the ages
of 15 and 17.

The teenagers face a variety of felony charges including commercial burglary,
auto theft, grand theft, possession of stolen property and violation of
probation.

Police are still searching for the eighth suspect -- the alleged ring leader --
identified as 19-year-old Rusty Sellner.

Authorities say Sellner is wanted in connection with the felony investigations
and he is accused of evading deputies during a vehicle pursuit.

The teenager is described as a white male, 5'10", 150 pounds, with brown hair
and brown eyes.

Deputies believe he is trying to avoid capture and he may be in the Newbury Park
area.

If you have any information, you're asked to call Detective Allen Devers at
(805) 494-8222.

Or, you can call Ventura County Crime Stoppers at 800-222-TIPS (8477). You could
be rewarded up to $1,000. Your call may remain anonymous.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111209-5LA-BRF-8-Person-Burglary-Ring-Busted-in-Thousand-Oaks-Ring-Leader-Stil
l-at-Large-1209-20111209

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday

FBI's Most Wanted: Who remains on the list after Bulger arrest

BYLINE: From the FBI

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 188 words


-- Semion Mogilevich, alleged mastermind of a scheme to defraud stock investors
in the 1990s.

-- Glen Stewart Godwin, a convicted murderer who escaped in 1987 from Folsom
State Prison in California. He was arrested that year in Mexico and convicted of
drug trafficking. In a Mexican prison he allegedly killed another inmate in
1991, then escaped five months later.

-- Jason Derek Brown, who allegedly killed a Phoenix armored car's guard in 2004
and fled with the money.

-- Joe Luis Saenz, who allegedly killed three people in Los Angeles in 1998 -- a
girlfriend, whom he also raped, and two rival gang members -- and a fourth 10
years later, also in Los Angeles County.

-- Victor Manuel Gerena, who allegedly stole $7 million in a 1983 armed robbery
of a Connecticut company.

-- Eduardo Ravelo, indicted in Texas in 2008 for alleged criminal activities
including racketeering, money laundering and drug crimes.

-- Robert William Fisher, allegedly killed his wife and two children and blew up
the family's Scottsdale, Ariz., house in 2001.

-- Alexis Flores, accused of kidnapping and killing a 5-year-old girl in
Philadelphia in 2000.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday

Nine arrested in High Desert gang sweep

BYLINE: Joe Nelson, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 644 words


Nine people have been arrested in a gang sweep by San Bernardino County
sheriff's deputies spanning the High Desert, Los Angeles and the San Gabriel
Valley.

The arrests on Tuesday capped a year-long investigation into an infiltration of
the High Desert region by Los Angeles and San Gabriel Valley-based gang members
trying to set up an illegal drug enterprise. They are believed responsible for
myriad crimes including home invasion robbery, assault with a deadly weapon,
extortion, kidnapping, witness intimidation and murder.

Among those arrested were Daniel "Danny Boy" Lechuga, 35, Denise "Baby Loca"
Hererra, 24, Ivan "Trusty" Montero, 26, Joel "Bouncer" Pompa, 32, Jessica
Rodriguez, 36, Regina Chavira, 40, Angel "Bandit" Aranda, 39, Hugo Manzano, 31,
and Amanda Ortega, 31.

Karen Hunt, spokeswoman for the Victorville sheriff's office, said home invasion
robberies in Victorville are typically indicative of gang members retaliating
against one another for drug deals gone awry.

"I haven't seen any home robberies in our city that weren't related to some
narcotic or gang activity where somebody owed somebody for drugs," Hunt said.

Investigators from the Victorville SMASH (San Bernardino Movement Against Street
Hoodlums) team uncovered numerous crimes throughout the course of its
investigation involving the lowest level drug dealers to the highest ranking
gang members, according to a sheriff's news release.

Tuesday's sweep was part of a joint effort between the Victorville, Adelanto and
Apple Valley sheriff's stations.

The suspects have been charged with such offenses as participating in a criminal
street gang, conspiracy to commit crimes, illicit sales of narcotics, weapons
and parole violations, extortion, kidnapping and assault with a deadly weapon.
Each faces a potential sentence of life in prison without the possibility of
parole.

An exodus of gang members and their families to the High Desert began about a
decade ago, when affordable housing prices attracted them to the region from the
Los Angeles basin and the San Bernardino Valley. The influx of gang members
brought increasing crime rates and declining property values.

Law enforcement pushed to get its arms around the issue quickly, establishing
gang suppression teams solely for the High Desert region. In 2005, the District
Attorney's Office established a Gang Prosecution Unit to focus solely on the
escalating gang problem in the county.

Britt Imes, a supervising deputy district attorney in the Gang Prosecution Unit,
said prosecutions of gang members have remained fairly consistent since 2005,
hitting a peak in 2007 due to three large-scale gang investigations, one
involving the Vagos outlaw motorcycle gang.

He said the ebb and flow of gang members in the High Desert can mainly be
attributed to territory and market - when one gang leaves another moves in to
establish a corner of the drug market in that area.

"It's a steady existence, whether they're gang members from Ontario, Norwalk,
Compton or the San Fernando Valley, we run into them on a fairly regular basis
and prosecute them on a regular basis," Imes said. "If one gang disappears
another shows up to take its place."

For example, when prosecutors began cracking down on one Pomona-based gang who
set up shop in the High Desert, the heat became too intense for the gang. Their
activity cooled and they eventually moved on or wound up in prison, Imes said.

Then, another gang moved in to take their place.

"Usually, the next generation thinks they're smarter than the first. They see it
as open territory where they can make money and do business. Those two aspects
probably contribute a lot to how the High Desert area is viewed (by gang
members)," said Imes. "When you take out an existing power structure, there's a
power vacuum, and someone has to move in to take over."

joe.nelson@inlandnewspapers.com , 909-386-3874

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LOS ANGELES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 227 words


Special election to replace Runner today

A special election will be held today in parts of the Antelope, Santa Clarita
and San Fernando valleys to choose a successor to state Sen. George Runner, who
resigned the 17th District office after being elected to the state Board of
Equalization in November.

The candidates are former GOP Assemblywoman Sharon Runner, who is Runner's wife,
and and Democratic activist Darren W. Parker.

Polls are open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. For polling places or other questions, call
800-815-2666 or go to

lavote.net.

LOS ANGELES

Attorney gets 120 days in jail in smuggling attempt: Attorney Michael Inman was
sentenced Monday to 120 days in jail and three years' probation after he pleaded
no contest to trying to smuggle

heroin into the Criminal Courts' lockup area where inmates are kept.

Inman was arrested June15 after he entered a secure area of the courthouse to
visit two clients in a burglary/stolen property case. Deputies using a
drug-sniffing dog said they discovered a baggie of heroin in a secure area where
he was the only person waiting.

The only Michael Inman registered with the State Bar of California practices in
L.A., has been disciplined by the legal regulatory agency once before and is
currently being investigated for financial irregularities. He is listed as
inactive on the State Bar's website.

- Staff and Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday

State briefs: Latino gang drives blacks from city, feds say

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 386 words


LOS ANGELES
Latino gang drives blacks from city

A Latino gang conspired to rid a Southern California city of its black residents
through intimidation, threats and violence dating back to the early 1990s to
exert its influence and show its loyalty to the Mexican Mafia prison gang,
according to a federal racketeering indictment unsealed Tuesday.

More than 50 people were charged as authorities made early morning raids
targeting the Varrio Azusa 13 gang. Federal prosecutors said the gang engaged in
a host of crimes ranging from drug trafficking to hate crimes that have hobbled
Azusa, a city of about 45,000 residents near Los Angeles.

Azusa Police Chief Robert Garcia said the campaign was partly motivated by race
prejudice. But he said it also grew from orders from Mexican Mafia gang leaders
to organize their drug business by "eliminating competition so they can have a
monopoly on drug sales."

SAN FRANCISCO
Priest faces abuse allegations in Ireland

A former priest in Northern California is back in his native Ireland to face
criminal charges that he sexually abused boys there in the 1970s and early
1980s, federal officials said.

Patrick Joseph McCabe, 75, did not enter a plea during his arraignment in a
Dublin courtroom Tuesday to 10 counts of sexual abuse involving six boys.

He had been held in Alameda County since turning himself in to U.S. authorities
last year after the charges in Ireland were filed. He also faces molestation
claims in the U.S.

LOS ANGELES
Circumcision foe abandons ballot push

The primary backer of an effort to get a ban on circumcision on the ballot in
Santa Monica is abandoning her push, saying the proposed legislation had been
misrepresented as an effort to impinge on religious freedom. A similar measure
in San Francisco is scheduled for a fall vote.

Jena Troutman, a mother of two young boys who began the process of trying to get
a ban on the 2012 municipal ballot in Santa Monica, said the media distorted the
effort.

"The religious opposition really rose up, and I never intended it to be about
that at all," Troutman said. "Ninety-five percent of babies who are circumcised
have nothing to do with religion; that's what I was focused on. Once I
discovered this bill was not going to open up the conversation but was closing
it down, I wanted no part of it."

Herald wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A suspected member of the Varrio Azusa 13 gang is in custody Tuesday
after a raid in Irwindale.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday

BRIEF: Reward Offered After Man Robs Camarillo Bank

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 149 words


Sept. 28--CAMARILLO, Calif. -- A $1,000 reward is being offered to anyone with
information leading to the arrest of a man who robbed a bank Tuesday in
Camarillo.

The white man in his 40s walked into the Chase Bank at 5291 Mission Oaks Blvd.
about 1 p.m. and handed a note to a teller demanding cash. The teller complied
and the man calmly walked out of the bank with an undisclosed amount of cash,
Camarillo police officials said.

The FBI is handling the investigation. Anyone with information about the
robber's identity is urged to contct Special Agent Pat Conley at 310-477-6565.

Ventura County Crime Stoppers is offering the reward. Callers may remain
anonymous. Call Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477. The FBI is also offering an
unspecified reward for information on the robber.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110928-5LA-BRF-Reward-Offered-After-Man-Robs-Camarillo-Bank-0928-20110928

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

Video games make leap with 'Noire'

BYLINE: Ian Hamilton Register writer, The Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A

LENGTH: 332 words



HIGHLIGHT: Game set in 1940s Los Angeles captures real emotions - a break from
use of cut scenes - that players must identify to solve crimes.


Whether you play video games or not, the achievement of "L.A. Noire" is worth
noting.

Taking up the role of a 1940s police detective in Los Angeles, players in the
new video game from Rockstar Gamesare required to pick up on subtle body
language, emotions and clues to solve crimes. Players search crime scenes across
Los Angeles, interviewing suspects, witnesses and victims along the way while
trying to read their real emotions.

The achievement of conveying real emotions is astounding because video games
with involved stories like "L.A. Noire" tend to mostly use cut scenes -
pre-designed computer generated graphics that are typically out of place in a
medium built on interaction. Instead of playing the game you end up watching
mini-movies, breaking up the interactivity.

In the same way silent-movie directors used text titles to deliver dialogue and
information that couldn't be conveyed in a silent frame, video game designers
use cut scenes to tell the story that can't be conveyed within the world gamers
play in.

But Rockstar has taken real actors (some you might recognize) and captured their
performances in an incredibly detailed way and delivered them into the game.

When you play "L.A. Noire," instead of getting popped out of the game play for a
moment, you feel engaged and captivated by the performances. You have to guess,
using intuition, whether the person is lying or telling the truth in order to
solve the crime. So when you interview a teenager who had been forced to have
sex with a movie producer in hopes of getting a part in a Hollywood B-movie, it
affects you. You want to help her. When you question a child molester who is a
suspect in a killing, you really hate the guy. And, at the same time, you also
are forced to recognize he might not have committed the crime.

"L.A. Noire" isn't for everyone, but it's at least worth noting the achievement.
To use the analogy of film, video games just moved into the era of sound.



949-229-8426 or ihamilton@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "L.A. Noire" features LAPD Detective Cole Phelps solving crimes in 1947
Hollywood.

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

BRIEF: 17 Alleged Gang Members Arrested in Robbery Ring Probe

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 208 words


Aug. 18--LONG BEACH, Calif. -- Authorities say 17 suspected Asian gang members
were arrested in a major gang sweep in Long Beach and Orange County.

The sweep targeted 47 locations, and was the result of a four-month,
multi-agency investigation.

The suspects arrested were allegedly involved in crimes including home invasion
robberies, burglaries, elder abuse, identity theft and forgery.

Authorities seized cash, forged checks, weapons and drugs from the raided
locations.

The suspects are part of five different Asian gangs, police said, who are
teaming up to commit lucrative crimes.

"What's very unusual is to get rival and allied gangs to work together in
robbery crews," Long Beach Police Chief Jim McDonnell said.

"We're seeing something here that's a new trend."

The Long Beach, Fountain Valley, Garden Grove and Westminster police departments
were all involved in the operation, along with deputies from the Orange County
and Los Angeles County sheriff's departments.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110818-5LA-BRF-17-Alleged-Gang-Members-Arrested-in-Robbery-Ring-Probe-0818-201
10818

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

South Pasadena police blotter, August 26

BYLINE: Staff Reports

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


Theft, fraud and assault reported

The South Pasadena Police Department reported the following crimes from Aug. 16
to Aug. 24:

A woman had a terrifying ride on Fair Oaks Avenue Aug. 18 after someone shot out
her windshield with what was later determined to be a BB gun.

The woman, a 56-year-old Los Angeles resident, was driving her Honda Accord in
the 400 block of Fair Oaks when she heard what she thought was a gunshot and her
windshield shattered, South Pasadena police Sgt. Brian Solinsky said.

Officials believed the BB was fired from a nearby apartment complex, he said.
The investigation was ongoing.

On Aug. 19, in the 1900 block of Huntington Drive, a fraud was reported. A
suspect gained access to a victim's email address and sent a scam email to all
of victim's contacts, indicating that victim has been injured and needed money
wired to England.

A man attempted to steal a vehicle Aug. 23 in the 100 block of Monterey Road. A
witness hears glass breaking and sees the man inside the vehicle tampering with
the ignition. The witness went outside and the man ran away.

An employee at the Vons in 1000 block of Fair Oaks Avenue Aug. 23 saw a San Luis
Obispo man enter the store and steal some medicine. As the man exited the store
the alarm sensors went off and alerted police, who arrested him outside the
store.

A theft was reported Aug. 18 in the 1700 block of Fremont Avenue.

Police are on the look out for a male Hispanic, 5-foot-6, 180 lbs, in his early
to mid 20s involving an Aug. 18 incident near the intersection of Meridian
Avenue and El Centro Street. A 35-year-old woman was walking on the street when
the suspect, riding a bicycle, grabbed her in the buttocks area.

A case of identity theft was reported Aug. 16 in 1200 block of Huntington drive.
The victim's personal information was obtained via two cell phone accounts.

- From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Man charged with nine armed robberies in El Monte, Arcadia and surrounding areas

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 121 words


EL MONTE - A man charged with the armed robberies of nine area businesses in
late May and early June pleaded not guilty at the El Monte Courthouse on Monday.

Anselmo Rincon, 33, was arrested on Thursday at a gas station in the 3200 block
of Santa Anita Avenue in El Monte following a joint operation by investigators
from the Arcadia, Covina and El Monte police departments and the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department's Major Crimes Bureau.

According to investigators, Rincon used a replica handgun to commit the
robberies. The replica was found in his car at the time of his arrest.

Rincon is being held at the Men's Central Jail in Los Angeles on $470,000 bail.
He is due back in court at the Pomona Superior Court on July 11.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Globe (Worthington, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Arrest made in last week's shooting

BYLINE: Justine Wettschreck, The Daily Globe, Worthington, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 845 words


Jan. 14--WORTHINGTON -- A suspect wanted in connection with last weekend's
shooting on Sherwood Street in Worthington has been taken into custody in
California, according to the Worthington Police Department.

Ulises Mendez, 20, of Worthington, was arrested after exiting a bus in Los
Angeles, California.

"We are very grateful for the assistance of the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension,
other law enforcement agencies and especially the Los Angeles Police Department
for making Mendez's arrest a priority," said Worthington Public Safety Director
Mike Cumiskey via e-mail. "We are elated to get Mendez off the street and locked
up to face justice. Technology has made our country much smaller and we are glad
the city council and Worthington taxpayers have allowed us to be innovative in
crime prevention, crime deterrence and crime solution."

Charges were filed against Mendez in Nobles County District Court Thursday, but
the document was sealed until his capture was secured. He is charged with eight
felonies -- attempted murder in the first degree, attempted murder in the second
degree, dangerous weapon-drive by shooting-occupied target, two counts of
second-degree assault with a dangerous weapon, attempted second-degree assault
with a dangerous weapon, second-degree riot and reckless discharge of a firearm
within a municipality-dangerous weapon.

According to the criminal complaint, dispatch was informed of a shooting at 2:33
a.m. Jan. 9 in the 1500 block of Sherwood Street. At approximately the same
time, a vehicle containing several screaming women approached a Worthington
Police officer on 12th Street. One of the women said she lived on Sherwood
Street and that someone was shooting at her house.

The officer went to her address and found a woman on the front steps. As he
exited his squad car, he found two .22 caliber shell casings on the ground.
After verifying the suspects had left, he secured the residence.

Other officers were asked to the Castlewood Apartments on Cecilee Street, where
the incident was said to have started. A police sergeant arriving at the
Sherwood Street scene found more shell casings. He spoke with the woman who had
been in front of the house, who allegedly identified the shooter as Mendez.

Described as 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighing approximately 145 pounds, Mendez
is a Hispanic male with black hair and brown eyes. It's the tattoos that get
attention. He has dog paw prints on both temples, a letter B on one cheek and
writing on his other cheek and neck.

The sergeant was informed there was someone at the hospital with a gunshot wound
and sent another officer to obtain statements.

The victim identified Mendez as being involved in the shooting, and said he had
left the scene in a maroon Chevrolet Impala.

According to various statements taken by authorities, a group of people had left
the Long Branch Saloon and headed to a party at the Castlewood Apartments,
arriving around 1 a.m.

Another woman was already at the party, as was Mendez, who some referred to as
Flaco.

Mendez's brother allegedly told the woman that Mendez had stolen her cell phone
and called people with it, so she confronted him.

Another man didn't like the way Mendez spoke to the woman, so he allegedly
punched Mendez in the face, which led to a scuffle of alleged hitting and
punching among several people.

At some point during that scuffle, Mendez allegedly tried to hit the woman with
a vodka bottle, but another male took it away from Mendez, then grabbed a second
bottle Mendez had grabbed to throw at a different person and threw it in a snow
bank outside the apartment.

Some of the party-goers went back to the Sherwood Street residence.

Another group of friends were at Perkins when the woman Mendez had attacked with
a bottle called them. Concerned for her safety, they went to pick her up on
Sherwood Street.

As they waited for one girl's boyfriend to arrive, the woman told them what had
happened, according to one person who was in the car.

Witness accounts state there were up to six people in the car that drove up to
them, and several got out.

Those waiting in the first car were able to identify Mendez and described the
long gun with a curved clip.

When the Impala drove up, the driver of the first car hit the gas to leave.

In the backseat, the victim of the shooting ducked her head down, she told an
officer later, but was shot in her thigh.

Her injuries are non-life threatening.

Several others in the car have been tentatively identified, and according to
Cumiskey, law enforcement in looking into charging others in the incident.

During the investigation, an empty vodka bottle was found where a man said he
had taken it from Mendez and thrown it, and officers located 21 expended .22
shell casings.

To see more of The Daily Globe, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dglobe.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Daily Globe, Worthington, Minn.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110114-QG-Arrest-made-in-last-week-s-shooting-0114-20110114

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QG


                         Copyright 2011 The Daily Globe


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patrick O. Hunnius


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick O. Hunnius
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Dennis D. Resh


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dennis D. Resh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael S. Lurey


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael S. Lurey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Cameron W. Fox


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cameron W. Fox
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Bonita Moore


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bonita Moore
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Gavin Hachiya Wasserman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gavin Hachiya Wasserman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Mark A. Neubauer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark A. Neubauer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Justice Orville A. Armstrong


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice Orville A. Armstrong
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jeffrey C. Soza


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeffrey C. Soza
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patric M. Verrone


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patric M. Verrone
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Alexandra Denman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alexandra Denman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             111 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Russell T. Ginise


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Russell T. Ginise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Arlene Colman-Schwimmer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arlene Colman-Schwimmer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Mark T. Cramer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark T. Cramer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Mollie F. Benedict


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mollie F. Benedict
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Carolyn C. Burger


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Carolyn C. Burger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: LeAnne E.Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E.Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Commr. Steff Padilla


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Commr. Steff Padilla
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Harvey I. Saferstein


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harvey I. Saferstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David R. Stepp


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David R. Stepp
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Michael J.Wise


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael J.Wise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Ritu M. Hasan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ritu M. Hasan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Michelle Inouye Schultz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michelle Inouye Schultz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hon. Arnold H. Gold


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Arnold H. Gold
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Bernard S. Kamine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bernard S. Kamine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregg A. Farley


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregg A. Farley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Morgan Chu


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Morgan Chu
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Grace M. Danziger


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grace M. Danziger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Merrick J. Bobb


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Merrick J. Bobb
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Ivan Price


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ivan Price
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura A. Seigle


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura A. Seigle
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William E. Thomson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William E. Thomson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jonathan L. Brophy


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jonathan L. Brophy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ryan S. LeVine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ryan S. LeVine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Courtney L. Stuart-Alban


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Courtney L. Stuart-Alban
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James D. Layden


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James D. Layden
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kathleen M.McDowell


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kathleen M.McDowell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jeffrey C. Freedman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeffrey C. Freedman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Christopher J. Heck


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Christopher J. Heck
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Georgia Franklin-Shutan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Georgia Franklin-Shutan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Sarretta C.McDonough


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sarretta C.McDonough
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Lawson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Lawson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael G. Soutar


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael G. Soutar
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Alan N. Halkett


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan N. Halkett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Kalia C. Petmecky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kalia C. Petmecky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Alice A. Salvo


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alice A. Salvo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly M. Talley


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly M. Talley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Randee Barak


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Randee Barak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Mark A. Kressel


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark A. Kressel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Tyrone R. Childress


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tyrone R. Childress
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael I. Blaylock


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael I. Blaylock
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane H. Barrett


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane H. Barrett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael K. Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael K. Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Gregory Evans


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory Evans
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John A. Girardi


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John A. Girardi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David C. Hunter


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David C. Hunter
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kerry Lyon-Grossman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kerry Lyon-Grossman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Frederick M. Nicholas


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Frederick M. Nicholas
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David K. Robinson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David K. Robinson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sheryl E. Stein


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheryl E. Stein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Caroline C. Vincent


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Caroline C. Vincent
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Alexander S. Gareeb


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alexander S. Gareeb
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Mhare O.Mouradian


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mhare O.Mouradian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lee R. Petillon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lee R. Petillon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Justice H.Walter Croskey


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice H.Walter Croskey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ivy Kagan Bierman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ivy Kagan Bierman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Paul S. Chan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul S. Chan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Eric R. McDonough


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eric R. McDonough
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Catherine K. La Tempa


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Catherine K. La Tempa
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc L. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc L. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Margaret P. Stevens


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Margaret P. Stevens
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Princeton H. Kim


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Princeton H. Kim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Allison N. Shue


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allison N. Shue
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Feris M. Greenberger


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Feris M. Greenberger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Stuart A. Forsyth


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stuart A. Forsyth
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Avisha A. Patel


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avisha A. Patel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Nicholas P. Saggese


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nicholas P. Saggese
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David W. Steuber


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Steuber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Karen B.Wong and Scott W. Lee


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen B.Wong and Scott W. Lee
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mark Kachner


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark Kachner
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Wesley T. Shih


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wesley T. Shih
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jason B. Komorsky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jason B. Komorsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Justice Nora M.Manella


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice Nora M.Manella
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jennifer A. Bensch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jennifer A. Bensch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John M. Byrne


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John M. Byrne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lawrence W. Crispo


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lawrence W. Crispo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Macklin Fleming


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Macklin Fleming
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jo-Ann W. Grace


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jo-Ann W. Grace
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Matthew P. Lewis


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew P. Lewis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Haley M. McIntosh


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Haley M. McIntosh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Phillip L. Bosl


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Phillip L. Bosl
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brett J. Cohen


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brett J. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Albert F. Davis


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Albert F. Davis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: James J. Gallagher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James J. Gallagher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian L. Holman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian L. Holman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly H. Clancy


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly H. Clancy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Seth D. Levy


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth D. Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David W. Swift


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Swift
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Eugene L. Trope


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eugene L. Trope
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Douglas C. Rawles


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Douglas C. Rawles
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc M. Seltzer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc M. Seltzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Alan K. Steinbrecher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan K. Steinbrecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Commr. Lori R. Behar


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Commr. Lori R. Behar
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: James W. Gilliam, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James W. Gilliam, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Andrea Schoor


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Schoor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Richard Walch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Walch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: W. Stuart Ogg


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  W. Stuart Ogg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Deborah J. Ruosch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah J. Ruosch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura V. Farber


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura V. Farber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Thomas M. Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas M. Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Maria Louise Cousineau


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Maria Louise Cousineau
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Rick C. Madden


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rick C. Madden
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard B. Goetz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard B. Goetz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Andres C. Hurwitz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andres C. Hurwitz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Paula Ambrosini


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paula Ambrosini
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Kappy K. Bristol


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kappy K. Bristol
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jordan S. Cohen


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jordan S. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jana I. Lubert


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jana I. Lubert
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles E.Michaels


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles E.Michaels
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Thomas V. Reichert


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas V. Reichert
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Shanks


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Shanks
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Bryant S. Delgadillo


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bryant S. Delgadillo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Seth M. Gerber


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth M. Gerber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Peter Hsiao


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Peter Hsiao
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: A. Patricia Ursea


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  A. Patricia Ursea
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Emma Luevano


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Emma Luevano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Rhonda R. Trotter


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rhonda R. Trotter
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Andrew D. Patterson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew D. Patterson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Kevin J. Kensik


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin J. Kensik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda L. Curtis


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda L. Curtis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Gina Browne


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gina Browne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Lacba Senior Lawyers Section


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lacba Senior Lawyers Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregory B. Wood


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory B. Wood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Scott Colebank


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scott Colebank
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald M. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald M. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Adriana Lara and Ivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Adriana Lara and Ivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Meryl K. Chae


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Meryl K. Chae
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda Auerbach


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ronnie C. Baker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronnie C. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Avril D. Love


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avril D. Love
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Kevin J. Kensik


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin J. Kensik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Scott Colebank


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scott Colebank
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura W. Brill


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura W. Brill
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Matthew T. Heartney


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew T. Heartney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Court, Van Nuys


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Court, Van Nuys
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: TSG Reporting, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TSG Reporting, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald M. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald M. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ronnie C. Baker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronnie C. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mike Switzer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mike Switzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Avril D. Love


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avril D. Love
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregory B. Wood


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory B. Wood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: TSG Reporting, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TSG Reporting, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc M. Seltzer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Other
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc M. Seltzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles A. Gessler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Gessler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Howard D. Pilch


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard D. Pilch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Meryl K. Chae


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Meryl K. Chae
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda D. Barker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda D. Barker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Cheryl R. Avirom


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cheryl R. Avirom
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kaye Scholer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kaye Scholer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Lacba Senior Lawyers Section


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lacba Senior Lawyers Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Deborah A. Ventura


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah A. Ventura
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mike Switzer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mike Switzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles A. Gessler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Gessler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Victor W. Santochi


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Victor W. Santochi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Howard D. Pilch


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard D. Pilch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda L. Curtis


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda L. Curtis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Sharon Cohn


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon Cohn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Charles A. Collier, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Collier, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Cheryl R. Avirom


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cheryl R. Avirom
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: James R. Robie, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Robie, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Andrew D. Patterson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew D. Patterson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura W. Brill


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura W. Brill
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda D. Barker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda D. Barker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robin C. Huggins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin C. Huggins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: James R. Birnberg


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Birnberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Gina Browne


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gina Browne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Sharon Cohn


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon Cohn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Victor W. Santochi


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Victor W. Santochi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robin C. Huggins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin C. Huggins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: James R. Birnberg


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Birnberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Deborah A. Ventura


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah A. Ventura
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Matthew T. Heartney


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew T. Heartney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kaye Scholer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kaye Scholer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregory B. Wood


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory B. Wood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Andrew D. Patterson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew D. Patterson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael Allderdice


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mike Switzer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mike Switzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Avril D. Love


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avril D. Love
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Matthew T. Heartney


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew T. Heartney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Deborah A. Ventura


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah A. Ventura
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kaye Scholer


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kaye Scholer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda D. Barker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda D. Barker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Cheryl R. Avirom


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cheryl R. Avirom
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Victor W. Santochi


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Victor W. Santochi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles A. Gessler


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Gessler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Kevin J. Kensik


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin J. Kensik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Scott Colebank


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scott Colebank
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Meryl K. Chae


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Meryl K. Chae
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Sharon Cohn


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon Cohn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Howard D. Pilch


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard D. Pilch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda L. Curtis


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda L. Curtis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Charles A. Collier, Jr.


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Collier, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ronnie C. Baker


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronnie C. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: TSG Reporting, Inc


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TSG Reporting, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald M. Sallus


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald M. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura W. Brill


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura W. Brill
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: James R. Birnberg


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Birnberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robin C. Huggins


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin C. Huggins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Gina Browne


                         LAST UPDATED: December 5, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gina Browne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Crime pays for Harry Bosch's creator

BYLINE: Sally Pryor; Cultural Institutions Reporter

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388  words


DARK HEART: US novelist Michael Connelly at the Hyatt Hotel in Canberra
yesterday. Photo: ANDREW SHEARGOLD Crime pays for Harry Bosch's creator By Sally
Pryor Cultural Institutions Reporter Even the smallest towns have a seamy
underbelly, if only you know where to look, says acclaimed American crime
fiction writer Michael Connelly.

The LA crime reporter-turned- novelist was in Canberra yesterday for the last
stop on his Australian tour to promote his latest book.

With his husky, US-cop-show voice, he was slightly out of place in the grand
foyer of the Hyatt Hotel, and admitted he felt a long way from the Los Angeles
setting of his 24 novels.

Speaking before his booked-out talk at the National Library, he said he was
constantly amazed by how many people in Australia connected with his favourite
protagonist, detective Harry Bosch.

"The truth is, most writers won't admit this, but you don't write for anyone
other than yourself. You're writing the story that you like, you love, and
that's where you find fulfilment," he said. "And so in some ways, it's a minor
miracle when you even get it published in your own country, and people connect
with Harry Bosch and [lawyer] Mickey Haller. To take another step and cross a
vast, vast ocean and have people [tell me] 'I love Harry Bosch', or ask will he
ever be happy ...

"It's the grand tradition of storytelling, and the empathic connection that
people get from reading books." He said while crime and drama were easy to come
by on the gritty LA streets, it was only through luck and circumstance that he
chose to base his novels there.

He worked as a crime reporter for the Los Angeles Times from the 1980s, which
eventually led to his first novel, The Black Echo, in 1992.

His stories and characters have remained in the same settings, and he had found
it "too interesting" to move away from.

"There's a lot of interesting social things about that city, but I think there's
very good writers writing about the smallest of places and finding drama,
finding the hidden corruptions and the dark hearts in any place," he said.
Although he had not yet had the chance to see much of Canberra, he said there
was no doubt that good crime fiction could always be lurking, even in a city of
just 350,000.

Michael Connelly's latest book, The Fifth Witness, is published by Allen and
Unwin.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Crime pays for Harry Bosch's creator

BYLINE: Sally Pryor; Cultural Institutions Reporter

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388  words


DARK HEART: US novelist Michael Connelly at the Hyatt Hotel in Canberra
yesterday. Photo: ANDREW SHEARGOLD Crime pays for Harry Bosch's creator By Sally
Pryor Cultural Institutions Reporter Even the smallest towns have a seamy
underbelly, if only you know where to look, says acclaimed American crime
fiction writer Michael Connelly.

The LA crime reporter-turned- novelist was in Canberra yesterday for the last
stop on his Australian tour to promote his latest book.

With his husky, US-cop-show voice, he was slightly out of place in the grand
foyer of the Hyatt Hotel, and admitted he felt a long way from the Los Angeles
setting of his 24 novels.

Speaking before his booked-out talk at the National Library, he said he was
constantly amazed by how many people in Australia connected with his favourite
protagonist, detective Harry Bosch.

"The truth is, most writers won't admit this, but you don't write for anyone
other than yourself. You're writing the story that you like, you love, and
that's where you find fulfilment," he said. "And so in some ways, it's a minor
miracle when you even get it published in your own country, and people connect
with Harry Bosch and [lawyer] Mickey Haller. To take another step and cross a
vast, vast ocean and have people [tell me] 'I love Harry Bosch', or ask will he
ever be happy ...

"It's the grand tradition of storytelling, and the empathic connection that
people get from reading books." He said while crime and drama were easy to come
by on the gritty LA streets, it was only through luck and circumstance that he
chose to base his novels there.

He worked as a crime reporter for the Los Angeles Times from the 1980s, which
eventually led to his first novel, The Black Echo, in 1992.

His stories and characters have remained in the same settings, and he had found
it "too interesting" to move away from.

"There's a lot of interesting social things about that city, but I think there's
very good writers writing about the smallest of places and finding drama,
finding the hidden corruptions and the dark hearts in any place," he said.
Although he had not yet had the chance to see much of Canberra, he said there
was no doubt that good crime fiction could always be lurking, even in a city of
just 350,000.

Michael Connelly's latest book, The Fifth Witness, is published by Allen and
Unwin.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Crime pays for Harry Bosch's creator

BYLINE: Sally Pryor; Cultural Institutions Reporter

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388  words


DARK HEART: US novelist Michael Connelly at the Hyatt Hotel in Canberra
yesterday. Photo: ANDREW SHEARGOLD Crime pays for Harry Bosch's creator By Sally
Pryor Cultural Institutions Reporter Even the smallest towns have a seamy
underbelly, if only you know where to look, says acclaimed American crime
fiction writer Michael Connelly.

The LA crime reporter-turned- novelist was in Canberra yesterday for the last
stop on his Australian tour to promote his latest book.

With his husky, US-cop-show voice, he was slightly out of place in the grand
foyer of the Hyatt Hotel, and admitted he felt a long way from the Los Angeles
setting of his 24 novels.

Speaking before his booked-out talk at the National Library, he said he was
constantly amazed by how many people in Australia connected with his favourite
protagonist, detective Harry Bosch.

"The truth is, most writers won't admit this, but you don't write for anyone
other than yourself. You're writing the story that you like, you love, and
that's where you find fulfilment," he said. "And so in some ways, it's a minor
miracle when you even get it published in your own country, and people connect
with Harry Bosch and [lawyer] Mickey Haller. To take another step and cross a
vast, vast ocean and have people [tell me] 'I love Harry Bosch', or ask will he
ever be happy ...

"It's the grand tradition of storytelling, and the empathic connection that
people get from reading books." He said while crime and drama were easy to come
by on the gritty LA streets, it was only through luck and circumstance that he
chose to base his novels there.

He worked as a crime reporter for the Los Angeles Times from the 1980s, which
eventually led to his first novel, The Black Echo, in 1992.

His stories and characters have remained in the same settings, and he had found
it "too interesting" to move away from.

"There's a lot of interesting social things about that city, but I think there's
very good writers writing about the smallest of places and finding drama,
finding the hidden corruptions and the dark hearts in any place," he said.
Although he had not yet had the chance to see much of Canberra, he said there
was no doubt that good crime fiction could always be lurking, even in a city of
just 350,000.

Michael Connelly's latest book, The Fifth Witness, is published by Allen and
Unwin.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lohan enters plea in theft of necklace

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 232  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Actress Lindsay Lohan pleaded not guilty Wednesday to stealing a $2,500 necklace
from a Los Angeles jewelry store.

Dressed all in white for a brief court appearance, Lohan, 24, was charged with a
single count of felony grand theft. If convicted, the Mean Girls star could be
sent to prison for up to three years, prosecutors say.

Lohan is accused of walking out of a Los Angeles jewelry store without paying
for a gold designer necklace in January -- just three weeks after ending her
fifth stint in drug and alcohol rehab in three years.

Lohan's lawyer entered the not guilty plea for the actress in front of a packed
courtroom and cameras televising the hearing.

Friends have said Lohan believed the necklace, which has been returned to
police, was on loan. She was expected to be released on bail, set at $20,000,
later Wednesday after being booked and photographed by court officials.

"You are no different than anyone else, so please don't push your luck," judge
Keith Schwartz told Lohan, saying the felony charge was different from previous
charges against her because it is considered a more serious crime with greater
punishment.

Lohan is still on probation for a 2007 drunk driving and cocaine possession
offence that has halted her once promising Hollywood movie career. If convicted
of the theft charge, she would also be in violation of probation, which would
mean even more jail time.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

BRIEF: Super Bowl Ring Returned to NFL Legend

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


Dec. 16--LOS ANGELES -- A Super Bowl ring stolen during a home burglary has been
returned to its rightful owner.

Los Angeles Raider, Willie Gault, who played on the 1985 Super Bowl winning
team, had his ring stolen during a burglary at his home on Nov. 8.

According to a press release from the Los Angeles Police Department, the ring
was found at a jewelry store in the 700 block of S. Broadway on Thursday.

They also recovered 5 stolen watches and a wedding ring, as well as another 1983
Super Bowl ring, whose owner is unknown.

Detectives thank a source that deals in sports memorabilia for tipping police to
the rings.

The store owner, Ramin Cohan of Beverly Hills, was arrested and booked for
receiving stolen property. His bail is set at $20,000.

Anyone with information is asked to call LAPD detectives at (818) 374-7730.
Tipsters wishing to remain anonymous can contact Crime Stoppers at
1-800-222-TIPS (1-800-222-8477).

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111216-5LA-BRF-Super-Bowl-Ring-Returned-to-NFL-Legend-1216-20111216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

BRIEF: Coroner ID's Woman Found Shot to Death in El Monte Wash

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


Nov. 28--EL MONTE -- Coroner's officials have identified a woman whose body was
found in a wash in El Monte.

31-year-old Marlene Estrada's body was discovered shortly after 9 a.m. Sunday in
the Rio Hondo Wash near Santa Anita Avenue and Lower Azusa Road. S

A passerby walking along the wash spotted the body and called 911.

Los Angeles County Sheriff's homicide detectives say Estrada had multiple
gunshot wounds to her upper torso.

Several cartridge casings were found nearby.

According to Lt. Holly Francisco, investigators are unsure how long the body had
been in the water before it was discovered.

Detectives do not have any leads on suspects at this time.

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact detectives at (323) 890-5500.

Anonymous tips can be made through "Crime Stoppers" by dialing (800) 222-TIPS
(8477), or texting 'TIPLA' plus your tip to CRIMES (274637), or by using the
website http://lacrimestoppers.org.

___ (c)2011 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20111128-5LA-BRF-Coroner-ID-s-Woman-Found-Shot-to-Death-in-El-Monte-Wash-1128-20
111128

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              May 16, 2011 Monday

Suspect involved in Glendora grocery shootout remains hospitalized; no arrests
made

BYLINE: Staff Reports

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


GLENDORA - Police have yet to make an arrest in the case of a shootout that
happened in a crowded grocery store Saturday night.

The man, who opened fire in the Ralph's supermarket then was shot by police, has
not been arrested or charged with a crime, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy
Lillian Peck said Monday.

He remains in the hospital, Peck said.

The incident occurred at about 10 p.m., when the Ralph's at 655 S. Grand Ave.
was full of people.

It started when an officer spotted a man suspected of robbing a Kohl's
department store earlier in the day. The suspect pulled out a handgun and ran
into the grocery store.

The officer pursued, and the suspect opened fire. The officer shot back to
defend himself, according to Los Angeles County sheriff's Sgt. Harry Drucker.

The suspect was struck in the upper body and hospitalized in critical condition.

No officers or bystanders were wounded.

Sheriff's officials refused to release the suspect's name, citing patient
confidentiality.

Los Angeles County Sheriff's homicide investigators are heading up the
investigation of the shootout, sheriff's officials said.

Homicide investigators are frequently assigned to investigate officer involved
shootings in Los Angeles County.

Sheriff's Lt. John Corina, who is overseeing the investigation, did not return
calls for comment. It remains unknown why deputies have neither arrested nor
charged the suspect with a crime.

The shootout came on the heels of an unrelated attack Thursday night in Glendora
that sent a man to the hospital with a stab wound.

While it's rare that two violent incidents occurred in such a rapid succession,
police say, it does happen from time to time, even in communities that have
relatively few instances of violent crime.

"These things happen," Glendora Police Lt. Brian Summers said. "I don't think
you can say there's any type of up tick in any kind of violence."

"It just goes to show you that it can happen in any community anywhere," Summers
said.

In the unrelated case, Glendora police are investigating the stabbing of a
40-year-old man, Summers said.

The man was taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries, police
said.

The 40-year-old man knew his attacker, police said.

The detective investigating the stabbing was not immediately available for
comment Monday.

- From Staff Reports

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday

Police: Parolee Admits to Anti-Gay Hate Crime

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 262 words


June 18--SANTA ANA -- A parolee is under arrest after allegedly admitting to
hanging a noose at a local gay rights organization last October.

Marten Joseph Brandel, 45, was arrested on suspicion of committing a hate crime
and hanging a noose on private property when he showed up for a meeting with his
parole officer in Irvine Friday, according to Sgt. Anthony Bertagna of Santa Ana
PD.

A noose was found hanging on the front door of Equality California's Santa Ana
headquarters on October 29, 2010.

Bertagna said DNA on the noose matched samples already in the state system from
Brandel, a transient with previous arrests ranging from drug possession to
assaulting an officer as well as other property crimes.

Gay rights activists said the arrest sends a "powerful message" against bigotry
in the LGBT community.

"We thank the Santa Ana Police Department for making an arrest in this case,"
EQCA representative Vaishalee Raja said in a statement Saturday.

"Equality California will continue its work to open hearts and minds so that
LGBT Californians one day enjoy freedom from the prejudice and hatred that can
lead to violence."

Brandel allegedly admitted to the crime during questioning and is currently
being held without bail.

Charges will be filed against Brandel on Monday, Bertagna said.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110618-5LA-Police-Parolee-Admits-to-Anti-Gay-Hate-Crime-0618-20110618

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2011


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hyman J. Bradofsky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hyman J. Bradofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon.Margaret M.Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon.Margaret M.Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Sarah Heck Griffin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sarah Heck Griffin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea Sheridan Ordin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Sheridan Ordin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Martin H.Webster


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martin H.Webster
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Scherzer International


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scherzer International
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Knox M. Cologne III


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Knox M. Cologne III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Danette E.Meyers


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Danette E.Meyers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Sheldon H. Sloan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheldon H. Sloan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert E. Carlson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert E. Carlson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donna J. Zenor


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donna J. Zenor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                 DONOR: Rusnak


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rusnak
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Daniel J.Woods


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Daniel J.Woods
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Scherzer International


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scherzer International
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ralph J. Shapiro


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph J. Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                   DONOR: TPC


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TPC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donald P. Baker


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Robin Meadow


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin Meadow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Katessa Charles Davis


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Katessa Charles Davis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John J. Quinn


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Quinn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Hussey


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Hussey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas V. Girardi


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas V. Girardi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David E. Gordon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David E. Gordon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 9,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Gretchen M. Nelson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gretchen M. Nelson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Charles S. Vogel


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Charles S. Vogel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Joseph R. Austin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph R. Austin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Donald A. Daucher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald A. Daucher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Donald C.Mitchell


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C.Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Greiner Consulting


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Greiner Consulting
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Francis M.Wheat


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Francis M.Wheat
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patricia Phillips


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Phillips
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edith R. Matthai


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edith R. Matthai
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Hon. Richard A. and Ruth J. Lavine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Richard A. and Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Harry L. Hathaway


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harry L. Hathaway
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James C. Martin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James C. Martin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: David J. Pasternak


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David J. Pasternak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John S.Welch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John S.Welch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Holland and Knight


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Holland and Knight
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian K. Condon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian K. Condon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: John Carson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John Carson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles R. English


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles R. English
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Leonard S. Janofsky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Leonard S. Janofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Neal S.Millard


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Neal S.Millard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Alan K. Steinbrecher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan K. Steinbrecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                DONOR: Valencia


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Valencia
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura V. Farber


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura V. Farber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard B. Goetz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard B. Goetz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ralph J. Shapiro


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph J. Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly H. Clancy


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly H. Clancy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Elizabeth M. Calciano


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elizabeth M. Calciano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Robert S. Gerstein


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert S. Gerstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hon. Robert N. Kwan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Robert N. Kwan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Arthur D. Silbergeld


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arthur D. Silbergeld
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             480 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald C. Mitchell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C. Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jason B. Komorsky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jason B. Komorsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Kathleen M. McDowell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kathleen M. McDowell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Dennis D. Resh


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dennis D. Resh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David R. Stepp


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David R. Stepp
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura V. Farber


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura V. Farber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard B. Goetz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard B. Goetz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jason B. Komorsky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jason B. Komorsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Kathleen M. McDowell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kathleen M. McDowell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Dennis D. Resh


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dennis D. Resh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sheryl E. Stein


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheryl E. Stein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Michael J. Wise


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael J. Wise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Eric C. Ho


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eric C. Ho
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jonathan L. Brophy


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jonathan L. Brophy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David W. Swift


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Swift
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ryan S. LeVine


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ryan S. LeVine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             501 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Courtney L. Stuart-Alban


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Courtney L. Stuart-Alban
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             502 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William Clark Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William Clark Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             503 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             504 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Michael and Lara Schwartz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael and Lara Schwartz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             505 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Seth D. Levy


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth D. Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Miriam A. Krinsky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Miriam A. Krinsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             507 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             508 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea Sheridan Ordin


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Sheridan Ordin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015
