
                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 31, 2010 Friday

BRIEF: Sheriffs Research Shows LA Crime Drop

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 142 words


Dec. 31--LOS ANGELES -- The Los Angeles Sheriffs Department has released its
latest research showing the pattern of crime in Los Angeles County over the past
49 years.

Graphic depictions built by LASD researchers demonstrate the downward trend in
crime in recent years.

Crime in the area has decreased from its highest levels of almost 700 crimes per
10,000 population in 1980-1981, down to under 300 crimes per 10,000 in 2009.

Reported crimes in the research include homicide, forcible rape, robbery,
aggravated assault, burglary, larceny theft, grand theft auto, and arson.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101231-5LA-BRF-Sheriffs-Research-Shows-LA-Crime-Drop-1231-20101231

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday

Vigil today to remember victims of violent crimes

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 200 words


Victims of violent crimes will be remembered during a candlelight vigil tonight.

The "Crime Victims' Rights: Fairness, Dignity and Respect," vigil will start at
7 p.m. in front of the West Covina Courthouse, 1427 West Covina Parkway.

The event is part of National Crime Victims' Rights Week, which runs until
Saturday.

Los Angeles County sheriff's Deputy Sonny Saavedra, will be the keynote speaker.

LOS ANGELES

B.P. printer's preliminary hearing postponed

A preliminary hearing for a Baldwin Park print shop owner and political
consultant accused of trying to bribe two Irwindale council members was
postponed Monday.

Rolando Valera, 44, is accused of offering a cash bribe to Councilmen Manuel
Ortiz and Larry Burrola, according to prosecutors and a complaint filed last
month in Los Angeles Superior Court.

Valera pleaded not guilty to two counts of attempted bribery on April 7.

Valera was attempting to get the councilmen to vote for a conditional-use permit
to sell hard liquor at Mariscos Uruapan restaurant in Irwindale, prosecutors
said. The bribes were not accepted, prosecutors said.

Judge James Bianco scheduled a May 3 preliminary hearing.

To submit information for briefs,

e-mail news.tribune@sgvn.com

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              3 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             August 23, 2010 Monday

Seminar will discuss 17 rights of crime victims

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 121 words


Justice for Homicide Victims/Justice For Murdered Children presents a clinic for
crime victims, featuring presentations by the county District Attorney's Office,
Sheriff's Department and the Superior Court system, will be held from 8 a.m. to
noon Sept. 18 at the Sheriff's Department's headquarters, 4700 Ramona Blvd.

The Crime Victims Bill of Rights Act became California law in 2008. The
presentation will focus on and explain crime victims' 17 new constitutional
rights.

Representatives from the DA's Victim-Witness Protection Program; the sheriff's
court services division; Los Angeles Superior Court; and the city of Los
Angeles' Victim Assistance Program, among others.

To reserve seating, e-mail jhvinfo@gmail.com by Sept.5.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday

Monterey Park seminar will discuss rights of crime victims

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 130 words


Justice for Homicide Victims/Justice For Murdered Children presents a clinic for
crime victims, featuring presentations by the county District Attorney's Office,
Sheriff's Department and the Superior Court system, will be held from 8 a.m. to
noon Sept. 18 at the Sheriff's Department's headquarters, 4700 Ramona Blvd.

The Crime Victims Bill of Rights Act became California law in 2008. The
presentation will focus on and explain crime victims' 17 new constitutional
rights.

Representatives from the DA's Victim-Witness Protection Program; the sheriff's
court services division; Los Angeles Superior Court; and the city of Los
Angeles' Victim Assistance Program, among others.

To reserve seating, e-mail jhvinfo@gmail.com .

E-mail community news and events to hector.gonzalez@sgvn.com .

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

Honeymoon killer charged, locked up in US

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 193  words


LOS ANGELES (AAP): Alabama prosecutors will allege Gabe Watson murdered his wife
on their Queensland honeymoon to pocket $US200,000 in insurance payouts.

The theory was revealed on Thursday just minutes after Watson walked off a
Qantas flight from Melbourne and into the waiting handcuffs of US authorities at
Los Angeles international airport.

"Gabe Watson has been served a warrant in Los Angeles," Don Valeska, head of
Alabama's Attorney-General's violent crime division, told AAP.

"He is in custody."

Watson is locked up in a cell at the Los Angeles Police Department's 77th Street
complex in south central Los Angeles, an area known for murders by violent
gangs, including the Bloods, Crips and Mexican Mafia.

The 33-year-old is likely to spend four to seven days in the lockup before a Los
Angeles judge decides whether he will be extradited from California to Alabama.

Shortly after Watson's arrest at the airport, Alabama Attorney-General Troy King
announced a grand jury in Birmingham, Alabama, last month charged Watson with
two murder counts: capital murder in the course of kidnapping; and capital
murder for pecuniary gain.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 13, 2010 Saturday

Sheriff's Department reports fewer murders

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


LOS ANGELES - The murder rate in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department has decreased 15.5 percent over the last year, and is at
the lowest level since 1975, according to data released Saturday by the
Sheriff's Department.

And in some places, the number of murders has plummeted, such as the 41 percent
decrease noted in Compton.

In the 12 months ending Oct. 31, 22 murders occurred, compared to 37 homicides
the year before.

And in the Century station's area, which includes Lynwood and the county area
near Watts, there was a 23 percent murder reduction - from 30 to 23 killings.

Countywide, there were 148 homicides in LASO jurisdiction territory in the year
ending at Halloween, compared to 175 the year before.

The crime rates were crunched by the Sheriff's Department as it compiled its
annual Part I Crime Summary, a 119-page document that shows reported crime
statistics for the unincorporated communities of Los Angeles County policed by
the department.

The report also analyzes crime data in the 42 cities in the county that hire the
department to act as local police.

The department said the dropping number of murders reflects a five-year
continuous decrease, resulting in a 52 percent decrease in the number of
homicides compared to five years ago, and the lowest homicide rate since 1975.

Reported incidents of violent crimes have declined 1.7 percent, and serious
property crimes have declined by 3 percent in the sheriff's patrol areas
countywide, compared to last year at this time.

Sheriff's stations experiencing the most significant decreases in overall
violent crime over the same period last year included the Marina Del Rey station
at 25.5 percent, the Walnut station at 25.1 percent, the Industry Station at
24.2 percent and the Altadena Station at 22.5 percent.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Police, Valley communities come together for National Night Out;
SAFETY: Event helps promote participation in local anti-crime programs.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 443 words


San Fernando Valley residents will get a chance to meet police officers from
their local stations tonight as part of the 27th annual National Night Out.

Free food and entertainment will be available at the event, which aims to spur
participation in local anti-crime programs and strengthen neighborhood morale
and police-community partnerships

Focusing on crime and drug prevention, National Night Out is sponsored by the
National Association of Town Watch.

"The issue of community policing for the community and police and all the
stakeholders is something we should be addressing every day," said Deputy Chief
Kirk Albanese, head of the Los Angeles Police Department's Valley Bureau. "But
this brings an exclamation mark to what we do every day."

Getting neighbors to be alert to crime and phone in incidents to police has
helped reduce nonviolent crime cases in Los Angeles from 188,000 in 2001 to
116,000 in 2009, Albanese said.

"That doesn't happen by accident," he said. "We're on pace now to lower that
even more for 2010. That happens because police, community and the city
government - everybody - kind of working together does the kind of things we
need to do to keep it down."

In Glendale, National Night Out events "grew immensely" this year, said Sgt. Tom
Lorenz of the Glendale Police Department. At least 25 are scheduled throughout
the city, ranging from neighborhood get-togethers to marches ending in a jazz
festival.

One gathering at Pacific Park is expected to draw at least 300 people, Lorenz
said.

"People realized that if they want to protect their neighborhoods ... that as
long as they stuck together and reported suspicious activities, that we were
able to catch a lot of thieves this year," Lorenz said.

"It's all about working together," Lorenz said. "We can't do this alone. There's
no way in a city of this size with budget constraints that we're going to be
able to continue to provide a lot of services that we've once come to expect."

Here's a list of events planned by local police stations:

Warner Ranch Park, 5800 Topanga Canyon Blvd., Woodland Hills, 5-8 p.m.

Birmingham High School, Victory Boulevard and Balboa Boulevard, Lake Balboa, 5-9
p.m.

Burbank Bike Way, Chandler Blvd at Keystone, 5:30-8 p.m.

Sylmar Park, 13109 Borden Ave., 6-8 p.m.

Northridge Park, 18300 Lemarsh St., Northridge, 6-10 p.m.

Pacific Park, South Kenilworth Avenue and Riverdale Drive, Glendale. There will
be at least 25 events in the Glendale area and most are between 6-7 p.m. For a
full listing, visit www.glendalenno.com or call 818-548-4015.

For more information about National Night Out, visit www.nno.org or call
800-NITE-OUT.

cj.lin@dailynews.com

818-713-3738

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                             August 23, 2010 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

LAX security concerns raised by police group

BYLINE: Roger Yu

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 693 words


Local lawmakers in Los Angeles want to review security policies at Los Angeles
International Airport after a police group said the airport is vulnerable to
terrorist attacks and other crimes.

In June, the Los Angeles Airport Peace Officers Association sent a letter to
Airport Police Chief George Centeno, expressing concern that cuts in the
airport's police personnel, training and equipment budget were compromising its
security. The letter was leaked to the local press.

Earlier this month, L.A. City Councilwoman Janice Hahn, who chairs a committee
that's looking into the claims, said she wanted a security audit of the airport.
Other state and local lawmakers have also called for an investigation.

LAX defended its security record, releasing a statement last week that showed
the number of crimes at the airport fell 6% to 1,146 cases in the first six
months of the year.

"LAX continues to be one of the safest airports in the world and one of the
safest areas in all of Southern California," Centeno said in a statement. "The
total number of major crimes against persons is remarkably low, given over 28.7
million travelers used LAX the first half of this year."

The airport has said its budget has tripled in recent years to about $100
million annually, while the number of officers has grown to 447 from 263 in
2002.

Marshall McClain, president of the Los Angeles Airport Peace Officers
Association, says he wrote the letter to urge the airport police to beef up
staffing and budget given LAX's size and growth ambition. "It's a difference of
opinion on the numbers," he says, adding that officers total 423. "We have grown
in size. That's never been an issue. The issue is we want to do more with more.
We want to ensure that as the airport grows, the (number of) officers grows as
well."

Downtown-to-O'Hare rail?

Chicago Mayor Richard Daley relaunched a proposal last week to build non-stop
rail service between downtown and Chicago O'Hare.

It would not replace the Chicago Transit Authority's Blue Line service. Travel
time from downtown to O'Hare on the Blue Line is about 45 minutes and costs
about $2. The new service would be faster but also cost more.

In a statement, Daley said the project would also "expand economic opportunity
and create jobs." He has created a committee of 17 experts that will review the
project's financing, routes, implementation schedules and operation. No city
dollars would be used, and foreign investors are already interested in the
project, Daley said last week.

In 2006, the CTA had proposed a similar project, betting that travelers would
pay extra to avoid jockeying with commuters  for seats. But the $280 million
plan was scrapped after the cost exceeded the budget and the city couldn't come
up with enough money to finish it.

The initial plan called for a new station in the heart of the downtown Loop that
would serve direct trains to O'Hare and Midway airports. The station was to be
built below Block 37, a mixed-use retail development. The city and the CTA have
already sunk more than $250 million for the initial phase of the station,
including drilling a large hole on Block 37, according to the Chicago Tribune.

Many cities abroad, such as London, Shanghai and Hong Kong, have direct rail
service from airports to city centers.

Delta expands service in D.C.

Beginning Oct. 31, Delta Air Lines will boost service at Washington Reagan
National, with new or increased flights between nine cities.

It will launch  non-stop Delta or Delta Connection service to Hartford, Conn.
(three daily round-trip flights); Columbus, Ohio (three); Jacksonville (three);
Miami (two); Orlando (four); Tampa (two); and St. Louis (four). That's 21 new
daily non-stop flights to Washington.

Delta will add five flights on its existing route from Washington National to
Boston, giving it a total of 12 daily round-trip flights between those airports.
Its service to Indianapolis also will be expanded from two to three daily
flights. The airline will discontinue its service to Huntsville, Ala.

When the schedule upgrades are complete, Delta will fly to 22 cities non-stop
from Washington National, compared with 16 in the fall of 2009.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Damian Dovarganes, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Hogan still called Australia, and US, home;
TAX CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: Deborah Snow and Dylan Welch

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 967 words


Letters that shed light on the actor's residency have been released, write
Deborah Snow and Dylan Welch. It seemed an innocuous enough letter, striking a
jaunty note amid the dry accounting and legal talk. It is to Paul Hogan from his
American manager, Douglas Urbanski, in Los Angeles, and it stands out from the
reams of technical detail on the file like a brightly coloured toucan amid a
flock of dun-coloured hens. "Dear Paul", Urbanksi writes on May 3, 2005.
"Further to our conversation last night, I want to reiterate in writing how
important this matter is ..." "The simple fact is that while the world
consolidates in many ways, I can not stress strongly enough the need for the
physical presence of celebrities to be available where the heart of their
business is taking place.

The importance of having yourself, as well as our other internationally known
celebrity clients, present and available in Los Angeles is more important than
ever." Hogan's return to Los Angeles is "an essential tool toward our pursuit of
all of the Paul Hogan endeavours worldwide", Urbanksi adds with a flourish. Just
why this letter, revealed for the first time this week, ended up in a file
painstakingly assembled by the Australian Crime Commission as part of its
Wickenby investigation into suspected tax fraud is a long story. But the short
answer lies in a note composed days earlier by the Ernst and Young tax adviser
Marcus Davis. Headed "Paul Hogan Tax Residency" and dated April 19, 2005, it
outlines Hogan's plans to take himself, his wife, Linda Kozlowski, and son,
Chance, back to the US to live after three years spent in Australia between July
2002 and June 2005. Davis finds it pertinent to observe that "Paul has been
advised by his manager and other professional advisers that if he wishes to
continue his career, he will need to relocate to the US". Handwritten next to
this someone has noted " letter to come". Sure enough, Urbanski's letter
arrives, two weeks later. Urbanski flatly denied the letter was solicited by
Hogan's Australian accountant, Tony Stewart, to whom it was copied by fax or
email. "I don't take instructions from Tony Stewart and I don't listen to or
follow instructions from accountants," he snapped. But whoever assembled the ACC
file must have thought the letter had some place in the mosaic of events
affecting Hogan's shifting tax residency status. With Hogan and his family
crossing the Pacific first in one direction, then another between 2002 and 2005,
the ACC investigators suspected Stewart of constructing a series of "false
residency windows" - periods in which Hogan was paying tax in neither country.
And they suspected the strategy involved retrospectively re-casting Hogan's move
from the US to Australia in July 2002 as only temporary. Thus the ACC schedule
of inferences, seen by the media for the first time in court documents released
this week, states: "In 2002-03 the tax advantage lay in telling the US
authorities he was coming to Australia permanently; but in 2005 the tax
advantage lay in telling the Australian authorities that he came here only
temporarily in 2002. Both cannot, however, be the case." The brief further
claims that Stewart (codenamed A3 in ACC documents) "ultimately intended to
facilitate an assertion to Australian taxation authorities that P [the codename
for Hogan] was not domiciled in Australia between 2002 and 2005". Much then
turned on what was in Hogan's mind when he came back to Australia in mid-2002
and whether he genuinely thought he was returning for good. In this respect, the
ACC also notes that Hogan and Kozlowski bought a waterfront pile in Vaucluse in
July 2002, shortly after their return from the US , where they had been living
for some years. Meanwhile, millions of dollars were swirling through a
merry-go-round allegedly devised by Hogan's tax advisers. In one instance, the
ACC alleges, an offshore entity called Quatre Saison Trust transferred funds to
another Virgin Islands entity called Trelene, which then paid $US5 million to a
company called Silverstream Nominees for Hogan's benefit. The money was
allegedly transferred while Hogan was in transit between the US and Australia
and was ostensibly for rights to a film never made, Crocodile Dundee IV. But
Hogan has reportedly denied receiving the payment. Both Quatre Saison and
Trelene were beneficially owned or part-owned by Hogan and were run by the
offshore financial advisory outfit Strachans, operated by Philip Egglishaw, a
prime target of Operation Wickenby. The ACC alleges that "A3 [Stewart] and
Strachans and Egglishaw through A3 provided financial and taxation advice to P
... to evade P's taxation obligations through tax evasion schemes promoted and
facilitated by Strachans". Other matters attracting the ACC's interest relate to
the tax treatment of a loan from one Hogan company to another. Hogan, his
Crocodile Dundee partner John Cornell, and Stewart have denied wrongdoing and
have not been charged with any tax offences, despite the length of the
investigation. In 2008 Hogan said defiantly from the US: "Come and get me, you
miserable bastards!" Moreover, while the ACC still has Hogan in its sights on
other grounds, with more to surface in the courts in August, the ACC has not
pursued its claims against him based on the residency dispute. It is understood
it notified the Federal Court in mid-2008 that it had dropped that part of its
investigation. Nevertheless Hogan maintained furious attempts to keep the
documents out of the media. That battle, taken up by Fairfax, the publisher of
the Herald, Media, and Nationwide News, went all the way to the High Court but
ended in defeat for Hogan this week. The court said embarrassment was not
sufficient reason to suppress documents that had been admitted into evidence.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Called to Los Angeles ... Paul Hogan as Crocodile Dundee in
2001; (below) tearout of letter from Douglas Urbanski to Hogan. Photos: Reuters
Star power ... Hogan and his wife, Linda Kozlowski, in 2001.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             June 20, 2010, Sunday

TODAY'S News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 360 words


Celebrating an icon of protest

YANGON, Myanmar - A member of the detained pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu
Kyi's National League for Democracy Party lights candles in front of her
portrait as they celebrate Suu Kyi's 65th birthday at the home of a member of
the party on Saturday in Yangon, Myanmar. The Myanmar democracy icon marked the
day locked in her dilapidated lakeside compound as calls for her freedom erupted
around the world.

High-tech crime fighting

EAST ORANGE, N.J. - This city of 65,000 has fought one of the nation's highest
crime rates in recent years with an arsenal of high-tech gadgets, from gunshot
detection systems to software that can sift and analyze crime data almost
instantaneously. The results have been startling: Violent crime in East Orange
has fallen by more than two-thirds since 2003, according to state police
statistics. STORY, 5A

It's the write way to live

LOS ANGELES - Penmanship may be a dying art in most school systems, but some
instructors are keeping the ink flowing in a paperless age. STORY, 7A

An injury, then an odyssey

LOS ANGELES - He can't remember which came first: the roar, loud as a jet
engine's, or the sensation of thousands of pounds of pressure crushing his
bones. An 18-wheeler carrying a forklift in its trailer had turned into the
alley and rolled over his legs. Two years later, he finally achieved justice.
STORY, 14A

A change of heart for R.I. schools

COVENTRY, R.I. - The superintendent of a Rhode Island school district that
banned a second-grader's homemade hat because it displayed toy soldiers with
tiny guns said Saturday he will work to change the policy to allow such apparel.
Ken Di Pietro said in an e-mail to The Associated Press that the no-weapons
policy shouldn't limit student expression, especially when students are
depicting "tools of a profession or service," such as the military or police.
STORY, 5C

New tool takes new look at ailing marine life

WALNUT CREEK, Calif. - A tool developed by scientists to protect citizens from
bioterrorism attacks and outbreaks of novel diseases may aid marine biologists
in discovering what's ailing marine mammals. STORY, 7E

- COMPILED FROM WIRE REPORTS

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Charleston Newspapers


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            November 8, 2010 Monday
                          2 - All-round First Edition

GLOBAL EDITORIALS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 474  words


THE TIMES OF INDIA

New World moves east

THE future lay ``here in India'', said the daily as the nation welcomed US
President Barack Obama. And India's New World was replacing the former New
World, namely, the US. Like America once was, India is now ``young, enterprising
and hopeful. Back in the 19th century, French aristocrat Alexis de Tocqueville
noted America's signature characteristics. Five of these might be an accurate
description of India 2010.'' India shared America's notions of ``faith and
liberty'' but should avoid the US's political evangelism; it has taken the
Tocquevillean notion of ``how much money will it bring in?'' perhaps too close
to its allegedly spiritual bosom; democracy in both places in both ages suffered
from a ``president's personal interests''. De Tocqueville ``found the US House
of Representatives, much like today's Lok Sabha, to be remarkable for its vulgar
demeanour and its poverty of talent''; freedom of opinion was a commonality,
also up to a point; and early US statesmen, 50 years after independence, were
``vastly inferior'' to their predecessors, as were, the daily said, today's
Indian leaders not a patch on the likes of Patel and Nehru.

LOS ANGELES TIMES

Street life can beat gangs

THE cold-blooded murder of a five-year-old boy in his Los Angeles backyard in
what appeared to be a gangland-related crime of mistaken identity showed the
city had much work to do to stop turf wars, the daily said. ``Until this
homicide, recent news about gang violence in Los Angeles had been positive.
Citywide, gang-related crime has been falling, and where the Summer Night Lights
program was active, the reductions were particularly dramatic, with a 57 per
cent decrease in homicides. One crucial component to combating gangs is changing
the culture in the neighbourhoods where they operate. That includes building a
trusting relationship between residents and the police. The best programs cannot
stop every random act of viciousness, and public safety is not only about
catching criminals -- it is about stitching together neighbourhoods that will
not tolerate gang warfare . . . (that work) continues.''

THE IRISH TIMES

Look on the bright side

NOT mincing words, the Irish daily asks: ``Is Ireland the worst country in the
world?'' Sure, things had gone steeply downhill since the Celtic Tiger years,
but ``a little perspective could be useful''.

``The UN Human Development Report this week ranked Ireland fifth in the world in
terms of quality of life''; while continental nations were tearing themselves
apart over immigration, in Ireland, ``despite levels of immigration . . . over
the past 15 years unparalleled in recent European history, no xenophobic party
has yet emerged''; Ireland's ``uniquely dysfunctional political system'' was not
so bad, comparatively . . . ``Italy is governed by Silvio Berlusconi''.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                               1 - State Edition

US police arrest wife killer at airport

BYLINE: PETER MITCHELL, LOS ANGELES

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 300  words


ALABAMA prosecutors will allege Gabe Watson murdered his wife on their
Queensland honeymoon to pocket $200,000 in insurance payouts.

The allegation was revealed yesterday just minutes after Watson walked off a
Qantas flight from Melbourne and into the waiting handcuffs of US authorities at
Los Angeles international airport.

``Gabe Watson has been served a warrant in Los Angeles,'' Don Valeska, head of
Alabama's Attorney-General's violent crime division, said.

``He is in custody.''

Watson, 33, is locked in a cell at the Los Angeles Police Department's 77th St
complex in south central Los Angeles.

He is likely to spend four to seven days in the lockup before a Los Angeles
judge decides whether he will be extradited from California to Alabama.

Shortly after Watson's arrest at the airport, Alabama Attorney-General Troy King
announced a grand jury in Birmingham, Alabama, last month charged Watson with
two murder counts: capital murder in the course of kidnapping; and capital
murder for pecuniary gain. The grand jury's decision had to be kept secret until
Watson's arrest.

The indictment states Alabama will not seek the death penalty against Watson.

Mr Valeska said Watson was motivated to kill his wife of 11 days, Tina, for the
financial windfall insurance policies would bring him.

``The total would have been about $200,000,'' he said.

Alabama authorities believe Watson hatched a plan to kill 26-year-old Tina
before they departed Alabama for their 2003 honeymoon in Australia, which
included a seven-day scuba dive trip off the coast of Queensland.

Tina drowned on the first day of the expedition.

Watson's Alabama lawyer Brett Bloomston has vowed to clear Watson's name.

Watson completed an 18-month jail sentence in Queensland earlier this month
after pleading guilty to the manslaughter of Tina.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Watson charged, locked up in US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 255  words


ALABAMA prosecutors will allege Gabe Watson murdered his wife on their
Queensland honeymoon to pocket $US200,000 in insurance payouts.

The theory was revealed on Thursday just minutes after Watson walked off a
Qantas flight from Melbourne and into the waiting handcuffs of US authorities at
Los Angeles international airport.

``Gabe Watson has been served a warrant in Los Angeles,'' Don Valeska, head of
Alabama's Attorney-General's violent crime division, said.

``He is in custody.''

Watson is locked up in a cell at the Los Angeles Police Department's 77th Street
complex in south central Los Angeles.

The 33-year-old is likely to spend four to seven days in the lockup before a Los
Angeles judge decides whether he will be extradited from California to Alabama.

Shortly after Watson's arrest at the airport, Alabama Attorney-General Troy King
announced a grand jury in Birmingham, Alabama last month charged Watson with two
murder counts: capital murder in the course of kidnapping; and capital murder
for pecuniary gain.

The grand jury's decision had to be kept secret until Watson's arrest.

The indictment states Alabama will not seek the death penalty against Watson.

Mr Valeska said Watson was motivated to kill his wife of 11 days, Tina, for the
financial windfall insurance policies would bring him.

Watson's Alabama lawyer Brett Bloomston has vowed to clear Watson's name and
questioned the ``ethical reasons'' behind the attorney-general's office pursuing
charges against Watson when he had already served time for Tina's death.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday

BRIEF: Dozens Arrested in $100 Million Medicare Fraud Scheme

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 232 words


Oct. 13--LOS ANGELES ( KTLA) -- Dozens of people have been arrested in Los
Angeles and across the country in a $100 million Medicare fraud scheme.

Federal agents served search warrants across Southern California Wednesday
morning as well as cities in Georgia, Louisiana, New Mexico, New York and Ohio
in the coast-to-coast crackdown on healthcare fraud, id theft and organized
crime.

An estimated three dozen people were served with arrest and search warrants in
Southern California. 34 were arrested in Los Angeles, 44 were charged in New
York.

Authorities say some of the suspects have links to an Armenian organized crime
group that has tentacles reaching overseas.

The suspects allegedly stole the identities of both doctors and patients, and
set up fake clinics and bank accounts. Authorities say the suspects are accused
of using the names to submit about $100 million in bills and got back more than
$35 million from Medicare.

The scheme involved over 100 bogus healthcare providers in about 25 states.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20101013-5LA-BRF-Dozens-Arrested-in-100-Million-Medicare-Fraud-Scheme-1013-20101
013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            December 10, 2010 Friday

Suspect jailed in Pico Rivera smash-and-grab jewelry robbery

BYLINE: By Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


PICO RIVERA - A man was behind bars Friday on suspicion of taking part in a
smash-and-grab jewelry robbery at the Pico Rivera Indoor Swap Meet, authorities
said.

Christopher Holley, 18, was booked on suspicion of the crime, which took place
about 6:15 p.m. at the swap meet, 7860 Paramount Blvd., Sgt. Rodney Johnson of
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau said.

He was listed as a Los Angeles resident, though authorities said he claimed to
have been staying in Lancaster.

The robbery was carried out by Holley and six other men who fled the scene in
two cars, leaving him behind, officials said.

"He got left behind and was trying to blend in with patrons from a nearby
business," Johnson said. Deputies arrested him without incident.

While Thursday's heist has not been definitively linked to any others, the
robbery highlighted a trend of smash-and-grab jewelry store robberies that have
been on the rise throughout Los Angeles County and Southern California over the
past nine months or so, Johnson said.

"We don't have any evidence that (Holley) or his group have been involved in
others, but it seems that groups have decided that this is going to be their
crime of choice," he said.

Similar crimes took place in Pasadena on Nov. 17, Oct. 30 in El Monte, and in
other places such as Los Angeles, Glendale and Orange County, authorities said.

Just as in the Pico Rivera crime, the others have involved groups of young black
men who smashed open display cases with hammers or other items before helping
themselves to jewelry and fleeing in waiting getaway cars, officials said.

The robbers in the crimes so far have all worked quickly, Johnson added.
"They're in and out within 90 seconds or a couple of minutes."

It was unclear whether the recent smash-and-grab jewelry robbery trend is the
work of one gang, Johnson said, or if it's simply growing in popularity among
criminal groups.

At least half a dozen suspects already arrested in connection with the crimes
have all been members of the Crips street gang from Los Angeles, investigators
said.

Johnson said detectives were still looking into whether Holley had gang ties
Friday.

According to sheriff's booking records, Holley was being held in lieu of $42,550
bail at the sheriff's Pico Rivera Station. He was due for arraignment Monday in
Whittier Superior Court.

brian.day@sgvn.com

562-698-0955, ext. 3028

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Geelong Advertiser (Australia)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday
                           1 - First Edition Edition

Alabama outlines kill plot

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 389 words


ALABAMA prosecutors will allege Gabe Watson murdered his wife on their
Queensland honeymoon to pocket $US200,000 in insurance payouts.

The theory was revealed on Thursday just minutes after Watson walked off a
Qantas flight from Melbourne and into the waiting handcuffs of US authorities at
Los Angeles international airport.

``Gabe Watson has been served a warrant in Los Angeles,'' Don Valeska, head of
Alabama's Attorney-General's violent crime division, said.

``He is in custody.''

Watson is locked up in a cell at the Los Angeles Police Department's 77th Street
complex in south central Los Angeles, an area known for murders by violent
gangs, including the Bloods, Crips and Mexican Mafia.

The 33-year-old is likely to spend four to seven days in the lock-up before a
Los Angeles judge decides whether he will be extradited from California to
Alabama.

Shortly after Watson's arrest at the airport, Alabama Attorney-General Troy King
announced a grand jury in Birmingham, Alabama last month charged Watson with two
murder counts: capital murder in the course of kidnapping; and capital murder
for pecuniary gain.

The grand jury's decision had to be kept secret until Watson's arrest.

The indictment states Alabama will not seek the death penalty against Watson.

Mr Valeska said Watson was motivated to kill his wife of 11 days, Tina, for the
financial windfall insurance policies would bring him.

``The total would have been about $US200,000,'' Mr Valeska said.

``Her work insurance would have been $US150,000 and $US50,000 from another.''

Alabama authorities believe Watson hatched a plan to kill 26-year-old Tina
before they departed Alabama for their 2003 honeymoon in Australia, which
included a seven-day scuba dive trip off the coast of Queensland.

Tina drowned on the first day of the expedition while the newlyweds dived the
shipwreck Yongola, off Townsville.

Watson's Alabama lawyer Brett Bloomston has vowed to clear Watson's name and
questioned the ``ethical reasons'' behind the attorney-general's office pursuing
charges against Watson when he has already served time in Queensland for Tina's
death.

Watson completed an 18-month jail sentence in Queensland earlier this month
after pleading guilty to the manslaughter of Tina, but Alabama authorities and
Tina's parents were outraged by what they thought was a lenient sentence. --AAP

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GAT


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday

LOS ANGELES USES LIGHT TO FIGHT CRIME

BYLINE: Jean Guerrero

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 52 words


Los Angeles has expanded its Summer Night Lights program this year, which it
credits with reducing gang-related crime in parks as part of broader
community-improvement effort; cities across country are emulating program, but
broader impact and overall effectiveness of such programs can be hard to
measure; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday

Area plans Wednesday tribute to Officer Louie Pompei who died 15 years ago
fighting crime

BYLINE: By Imani Tate, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 828 words


SAN DIMAS - Louis Pompei died as he lived: protecting the public and serving
victims of crimes.

On Wednesday, grateful San Dimas residents and friends from Glendora, other San
Gabriel Valley police and the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department will
remember the 30-year-old officer who was killed June 9, 1995, saving a life and
stopping a crime.

The tribute to Pompei, a San Dimas resident and Glendora police officer, begins
at 6 p.m. in Via Verde Park in San Dimas. The park and its Louis Pompei Memorial
are near the Vons market where Pompei was mortally wounded by armed men in a
failed takeover robbery.

It wasn't the first time Pompei proved his mettle in times of crisis.

In 1989, he helped save the life of a Los Angeles police officer who was having
a heart attack. He later helped his fiancee, Tracey Taylor-Careaga, and her
family cope with the death of her brother from cancer.

Men he'd arrested sometimes wrote him letters of appreciation, thanking him for
being a catalyst in turning their lives around.

Cops and criminals nicknamed him Robocop for his efficient professionalism and
persuasive ability to convince young people to get on or stay on the right path.

Pompei, the youngest of six children, was born Aug. 4, 1964, in Shenandoah, Pa.,
raised in Mahanoy City and earned a bachelor's in criminal justice
administration from Mansfield University. He joined the Glendora force as a
police officer trainee in October 1987 and was hired full-time in March 1988
after he finished Sheriff's Academy training.

He worked on patrol until he became a narcotics detective in 1992. In 1995, he
was named a Glendora agent assigned to L.A. Impact, an elite drug task force of
San Gabriel Valley officers and sheriff's deputies taking down major drug
suppliers.

Glendora police Capt. Robert Castro and now-retired Lt. Gino Domico talked about
their colleague in a recent interview that revealed their continuing anguish
over Pompei's death.

"He was just a great guy, always willing to help others. He took me in after I
was divorced," Domico said. "He came into narcotics as I was leaving to teach
DARE."

Domico said Pompei wore a T-shirt advertising the anti-drug program when he
performed search warrants.

Castro and Domico were among many who respected, liked and admired the avid L.A.
Kings fan, physical-fitness buff and athlete who helped the
Glendora-Monrovia-Arcadia police team complete the grueling Baker-to-Vegas
Challenge Cup run and personally took second place in California Police Olympics
body-building.

Domico laughed when he talked about Pompei's sense of humor and love of dogs. He
regaled friends with jokes. When working the graveyard shift, he'd sometimes
bring along his Doberman, Dios, as his unofficial canine patrol partner.

"Louie was trustworthy, loyal, a friend you could count on to always be there
for you," Castro said, his voice catching. "Everyone liked him - veterans, young
cops, management. The cadets always wanted to ride along with him. He was a man
worth emulating because he was hard-working, intelligent, friendly, helpful."

Castro painfully recounted the night Pompei died.

Working undercover, he had just finished a surveillance with the task force and
was on his way home. He dropped off his fiancee and went to Vons to buy dog
food.

"There had been a series of takeover robberies in San Gabriel Valley markets.
Louie was standing in a checkout line when a suspect produced a handgun and
ordered everyone down on the floor," Castro said.

Pompei complied - until the robber began pistol whipping an employee. He then
identified himself as a policeman and tried to convince the robber to stop
hurting the man. The robber opened fire. Pompei returned fire but was unaware a
second robber was behind him until he was shot from the back.

Shot in the chest, abdomen and leg, Pompei wounded both robbers before they
escaped in a car driven by a third person. Pompei dialed 9-1-1 on a pay phone
before collapsing. He was taken to San Dimas Community Hospital.

"He survived for one hour but died during surgery," Castro said softly. "They
couldn't control the bleeding. He had taken direct shots in the heart. His heart
was beyond repair."

Community activist Gary Enderle said local residents immediately responded with
condolences to his family and co-workers and placed flowers and flags near the
phone where he finally fell.

Enderle and San Dimas Marketplace director Maryann Stubblefield organized a
candlelight tribute at Via Verde Park three days after Pompei's death. The
memorial was attended by 200 people.

"The thing I remember most about that night was seeing two buses filled with
Glendora policemen and staff pull up. They filed out, eyes still red from crying
and pain clearly etched on their faces," Enderle said.

Enderle later organized development of the Louis Pompei Memorial on a strip of
undeveloped park land. Nurseries, businesses, residents and police donated the
materials, money and labor to complete the landscaped memorial.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Louis Pompei of San Dimas, a Glendora Police Department officer and
member of a San Gabriel law enforcement task force to combat drug trafficking,
was killed in San Dimas on Aug. 9, 1995 while trying to stop abuse of hostages
during an armed robbery.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Editorial;
Right to know;
Public should get crime information {SUBHEAD} Public should get crime
information

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 374 words


CITIZENS are right to worry about the invasions of privacy that go hand in glove
with our Internet age. Our security can be compromised in cyberspace. Our
financial security, especially, has never been more open to invasion by
sophisticated crooks.

Citizens are being misled, though, if they think California law enforcement is
releasing more data about both victims and perpetrators of crimes as electronic
records become more common.

The reverse is true. Even what previous generations of "cop-shop" reporters have
known as the police blotter - the simple list of crimes reported and requests
for aid made in a community - is getting harder to access in many California
cities, especially in Los Angeles.

There is, in fact, a clampdown on information the public has traditionally had a
right to know from law enforcement. The latest attempt to go in reverse was a
bill sponsored by Assemblywoman Norma Torres, D-Ontario, that would have allowed
police to withhold information about crime victims.

AB 1682 seemed to come out of nowhere. There has been no untoward release of
victims' information that led to any problems. But the bill was written at the
behest of Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca, who said he feared deputies'
safety could be compromised (he didn't say how) or victims could be
re-victimized. It hasn't happened, he acknowledged, but it is "only a matter of
time."

The measure would have restricted information about a crime victim's address to
the city in which they live. That hurts our ability to let the public know about
dangers in their own neighborhoods - while not by any means endangering anyone
else. Newspapers, including this one, don't publish the addresses of crime
victims, but we do give the block on which they occurred, such as "the 1200
block of North Main Street." This provides valid information to readers about
the location of crimes. They have a right to know their street is the site of a
crime, and news organizations, on readers' behalf, ought to have access to that
information. The Torres bill would have stopped our ability to do that.

Fortunately, the bill was defeated in the Public Safety Committee last week.
Torres threatens to bring it back. She should be dissuaded from that misguided
attempt.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 27, 2010 Friday

SOCIAL STUDIES;
A DAILY MISCELLANY OF INFORMATION

BYLINE: MICHAEL KESTERTON

SECTION: GLOBE LIFE; Facts & Arguments; Pg. L6

LENGTH: 827 words


mkesterton@globeandmail.com

Can be easy to forget

"The central lesson of genealogy is both banal and profound," Buzzy Jackson
writes for The Boston Globe. "We are all related. The human race is a sea of
distant cousins separated only by geography and circumstance."

Predictive policing

"The future of crime fighting begins with a story about strawberry Pop-Tarts,
bad weather and Wal-Mart," Joel Rubin writes for the Los Angeles Times. "With a
hurricane bearing down on the Florida coast several years ago, the retail giant
sent supply trucks into the storm to stock shelves with the frosted pink
pastries. The decision to do so had not been made on a whim or a hunch, but by a
powerful computer that crunched reams of sales data and found an unusual but
undeniable fact: When Mother Nature gets angry, people want to eat a lot more
strawberry Pop-Tarts. Officials in the Los Angeles Police Department are using
the anecdote to explain a similar, but far more complicated, idea that they and
researchers say could revolutionize law enforcement. ... Predictive policing is
rooted in the notion that it is possible, through sophisticated computer
analysis of information about previous crimes, to predict where and when crimes
will occur. At universities and technology companies in the U.S. and abroad,
scientists are working to develop computer programs that, in the most optimistic
scenarios, could enable police to anticipate, and possibly prevent, many types
of crime."

Snooping today

"Soon there will be no place to hide: The power to identify people merely from
photographs on the Internet is about to be unleashed," Chris Gourlay reports for
The Sunday Times of London. "A software company called Face.com is making
available technology that can identify individuals on social networking sites
and other online galleries by comparing their image against a known picture of
them. The move threatens to turn the Internet into an all-seeing eye ... Until
now the company, like others with similar technology, has limited its use
because of concerns over invasion of privacy. However, it has now started
releasing its Photo Finder software to developers that are building applications
to allow people to search for anyone, anywhere on the Net."

Anger management

"A man in China has been growing the nails on his left hand for 13 years - to
help him control his temper," Orange News U.K. reports. "Wen Jian, 41, of
Changle, Fujian province, says he was always getting into fights before he grew
his nails. His longest nail is 35 centimetres long and prevents him from making
his hand into a fist, reports Fuzhou News. Wen said: 'When I was young, I was
very bad-tempered. I was very aggressive and always getting into trouble. I
decided to grow my nails to help me control my temper because it makes me think
before throwing a punch.'"

Give back our Kremlin

"The Russian state has been given a month by a court to prove it owns the
Kremlin after descendants of Ivan the Terrible filed a lawsuit to stake their
claim to the Moscow landmark," The Daily Telegraph reports. "The Princes
Foundation, an organization representing the descendents of Rurik, a
ninth-century prince whose eponymous dynasty ruled until 1598, has argued that
its ancestors built and lived in the 69-acre Kremlin complex and that it should
now be returned to their ownership."

Criminal minds

"Kea parrots are renowned thieves in their native New Zealand, and with good
reason - even a complicated sequence of locks can't foil them," New Scientist
magazine reports. "Hiromitsu Miyata of Kyoto University in Japan first presented
keas with boxes of food secured with up to three bolts. The parrots managed to
open all of them, so he made the tasks harder. The most challenging setup
involved two bolts blocking each other such that one needed to be slid open
before the second would release. Miyata found that the keas cracked this problem
faster if they were allowed to study the setup for a while before attempting to
break it. This suggests they are able to plan their moves, he says. Until now,
the birds were thought to tackle problems in a haphazard fashion."

Don't say this

Kids sometimes ask their parents awkward questions ("Why are you two fighting?"
"What happens when you die?" "Why does Grandpa smell?"). An article by Ted
Spiker in Parenting magazine describes how to answer the tough ones. The author
also lists some "answers you wish you could give, but can't":

* Why were you on top of Mommy, Daddy? "She doesn't like reverse cowgirl all
that much."

* Is Santa real? "Dude, do you really believe elves who live in a part of the
world without much of an electrical infrastructure can program Wii games? Think,
Frank, think."

* What happens when you die? "Worms feed on your eyes."

* Who do you love best? "Your younger sister. And it's 'whom.'"

Thought du jour

"What Paul says about Peter tells us more about Paul than about Peter." * Baruch
Spinoza (1632-77)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           February 6, 2010 Saturday

Esotouric rolls through unearthing the valley's past

BYLINE: By Caroline An, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words


LOS ANGELES - For the eclectic minds behind Esotouric, every bus ride
crisscrossing the streets of the Southland helps uncover the region's rich
layers from bizarre crimes to offbeat cultural tales.

Almost every Saturday, Richard Schave, Kim Cooper, Joan Renner and other
Esotouric cast members including Crimebo the Clown, roll out on the streets of
Los Angeles to give riders a sense of the city's rhythm - from downtown
skyscrapers to neglected neighborhoods.

"Los Angeles is a collection of stories. The buildings, the beautiful
architecture," Schave said. "What really resonates with people are the wonderful
stories."

Case in point. Novelist and screenwriter Raymond Chandler worked across the
street from the Los Angeles Athletic Club and routinely played bridge in the
historic building, Cooper said.

Esotouric bus adventures launched in 2007, the offspring of 1947project, a blog
started by Cooper to document the criminal history of L.A. in 1947; later
iterations included chronicling the years 1927 and 1907.

Cooper is the mastermind behind Esotouric's crime tours, researching digital
newsprints, library books, police reports and scrolling the Internet late into
the night to cull all of the information she needs.

"I type in major streets along with the words `grizzly,' `severed' or
`horrifying,"' Cooper said, explaining her method to finding untold and in some
cases, unsolved Los Angeles crime stories.

It's no simple bus ride, however - the tours are engaging and visual, mixing
crime, social history, urban studies and architecture.

Nearly three years later, there are 16 different tours, including "The Real
Black Dahlia," one of the oldest tours which follows the last weeks of Elizabeth
Short's life. Local literary figures, such as Chandler and Charles Bukowski, are
given their own special road trips.

Have a hankering to relive forgotten crimes of the San Gabriel Valley with a
side of tasty dumplings? Then take Esotouric's "Blood and Dumplings tour," a
nearly four hour tour that rides past Phil Spector's palatial estate in
Alhambra, and cruises through parts of Temple City, El Monte, Rosemead, Monterey
Park. The tour concludes with a meal of dumplings. Even Pasadena has its own
tour - "Pasadena Confidential."

If the the mean streets of downtown Los Angeles during the 1940s peak your
interest, then the "Downtown Double Feature: Hotel Horrors & Main Street Vice"
is your tour.

"The dark streets, tall buildings, a little rain coming down and the swaying
palm trees...you know you're going to come across a dead body," Renner joked.

Renner's specialties include corruption and vintage cosmetics and she is a
regular speaker on the tours, including "The Real Black Dahlia." Elizabeth Short
was a woman ahead of her time, Renner said. Short's elaborate make-up defied the
traditional girl-next-door look that women went for in the 1940s.

"When she was done with her make-up, she was reminiscent of a geisha," Renner
said.

"She looked like a goth," Cooper said.

Schave's role is part route planner, "he always manages to find an obscure
freeway offramp," Cooper said, technical wizard and occasional tour guide.

Context is key when it comes to architecture in Southern California.

"If you look at it expecting New York or Paris, you are doomed to find nothing,"
Schave said. "If you look at in context, it will be more interesting and
wonderful."

Maintaining the Web site and also updating the tours is a labor of love. Schave
said that in some ways, the various tours seek to help people determine their
version of the LA story.

"History can be in a pile of letters ... or things from your great aunt's
vanity," he said.

caroline.an@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 2109

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Crew member Joan Renner, from left, and founders Richard Schave andKim
Cooper pose on the rooftop of the Los Angeles Athletic Club in LosAngeles,
Calif. Tuesday afternoon Feb. 2, 2010.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

There will be no backing down on a safe Los Angeles

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 796 words


THE story of public safety in Los Angeles has long been mired in violence, gang
crime, and corruption. For too long, the streets were not safe and neighborhoods
lived in fear.

That has changed.

Our streets are now the safest they have been since the Eisenhower
administration and in the five years that Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa has been in
office, Los Angeles has witnessed a 40 percent drop in homicides and a 29
percent reduction in violent crime.

Our mayor made public safety his top priority and has delivered results.

At the end of 2009, Los Angeles had the fewest homicides and violent crimes
since 1967. As of last week, the year-to-date crime statistics show that crime
in 2010 is continuing to drop, with violent crime down 12 percent and homicides
down 5 percent from the same period last year.

One major contributing factor to this historic drop in crime has been the
mayor's unwavering commitment to grow the Los Angeles Police Department. Another
factor has been the mayor's insistence on greater investment in police
resources, prevention strategies, and intervention initiatives to keep our young
people out of gangs and off the streets.

That is why in 2007, the mayor created the Office of Gang Reduction and Youth
Development (GRYD), which oversees and coordinates all city gang prevention,
intervention, and re-entry programs. The mayor made a strategic, targeted
investment in the neighborhoods most affected by gang violence, the youth most
likely to join gangs, and those individuals who are seeking a safe way out. This
program has proven results. Overall in the 12 GRYD Zones, gang related crime is
down 11.4 percent and violent crime has decreased by 11.5 percent.

That same year, the mayor also launched a program called Summer Night Lights
with the simple idea that if we keep the lights on at parks in the communities
most affected by violence, we can offer positive alternatives to crime and
violence throughout long summer evenings. After just its first summer,
communities around SNL parks experienced a 17 percent drop in violent
gang-related crime with an astounding 86 percent reduction in gang-related
homicides. SNL gained national acclaim and now serves as a model for cities
across the country. In its third year, the mayor expanded this program to 24
parks across Los Angeles and by summer's end we expect hundreds of thousands of
visits to the city's SNL sites.

These efforts represent a sea of change in the way we work to reduce gang
violence, and offer hope and alternatives for a better future for our kids. We
are taking back our communities for families who want and deserve to live in
peace without the fear of violence and crime.

When he first took office, the Mayor Villaraigosa pledged to make Los Angeles a
world-class model for emergency preparedness and homeland security. Since then,
he has worked with our regional partners to achieve this goal by opening the
Joint Regional Intelligence Center and creating the Los Angeles Regional
Interoperable Communications System. Once completed, LA-RICS will provide a
single, regional communication system, allowing the LAPD, the LAFD, the county
of Los Angeles, and every first responder in the greater Los Angeles region to
seamlessly communicate, whether during routine operations or large scale
emergencies.

Much like his commitment to the Police Department, the mayor has also stood firm
in his support for the Los Angeles Fire Department. Since July 2005, the city
has hired 947 new firefighters and has reduced response times to five minutes on
average. We've built 15 new fire stations, increased the number of resources at
existing stations, and have more 911 dispatchers than ever before.

We have also stepped up security measures at our airports and LAX now has more
sworn police officers, non-sworn security officers, and bomb detection canine
teams than any other airport in the United States. The city also secured $500
million in federal funds for LAX's inline baggage program, a state-of-the-art
inspection of passenger baggage.

In addition, since 2005, the city of Los Angeles has received $456 million in
Homeland Security and Public Safety grants including the Urban Area Security
Initiative received from Department of Homeland Security to increase our
capabilities to prevent, protect, respond, and recover to acts of terrorism and
natural disasters.

The mayor has been clear - and we must never forget - that safety is the
foundation of any successful city. Safety sets the stage for a growing economy,
quality public schools, and vibrant communities. Los Angeles is well on its way
to becoming the safest large city in America. Even as we've dealt with historic
budget shortfalls, he has never backed down from his commitment to keeping our
city safe and he never will.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  DAILY NEWS CALL TO ACTION FIXING A BROKEN CITY Eileen M. Decker is the
deputy mayor for Homeland Security and Public Safety

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 29, 2010 Monday

BRIEF: Jaywalkers Face Hefty Fines in New LAPD Crackdown

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 204 words


Nov. 29--LOS ANGELES -- Pedestrians caught jaywalking in downtown L.A. this
holiday season could end up walking with a hefty fine.

The LAPD is ramping up a zero-tolerance policy for jaywalkers downtown,
particularly the Historic Core area.

They say the stepped up effort is aimed at reducing accidents and preventing
street crime.

According to LAPD Lt. Paul Vernon, 'Jaywalking is often done by thieves, purse
snatchers and robbery suspects to target their victims."

Authorities said officers will paying particular attention to Spring and Main
streets.

A citation won't be cheap, now costing $191.

The cost of tickets in Los Angeles has become an issue as officials increasingly
turn to parking and traffic violations as a way to boost their depleted coffers.

The ticket for an expired meter in Los Angeles jumped from $40 in 2008 to about
$50 last year, and "fix-it" tickets for minor moving violations such as broken
tail lights more than doubled.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20101129-5LA-BRF-Jaywalkers-Face-Hefty-Fines-in-New-LAPD-Crackdown-1129-20101129

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                           September 19, 2010 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Brand arrested after paparazzi clash at airport;
In Brief

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 246 words


LOS ANGELES: Comedian and Hollywood star Russell Brand has been arrested after
allegedly attacking a photographer at Los Angeles airport. Brand was arriving
with his fiancee, singer Katy Perry, when the altercation erupted amid a scrum
of photographers and cameramen jostling to take pictures.

The photographer who was allegedly struck made a citizen's arrest of the star,
before airport police arrived and detained him. "About 1.50pm today Los Angeles
airport police responded to ... a report of a battery involving a celebrity and
a commercial photographer," airport police said on Friday. "The victim involved
placed the suspect under private person's arrest. Airport police took the
suspect into custody for Penal Code Section 242 - battery." He was taken to a
nearby police station to be booked. Perry later tweeted that her fiance was
protecting her from the invasiveness of the waiting photographers. Video footage
of the clash on the TMZ website showed Brand and Perry being surrounded by a
scrum of photographers and cameramen. Brand - wearing a black T-shirt saying
"God, come on give me a break" - could be seen pushing one of them away and
later having a verbal altercation with the same photographer. The hirsute star
achieved infamy in Britain when he and fellow radio DJ Jonathan Ross were
sanctioned by the BBC after making a prank on-air phone call to actor Andrew
Sachs. While Ross was suspended, Brand resigned and has since made a name for
himself in Hollywood.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Incoming ...Russell Brand and Katy Perry at Los Angeles
airport before the altercation; (above) Perry's tweet about it. Main photo:
Snapper Media

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday

LA IS LATEST CITY TO SEE CRIME DROP

BYLINE: Tamara Audi

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 55 words


Los Angeles saw 314 homicides in city in 2009, lowest number since 281 killings
in 1967; city also saw decline in rapes, robberies and assaults; Washington, DC,
with 143 killings saw its lowest tally since 1966, while San Francisco's 45
homicides were least in 48 years; violent crime has been dropping nationwide
since 2007; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'Really sad' day for city; Memphis mourns brutal slaying of Lorenzen Wright

BYLINE: John McMullen, Sports Network

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 478  words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Pa


A body riddled with bullets was found in southeast Memphis Wednesday afternoon
in a thickly wooded area near FedEx's world headquarters.

It was just another sad ending in a city that has become notorious for its gang
problems and ever-increasing homicide rate.

But, Lorenzen Wright was the last person who should have been caught up in the
underbelly of Memphis.

Wright spent 13 years in the NBA after being selected seventh overall by the Los
Angeles Clippers in the 1996 draft.

Raised near Oxford, Miss., the River City would become a constant in Wright's
short life. The 6-foot-11 power forward played his high school and college ball
in Memphis, and eventually ended up with the Grizzlies in 2001-02 when he was
traded by the Atlanta Hawks along with Pau Gasol and Brevin Knight to the Grizz
for Shareef Abdur-Rahim and Jamaal Tinsley.

Although he never lived up to the billing of a top-10 pick, Wright carved out a
niche that enabled him to make over $55 million over his NBA career, and he
never hesitated to give back to his hometown.

During his first of three NBA stints in Atlanta, Wright, Penny Hardaway and two
other Memphisarea NBA players (Todd Day and Elliot Perry) furnished $10,000 to
Travis Butler, a nine-year-old boy who lived with his mother's corpse for a
month out of fear he would be put in foster care if anyone found out she was
dead.

He also founded the Sierra Simone Wright Scholarship Fund designed to award
students for academic achievement and heavy involvement in their school or
community after the death of his infant daughter in March 2003.

Now, all that's left of Wright's legacy is for police to figure out what
happened to him in the early morning hours of July 19.

The 34-year-old Wright was last seen alive on July 18 and was reported missing
by his family four days later. A 911 call was received from Wright's cellphone
at 1 a.m. on the 19th and the caller, presumably Wright, was speaking with the
dispatcher when several gun shots rang out.

According to 730 Fox Sports in Memphis, Wright was shot at least a dozen times
and possibly as many as 18 times.

By Wednesday night, local media reports had nearly 200 people gathering in the
area Wright's body was found as investigators combed the area for evidence and
brought in a mobile command centre.

"We are deeply saddened by the tragic death of Lorenzen Wright," Grizzlies owner
Michael Heisley said in a statement. "We lost a member of the Grizzlies family."

Family and friends, meanwhile, are having a difficult time coming to terms with
Wright's tragic end.

"Lorenzen's family has come together to mourn his loss and honour his legacy,"
his family said in a statement issued through their cousin, Camella Logan.

Wright leaves behind six children and a mystery for Memphis to solve.

Friend Stan McKinley said. "You don't do a dog like this. It's just a really sad
day for the city as a whole."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Getty Images File; Lorenzen Wright (left) and  Josh Smith watching
the game last year between the Atlanta Dream and  the Los Angeles Sparks. Wright
was last seen alive on July 18. His  bullet-riddled body was found days later.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2010 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LAPD Chief Beck won't get salary increase

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 230 words


Although he received positive reviews for his first year as Los Angeles police
chief, Charlie Beck will not get a raise because of the city's budget crisis,
the Police Commission decided Tuesday.

Commission President John Mack said the five-member civilian board was "very
pleased" with Beck but thought it would be inappropriate to authorize the
expected 5 percent increase in his $307,290-a-year salary because of the city's
dire financial situation.

"Even if we had decided to approve the salary for him, he would decline," Mack
said after the commission met in closed session for Beck's performance
evaluation. "It's very clear that we have a leader who leads by example, one who
recognizes the importance of shared sacrifice ... in this extremely, extremely
difficult time."

Beck, a 33-year veteran of the Los Angeles Police Department, had been entitled
to a 5 percent pay increase because of a provision in the city charter. In July,
Beck volunteered to take a 10 percent pay cut when increases to city employees'
salaries were frozen.

Crime rates have continued to fall under Beck's command, even as he has
struggled to maintain service amid cuts to the LAPD's budget.

Violent crime is down 11 percent citywide from a year ago, with homicides on
track to fall under 300 for the year, the lowest since 1967. Property crimes are
down about 7 percent.

cj.lin@dailynews.com,

818-713-3738

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            October 15, 2010 Friday

Armenian gangsters accused of huge Medicare fraud

BYLINE: TOM HAYS

LENGTH: 210 words



HIGHLIGHT: A VAST network of Armenian gangsters and their associates used
phantom health care clinics and other means to try to cheat the government
medical insurance programme Medicare of $163 million (£103m), the largest fraud
by one criminal enterprise in its history.


Federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere charged 73 people. Most of the
defendants were captured during raids in New York and Los Angeles, but there
also were arrests in New Mexico, Georgia and Ohio. The scheme's scope and
sophistication "puts the traditional Mafia to shame," US attorney Preet Bharara
said at a Manhattan news conference. "They ran a veritable fraud franchise."

The operation was under the protection of an Armenian crime boss, known as a
"vor", prosecutors said. The reputed boss, Armen Kazarian, was in custody in Los
Angeles.

Mr Bharara said it was the first time a vor - "the rough equivalent of a
traditional godfather" - had been charged in a US fraud case. Kazarian, 46, of
California, and two alleged ringleaders - Davit Mirzoyan, 34, also of
California, and Robert Terdjanian, 35, of New York - were named in an indictment
in Manhattan charging conspiracy, bank fraud, money laundering and identity
theft.

Authorities began the investigation after personal information on 2,900 Medicare
patients in New York state  was reported stolen.

The defendants had stolen the identities of doctors and set up 118 phantom
clinics in 25 states, authorities said. The names were used to submit fake bills
for care that was never given, they said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Los Angeles Bankruptcy Forum


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Bankruptcy Forum
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Los Angeles County Museum of Art


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Museum of Art
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Los Angeles County Arts Commission


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Arts Commission
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              36 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Los Angeles County Fair


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Fair
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Los Angeles Sparks


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Sparks
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              39 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Los Angeles Zoo


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Zoo
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
             DONOR: Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Services, Inc


                          LAST UPDATED: April 12, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000 - 1,000

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Services, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: County of Los Angeles-Board of Supervisors
                           Discretionary Fund Program


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  County of Los Angeles-Board of Supervisors Discretionary Fund Program
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday

'Law & Order' finds real handgun during filming

LENGTH: 135  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES, Nov. 4 -- The discovery of a real gun brought real police officers
to "Law & Order: Los Angeles" during location filming.

Series spokeswoman Pam Golum said the NBC crime drama was filming Wednesday in
the Culver City area west of downtown Los Angeles when a cameraman spotted the
weapon on a rock.

Los Angeles police spokeswoman Karen Rayner says the semiautomatic handgun was
in working order. It will be test-fired, with the results logged for possible
crime matches.

Skeet Ulrich and Corey Stoll, who star as detectives in the show, were on
location for a scene in which they arrest a man for murder. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2014 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
          DONOR: Los Angeles Cotillion Charitable Trust / Los Angeles
                             Chapter The Links, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: November 26, 2014
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
TAXCODE:  95-3943493
URL:  http://hbcfl.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90010
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Cotillion Charitable Trust / Los Angeles Chapter The Links,
Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

Prosecutor prevails in hearing for three accused in killing Los Angeles man
during drug deal

BYLINE: Cathy Kelly, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 689 words


May 8--SANTA CRUZ -- Three county men will stand trial on murder, robbery and
kidnapping charges for the July 20 death of a Los Angeles man who reportedly
stopped in Santa Cruz on his way from Oakland to Los Angeles to sell the men
marijuana, Judge Jeff Almquist ruled Friday.

The ruling confirming prosecutors had sufficient evidence came at the end of a
preliminary hearing that began Monday.

Stewart Skuba, 32, of Santa Cruz, Adam Hunt, 29, of Watsonville and Kenneth
Clamp, 39, of the San Lorenzo Valley, have denied the charges related to the
disappearance of 29-year-old Elias Sorokin.

Sorokin's body has not been found, though his burned Toyota truck was found near
Bonny Doon.

Sorokin's father, Nick Sorokin, a Los Angeles engineer, commended the prosecutor
and investigators after Friday's hearing.

"I'm sincerely grateful to them," he said. "The defendants need to be put away
for the rest of their lives so they don't commit crimes like this again."

Prosecutor Rob Wade alleges the trio conspired to rob Sorokin and hatched a plan
to use chloroform to disable him, but it didn't work and a fight broke out in
the garage of Skuba's Felix Street home.

The men took him from the garage to dump his body while he was alive, but
unconscious, and they threw him off a cliff north of Santa Cruz, Wade said. He
called the men's actions and those of others at the home who didn't help the
victim "galling."

Evidence includes blood stains in

the garage and the testimony of three people staying at the home: Kristen
Roberts, 19, who had dated Skuba, her 17-year-old brother and their father. The
witnesses reported hearing muffled screams and cries for help from the garage,
among other things, and said they were told or overheard details about Sorokin's
death.

Defense attorneys on Friday attacked the witnesses' credibility, with Hunt's
attorney, George Gigarjian, calling them "lying blame-shifting witnesses" who
are "suspects from beginning to end, in all senses of the word."

"This state of evidence is ridiculous," he said.

He said there was no credible evidence his client was there during the beating,
though the teen boy reported seeing blood on Hunt's hands. Gigarjian called him
an "adolescent firecracker."

Clamp's attorney, Lars Shallberg, said his client came after Sorokin died and
that he got "okey-doked" into helping a friend.

Almquist did not explain his decision, but said simply he found reason to
believe all three participated in events that led to Sorokin's death, and that
it began with a plan to rob him.

Almquist said he believed Sorokin was not dead when he was put in the truck,
after Skuba's attorney, Charlie Stevens, argued against the kidnapping charge by
asserting there is no evidence he was moved before he died.

"There was a lot of ugly stuff and a lot of contradictory stuff, but nothing
shows there was a kidnap," Stevens said.

According to earlier testimony, Roberts, who had a daily drug and alcohol habit,
cleaned up blood in the garage, took some of the 10 or so pounds of stolen
marijuana and prevented her father from calling 911. She also faces charges she
tried to use Sorokin's credit card.

The case broke when Watsonville police stopped Roberts and Skuba about 10 days
later, believing they were in a stolen vehicle. After that stop, Roberts
initiated conversations with police about what had happened the night Sorokin
disappeared, Wade said, and everything she said was later corroborated.

She told investigators Skuba called Clamp to come over after the commotion in
the garage, and that Clamp advised Skuba he really needed to think about whether
he wanted to do this and whether he could live with it, Wade said.

The men are being held in County Jail on $1 million bail.

To see more of The Santa Cruz Sentinel or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Santa Cruz Sentinel,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100508-QC-Prosecutor-prevails-in-hearing-for-three-accused-in-killing-
Los-Angeles-man-during-drug-deal-0508

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2010 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Elio's Fitness, West Los Angeles


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elio's Fitness, West Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              46 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Natural History Museum of Los Angeles


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Natural History Museum of Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: United Way of Greater Los Angeles


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way of Greater Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: United Way of Greater Los Angeles


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way of Greater Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Law & Order adjusts to West Coast life

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, Postmedia News

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. E6

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Spotlight

Law & Order: Los Angeles premieres tonight on Access and NBC.

---

In the broadcast network business, viewers' tastes are reflected in two separate
but unequal types of shows: Those programs that many people watch and can go on
for 15 years or more, and those programs few people watch and that disappear
without a trace.

The makers of Law & Order: Los Angeles, the latest incarnation of a crime
-and-justice TV template that first appeared in 1990 with the original Law &
Order, trust their new series is the former. Either way, it will be up to the
jury -- the viewers at home -- to decide.

The new Law & Order will keep some of the trappings of the old show. The
"cha-chungs," for example.

"You can't do Law & Order without the cha-chungs," newly minted producer Blake
Masters said, referring to the sound effect that separates most scenes in the
show.

The new Law & Order: Los Angeles cast includes Skeet Ulrich and Corey Stoll as
the police detectives who investigate crimes. Alfred Molina, Terrence Howard and
Regina Hall will play the district attorneys who prosecute the offenders.

As with the original Law & Order -- unceremoniously retired in May after a
record-tying 20 seasons -- the new version will tell its story in two parts: the
investigation of a crime, followed by the subsequent court trial.

"I'm not paying Alfred Molina and Terrence Howard to be secondary characters. It
will basically be two acts in two acts: cops and prosecutors," said Law & Order
creator Dick Wolf.

The new setting won't have many of the signature touches of the old series. No
snow, for example. No Central Park, no Upper West Side, no East Village. No
sidewalk vendors, no hotdog stands for gathering and noshing. No Wall Street, no
United Nations. People in Los Angeles don't walk; they drive. So, there will be
fewer street conversations.

Los Angeles -- specifically, Hollywood -- does have something New York doesn't,
however: celebrities -- so many celebrities, there aren't enough late-night talk
shows to keep track of them all.

"It's part of the L.A. mix," Wolf said. "How can you do a show in L.A. without
celebrity crime? It's not going to be every week, but saying we're not going to
touch celebrity crime would be like saying we're going to be in New York and
never deal with the financial community. It's what this city is most known for."

And, yes, that may include Mel Gibson.

"We had a Mel Gibson episode on Law & Order," Wolf pointed out.

That won't rule Gibson out of his very own Law & Order: Los Angeles episode,
though. There's no such thing as double jeopardy in Law & Order's world.

"Listen," Wolf said. "I'm not going to stand here and tell you we are not going
to do stories that are in headlines all over the world. That's what we do.

"We don't actually do those stories, anyway. We use them as a jumping-off point.
We do things that are suggested in the news, and may remind you of those events,
but they are not the same stories. We steal the headlines, not the body copy."

Cha-chung.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Courtesy, NBC; Law & Order: Los Angeles,  starring, from left,
Corey Stoll, Skeet Ulrich and Alfred Molina,  will feature celebrity crime in
the new series.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2010 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Daily Breeze (Torrance, California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

Police seek gunman in Redondo, Hermosa robberies

BYLINE: Larry Altman, Daily Breeze, Torrance, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 312 words


Apr. 23

Police are looking for a gunman who has robbed pedestrians and held up markets
in the South Bay and Los Angeles.

The crimes all occurred March 21, beginning when the man walked into a liquor
store in the 400 block of South Pacific Coast Highway in Redondo Beach and
pulled a gun, police said Friday.

He demanded money, but received none. After the failed attempt, he and a second
robber drove away in a blue Dodge pickup truck, police said.

About 50 minutes later, the man held up two women walking at 34th Street and
Palm Drive in Hermosa Beach.

The man pointed a gun at the women and took their money.

About 7:30 p.m., the same man robbed a market at gunpoint in the 1200 block of
Bellevue Avenue in Los Angeles.

Forty minutes later, he robbed another market in the 3900 block of Figueroa
Street in Highland Park.

The man was described as Latino, 19 to 21 years old, 125 to 155 pounds. He was
about 5 feet 4 inches tall, 125 to 155 pounds and had a goatee.

He wore the same

clothes in each crime. Witnesses described it as dark blue or black beanie,
sunglasses, a white Raiders sweat shirt with black trim, blue jeans and white
shoes.

The second man, seen only at the Redondo Beach crime, was Latino, 5 feet 8
inches tall, 160 pounds with a thin build.

Anyone with information regarding the crimes is asked to call Los Angeles police
Rampart robbery detectives at 213-484-3627.

A video of the suspect is available at www.LAPDtv.org.

larry.altman@dailybreeze.com

To see more of the Daily Breeze or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.dailybreeze.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Daily Breeze, Torrance, Calif.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100423-QT-Police-seek-gunman-in-Redondo-Hermosa-robberies-0423

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QT


                          Copyright 2010 Daily Breeze


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                   The Catalina Islander (Avalon, California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                October 29, 2010

Three Mexican nationals sentenced for drug smuggling;
THE MEN WERE ARRESTED IN APRIL WHEN THEIR BOAT WASHED UP ON CATALINA

BYLINE: The Catalina Islander staff

LENGTH: 632  words


It was the biggest narcotics bust in Catalina's history.

On Sunday, April 18, the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department seized about 4,000
pounds of marijuana worth about $3 million from a boat that ran aground on the
backside of the Island.

It took dozens of sheriff's deputies several hours to load the large rescue
helicopter. Due to the size of the seizure, two helicopter flights were required
to transport the marijuana to the mainland.

Three Mexican nationals, Jesus Miguel Edeveriamontiel, Luis Alfonso Avilezlopez,
and Luciano Cendejas Sanchez, who were on the boat were arrested and transported
to the mainland where they faced federal drug trafficking charges.

On Monday, Oct. 8, a federal court convicted the three for drug trafficking
according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Station in Avalon.

Before announcing their punishment, the presiding judge asked them why they
committed the crime.

The three men told the judge their families had been threatened and they were
forced to be smugglers by drug traffickers in their native country.

At the time of their arrest, Lt. Jeff Donahue of the Sheriff's station in
Avalon, alluded to the possibility that the men had been put up to perform the
crime by more significant figures in the Mexican illegal drug trade.

"Our major narcotics investigating crew interviewed the three suspects," Lt.
Donahue said. "They were very cooperative, cool, calm and collected, which seems
a bit unusual. They obviously are well versed in dealing with the police."

Lt. Donahue said he thought the suspects probably felt better off in the custody
of U.S. officials than having to face the people who sent them off with the
illegal contraband. Mexico has been plagued in recent years with a rash of
murder and violence related to drug trafficking.

However, the convicted men's explanation did not seem to move the court. After
hearing their answers, the judge sentenced each of them to 10 years in a United
States federal prison.

"It's very sad that the main players can't get caught sooner than later," Lt.
Donahue said. "The violence in parts of Mexico is unbelievable, innocent people,
and children as well as other drug dealers are getting killed weekly, all
because of drugs. This kind of shipment that we seized is all related to the
drug cartel down there." After their arrest, the three Mexican suspects told
authorities they had left from Mexico's Rosa-rio Beach, slightly south of
Tijuana, in the 30-foot ponga-type boat that was loaded with about 400 gallons
of gasoline in containers in addition to the pot.

"The drug trade can get pretty vicious down there where drug smugglers have
shootouts with police," Lt. Donahue said. "People get sent messages (threats and
warnings) in the form of body parts."

In April Lt. Donahue said authorities would probably try and use the bust to go
after.more of the people involved in the smuggling of illegal substances from
Mexico.

"It's a common practice we would use to try and catch them." he said.

However, it is not known if the men who were convicted assisted in authorities'
further investigation of the Mexican drug trade.

"These arrests and recovery were the direct result of a diligent and observant
Sheriffs Department employee," said sheriffs headquarters bureau Capt. Mike
Parker. "He called for backup from other law enforcement agencies and Coast
Guard personnel, and we had a very successful outcome.

The smuggling of illegal marijuana has been said to be the fuel for the Mexican
drug cartels to conduct billons of dollars of business that includes other
illicit drugs such as cocaine and methamphet-amine.

California has a ballot measure, Proposition 19, to legalize marijuana on its
November 2 ballot. Supporters propose it would help end or slow the flow of
illegal drugs from Mexico into the United Staes.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CAT

                      Copyright 2010 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                      Copyright 2010 The Catalina Islander


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                               1 - State Edition

$166m in Medicare fake bills

BYLINE: TOM HAYS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 313  words


A VAST network of Armenian gangsters and their associates used phantom
healthcare clinics and other means to try to cheat Medicare of $166 million, the
largest fraud by one criminal enterprise in the US public health program's
history.

Federal police charged 73 people. Most were caught in New York City and Los
Angeles raids, with others in New Mexico, Georgia and Ohio.

The scope and sophistication of the scam ``puts the traditional mafia to
shame'', US Attorney Preet Bharara said, adding: ``They ran a veritable fraud
franchise.''

The operation was protected by an Armenian crime boss, known in the Armenia as a
``vor,'' prosecutors said.

The reputed boss Armen Kazarian was in custody in Los Angeles.

Mr Bharara said it was the first time a vor -- ``the rough equivalent of a
traditional godfather'' -- had been charged in a US racketeering case.

Kazarian and other defendants were to appear in court overnight on charges
including racketeering conspiracy, money laundering and identity theft.

Authorities began the investigation after information on 2900 Medicare patients
in upstate New York -- including social security numbers and dates of birth --
were reported stolen.

The defendants also stole doctors' identities and set up 118 phantom clinics in
25 states. The names were used to submit fake bills for care never given.

Prosecutors said the fake paperwork showed eye doctors doing bladder tests, ear,
nose and throat specialists performing pregnancy ultrasounds and obstetricians
testing for skin allergies.

Unlike other cases involving crooked medical clinics bribing people to sign up
for unneeded treatments, the operation was ``completely notional,'' the FBI's
New York office head Janice Fedarcyk said. ``The whole doctor-patient
interaction was a mirage.''

In New York, more than $101 million in fraudulent bills were submitted and
Medicare paid at least $35.62 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday

Appeals court upholds crime spree conviction

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 141 words


A state appeals court panel in Los Angeles on Tuesday upheld a Monrovia man's
conviction on 33 charges stemming from a September 2008 crime spree.

But the three-justice panel from the 2nd District Court of Appeal ordered the
case against Anthony Brandon Hislar - who had three prior convictions - to be
sent back to Pomona Superior Court so that additional time can be added against
him under the state's "three strikes" law.

Hislar was sentenced in April 2009 to 429 years to life in prison, plus 83
years.

He was convicted in March 2009 of robbery, burglary, carjacking, evading police
and being a felon in possession of a firearm, stemming from a series of crimes
in Monrovia, Azusa, Arcadia, El Monte, Los Angeles, Hermosa Beach and Long
Beach.

Hislar - who had two prior convictions - was arrested in September 2008 as he
was leaving Disneyland.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

PUBLIC FORUM

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 699 words


Count our blessings

Re "L.A. crime lowest since 1960s" (Jan. 7):

There is no doubt that the LAPD is in the best shape it has been in for years
and that it contributed measurably to the decrease in crime. However, what
probably contributes the most to that reduction in crime is the fact that about
170,000 criminals are in jail in California.

It is generally accepted that career criminals commit about 10 crimes per year
before being caught and convicted. That means about 1.7 million crimes may not
be committed in California every year, with a good share of them in Los Angeles.
Paying $35,000 per year to keep criminals locked up in jail might be a bargain
until we figure out how to get to the root causes and solve the problems. Until
then, we should count our blessings that crime is down.

- BOB LARKIN

Westlake Village

Doesn't take a math wizard

The editorial, "Children's health care" (Another View, Jan. 8), is ludicrous. It
says that the "average cost of treating a child for a preventable
hospitalization is $7,000. The cost of providing health coverage for a child is
roughly $1,200." (Is that per month, per year, or per childhood?) For this
program to save money at $1,200 per year, every child would have to be saved
from a $7,000 hospitalization every six years or so, and of course that will
never happen.

There may be good arguments in favor of providing health care for children, but
saving money on direct hospital costs certainly isn't one of them. Truly, to use
the editorial's own words, "It doesn't take a math wizard" to know that.

- SINCLAIR BUCKSTAFF

Northridge

Birmingham Charter responds

Re "Charters, LAUSD in special ed tug of war" (Jan. 7):

LAUSD's Sharyn Howell misrepresents special education services at charter
schools, and unfairly targets Birmingham Community Charter High School. During
its conversion to a charter, Birmingham tried desperately to maintain programs
for all special ed students but was told the district wouldn't support it
because they don't place students in charter schools.

Howell's comments continue to demonstrate a limited willingness by district
staff to work with charters. They also reveal the contentious nature of many
decisions that should be made with the spirit of cooperation for all students. I
taught special ed for 12 years prior to becoming an administrator, and it pains
me to see a decision driven by political issues. We will continue to be
committed to our community, serve over 400 special ed students, and fight to
keep programs that will help them thrive in their lives.

- MARSHA COATES

Lake Balboa

The letter writer is is principal of Birmingham Community Charter High School

Not the way to win a war

Re "Obama talking tough on terror" (Jan. 8):

The Daily News' article covered President Obama's new "get tough" speech very
well. Talking tough is one thing. But, acting tough is what America needs now,
and that is not happening. The Christmas Day attempt to blow up an airplane and
300 innocent people was muffed by the terrorists. Immediately after his capture
he revealed that many more men had been trained for attacks against us.

Normally, this prisoner of war would have undergone intense interrogation and
debriefing to discover everything possible to forearm us against further
attacks. But, that is now taboo under our present administration. Instead, they
read him his "rights" as though he were an American citizen and gave him a
lawyer who promptly shut him up. So, this prisoner of war will keep the secrets
that could have been used to protect us from future tragedies. That is not the
way to win a war.

- SID CONKWRIGHT

Van Nuys

Tax all high-end health plans

Re "Obama OKs taxing high-end health plans" (Jan. 7):

So President Obama is on board for taxing the so-called Cadillac health care
plans, much to the consternation of Nancy Pelosi who is beholden to the big
labor unions that fought so hard to get those plans.

I have 21/2 questions: Why doesn't this apply to all medical plans provided by
businesses to their employees in lieu of a higher salary or wages? Isn't the
value of insurance income? Will the health care plans of our senators,
congressmen, president, federal justices, etc., also be taxed?

- AL KHOLOS

Winnetka

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Letters to the editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday

BRIEF: "Balding Bandit" Wanted in 3 Bank Robberies in La Mirada

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 241 words


Sept. 08--LA MIRADA -- Authorities have released video of a suspect deemed
"Balding Bandit," who they say is responsible for at least three bank robberies
in La Mirada.

The latest robbery was at a Banco Popular branch on Tuesday.

The FBI says the "Balding Bandit" is also responsible for robberies at two Chase
branches -- one on May 14 and another on June 23.

The surveillance video was taken during the July robbery.

He passes a note to the teller that demands cash and says he has a weapon,
according to the FBI.

The FBI named the suspect the "Balding Bandit" because of his receding hairline.

He has worn sunglasses in some of the robberies, and he sometimes uses a cloth
bag to carry the stolen cash, authorities said.

Anyone with information about these crimes is encouraged to contact the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department, Norwalk Station at 562-863-8711.

If you prefer to provide information ANONYMOUSLY, you may call 'Crime Stoppers'
by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to
CRIMES (274637), or using the website

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100908-5LA-BRF-Balding-Bandit-Wanted-in-3-Bank-Robberies-in-La-Mirada-20100908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Baca stumps - again - for bill restricting public information on crime victims

BYLINE: By Nathan McIntire, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


LOS ANGELES - Sheriff Lee Baca and state Assemblywoman Norma Torres pushed
Friday for passage of a bill that would authorize police agencies to keep the
addresses of crime victims secret.

The bill died last month in the Public Safety Committee, losing on a 5-2 vote.
But Baca, who wrote the proposal, and Torres, D-Pomona, continued pressing
lawmakers to pass it at a news conference Friday outside the Twin Towers
Correctional Facility in Los Angeles.

The Public Safety Committee will reconsider the bill Tuesday.

"All of these earnest, crime-stopping Public Safety (Committee) members, I
think, misunderstood the purpose of the bill and voted it down," Baca said.

Assemblyman Anthony Portantino, D-La Ca&#241ada Flintridge, a member of the
committee, voted against the bill last month. He was not available for comment
Friday, but he had previously said he could not support the bill in its current
form.

Torres said the bill had not gone through any substantive changes since being
killed in committee. Amendments were added to "clarify" how the bill would
protect victims, she said.

She added that proposed law is necessary because victims will be more likely to
report crimes if they know their personal information will be kept confidential.

"We want victims to come forward," she said. "We need to do everything we can to
protect them, to protect their privacy."

Under current state law, victims' address information can only be obtained if a
person goes to a police agency and signs a declaration saying they are a member
of the media or the government, according to Peter Scheer, the executive
director of the First Amendment Coalition, a public records advocacy
organization.

Although Baca acknowledged that news organizations never publish victim's
addresses, he said the bill was necessary to prevent victims from being further
victimized by people who can learn their addresses.

Baca singled out bloggers as a main target for the bill, saying they would be
more likely to publish addresses of crime victims because they do not subscribe
to any "ethical canon."

"The reality is that bloggers today are considered journalists," Baca said. "It
makes no sense for a victim to be further traumatized by having their name and
home address scattered around the U.S. as bloggers do."

Baca could not cite any specific cases in which bloggers published a victim's
address, but he said the bill was intended to keep that from happening.

Scheer said the public records law already allows police the appropriate level
of discretion in releasing the names of victims. And he, too, could not think of
a single example of a victim being preyed upon because their address was given
out to the media.

"I'm also not aware of anything bad that's happened under the current law," said
Scheer. "One would expect a little more than just pure speculation on the part
of the sponsors about the need for it."

nathan.mcintire@sgvn.com

626-578-6300, ext. 4475

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca talks to the press about his
support for the Protection of Victims' Information Assembly Bill by
Assemblymember Norma Torres, right, at the Los Angeles County Inmate Reception
Center Friday, April 30, 2010 in Los Angeles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Crime rate dives in US

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 191 words


LOS ANGELES: Last year's crime rate in Los Angeles was the lowest in 50 years,
with drops reported in everything from homicides to car thefts.

Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said 314 homicides had been reported, the fewest
since 1967.

And the crime drops are being mirrored elsewhere in the nation: Washington
finished the year with its lowest murder tally since 1966; San Francisco
reported its lowest number of homicides in 48 years; and New York, Chicago,
Boston and Dallas reported a dramatic year-on-year decline.

Experts believe the fall in violent crime is tied to the ageing population.

``The greying of America is a significant factor,'' James Alan Fox, professor of
criminal justice at Northeastern University in Boston, said.

``The largest and fastest-growing segment of the population is people over 50.
People over 50 also happen to be the age group that is the least likely to
commit crimes. As the group grows, crime rates do decline.''

Professor Fox said a common assumption that crime increases during a recession
was wrong, historic data showing there was little connection between economic
conditions and crime, particularly violent crime.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday

Task force hits tagging crew that left grafitti in Rosemead, El Monte and
Whittier

BYLINE: By Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


A year-long investigation by a multi-agency task force resulted Wednesday in the
arrests of 15 tagging crew members who scrawled their "OCP" moniker in Rosemead,
El Monte, Whittier and dozens of other cities, authorities said.

Sheriff's deputies, police officers, probation officials and federal immigration
agents served warrants at 31 locations in Los Angeles and Riverside counties,
arresting member of "Out Causing Panic," or OCP, officials said.

Authorities have designated the decade-old group a criminal street gang and
linked it to hundreds of graffiti incidents that have caused "hundreds of
thousands of dollars" in damages, officials said in a statement.

Warrants were served in West Covina, El Monte, Whittier and Pico Rivera, said
Lt. Erik Ruble of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Transportation
Services Bureau. In all, authorities served 20 warrants in Los Angeles County
and 11 in Riverside County, he said.

"This crew came to our attention back last year, June 14, 2009, during the
Lakers disturbance," Ruble said.

OCP member came under scrutiny after contributing to the havoc that broke out
following last year's Los Angeles Lakers championship victory at Staples Center,
authorities said.

OCP members were suspected of damaging and scrawling graffiti on a Metro Blue
Line train and an MTA bus during the downtown L.A. melee, Ruble said.

"Through the investigation, we learned they've been involved in other crimes,"
he said.

Sheriff's Sgt. Chris Meadows, in a written statement, said OCP mostly engages in
vandalism.

"However, the investigation revealed members of this tagging crew are involved
in assaults, illegal weapons, robberies and drug sales," he said.

"Law enforcement has documented approximately 700 incidents of vandalism within
Los Angeles County, costing taxpayers and and private entities hundreds of
thousands of dollars," Meadows said.

Those arrested Wednesday ranged in age from 17 to 30, he said. They were booked
on suspicion of numerous crimes, including felony vandalism, participating in
criminal street gang, recruiting and soliciting members of a criminal street
gang, possessing narcotics for sale, receiving stolen property, auto theft,
possession of stolen property and immigration violations.

Their names were not immediately available Wednesday, Ruble said.

Four people already behind bars on suspicion of theft- and robbery-related
crimes also were charged with new crimes as part of the investigation, officials
said.

One of the suspects arrested Wednesday is accused of selling methamphetamine,
after he was found with about an ounce of the drug, Ruble said.

Another is suspected of possessing stolen property, including bullet-proof
helmets believed to have been stolen from a police car.

Officials also confiscated marijuana during the operation Wednesday, along with
items of clothing from an OCP-supported clothing line.

Two of those arrested are Mexican nationals suspected of being in the country
illegally, officials said.

To identify crew members, investigators gathered samples of the "OCP" tag and
members' monikers, Meadows said.

Officials believe OCP has more than 200 members who have committed crimes in Los
Angeles, Riverside, San Diego and San Bernardino counties, Ruble said.

Sheriff's officials in Los Angeles and Riverside counties spearheaded the
investigation after investigators detected OCP members traveling heavily between
the two counties.

The investigation is continuing, Meadows said, and officials continue to seek
five additional suspects.

brian.day@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 4586

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            January 9, 2010 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

No charge yet against MJ doctor: DA

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 193  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Los Angeles prosecutor's office on Friday said it has not yet decided
whether to charge Michael Jackson's doctor with a crime in the pop singer's
sudden death by cardiac arrest last June.

"We have nothing pending. No decision has been made and nothing has been filed,"
said a spokesperson for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office. She
declined further comment.

Earlier Friday, celebrity website TMZ.com cited unnamed law enforcement sources
as saying Los Angeles police concluded their final investigation in December and
would send their findings to the Los Angeles district attorney within weeks to
determine whether to file criminal charges.

TMZ and other publications, also citing unnamed sources, said prosecutors may
charge Dr. Conrad Murray with involuntary manslaughter due to gross negligence
in his treatment of the Thriller singer, to whom the doctor administered the
powerful anesthetic propofol before his death.

Jackson, 50, died on June 25 in Los Angeles, and the county coroner's office has
ruled the death a homicide by drug overdose, determining that propofol and the
sedative Lorazepam were the main drugs that caused his death.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. police chiefs say Ariz. immigration law will increase crime

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 370 words


Arizona's new crackdown on illegal immigration will increase crime in U.S.
cities, not reduce it, by driving a wedge between police and immigrant
communities, police chiefs from several of the state's and the nation's largest
cities said Wednesday.

Arizona's law will intimidate crime victims and witnesses who are illegal
immigrants and divert police from investigating more serious crimes, chiefs from
Los Angeles, Houston and Philadelphia said before meeting with Attorney General
Eric H. Holder Jr. to discuss the measure. Counterparts from Phoenix, Tucson,
San Jose and Montgomery County, among others, joined them.

"This is not a law that increases public safety. This is a bill that makes it
much harder for us to do our jobs," Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said.
"Crime will go up if this becomes law in Arizona or in any other state."

According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, four states have
introduced their own versions of the Arizona law, which defines illegal
immigration as criminal trespassing and requires police to request documents of
anyone they stop and have a "reasonable suspicion" is in the country illegally.

Recent public opinion polls indicate that as many as 70 percent of Americans
surveyed support such a police requirement.  The American Civil Liberties Union
and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund have filed lawsuits
to stop the Arizona law, arguing that the Constitution preempts states from
enforcing federal law and that the measure will lead to racial profiling. The
U.S. Justice Department, which Holder heads, is also weighing whether to file
suit.

While the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police opposes the new law, elected
sheriffs including Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu, head of the Arizona
Sheriff's Association, back it.

Babeu said cooperation from illegal immigrants, particularly those coming from
Mexico, is already low because they are in the United States illegally and
because of law enforcement corruption in their native countries.

"The people of Arizona believe the overall majority of Americans are not only
supportive of this law, but that our measure of generosity has been crossed, a
line has been crossed," Babeu said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             May 22, 2010 Saturday

Homestead Museum hosts `Lawless Los Angeles' tour

BYLINE: By Caroline An, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 328 words


INDUSTRY - Vigilantism, scandal and other sordid criminal tidbits will be
discussed at the Homestead Museum today, through the museum's "Lawless Los
Angeles: A Living History Tour."

The four, one hour-long discussions today will have visitors touring the two
houses on site - the Workman House and La Casa Nueva - where two living history
characters will talk about important criminal events during those decades.

This is the third year the "Lawless Los Angeles" tour has been offered, and the
second living history tour of this year, said Karen Graham Wade, director of the
museum.

Paul Spitzzeri, the museum's collections manager, will portray Luis Wolfskill,
who was a real estate partner of the Workman and Temple families, and whose
father was a prominent rancher.

Spitzzeri will focus on discussing crime in the 1870s, a time "when there were
so few people in the criminal system."

"Citizens were elected and not trained to the job of a police officer,"
Spitzzeri said, adding that his tour will highlight several major crimes,
including the massacre of Chinese residents in Los Angeles in 1871.

The focus will shift to the 1920s where Homestead Museum volunteer Bethanie
Frost will portray fictional character Leona Taylor. She will talk about some
mysterious crimes that occurred in the 1920s.

Unlike the earlier decade, the Roaring '20s were a time of significant
corruption throughout the legal ranks.

Whereas law enforcement experience was an issue in the 1870s, scandals and
problems surrounding the police chiefs and district attorneys were the
highlights of 1920s, Spitzzeri said.

This particular tour is popular, he said.

"I think there is an innate fascination people have with crime," Spitzzeri said.

caroline.an@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 2109

If you go

What: Lawless Los Angeles: A Living History Tour

When:Tours begin at 1, 2, 3 and 4 p.m. today

Where: Homestead Museum, 15415 E. Don Julian Road., Industry

Price: Free; reservations recommended

Contact: 626-968-8492

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Luis Wolfskill, portrayed by Collections Manager Paul Spitzzeri, talks
with visitors about life in the 1870s.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

31 ARRESTED IN MEDICARE BILLING SCHEME;
STING: MAN THOUGHT TO BE HEAD OF CRIME SYNDICATE AMONG 12 FROM GLENDALE TAKEN
INTO CUSTODY.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 773 words


Thirty-one Los Angeles area residents, including a dozen from Glendale, were
arrested Wednesday for their alleged involvement in a national $163 million
Medicare billing scam that officials called the largest in the agency's history.

Part of the sophisticated operation was run by an Armenian-American organized
crime enterprise with ties to Armenia and Russia, New York, Ohio, New Mexico,
Louisiana and Georgia.

Among those arrested was Glendale resident Armen Kazarian, who officials
referred to as an Armenian organized crime godfather, or vor. It was the first
time since 1996 that a known vor had been arrested on any federal charges,
officials said.

The four-year investigation involved the FBI, the IRS and local police
departments, including those in Los Angeles, Burbank and Glendale.

"The emergence of international organized crime in domestic health care fraud
schemes signals a dangerous expansion," said Gary Grinder, acting deputy
attorney general for the Department of Justice.

"(It) poses a serious threat to consumers as these syndicates are willing to
exploit almost any program, business or individual to earn an illegal profit."

In all, more than 70 people were charged in indictments alleging they stole the
identities of physicians, opened 118 phony clinics in 25 states, and charged the
federal Medicare program millions of dollars for services never rendered.

As investigators across the nation worked on separate cases, all arrows pointed
to Los Angeles. Their L.A. investigation, dubbed "Diagnosis Dollars," involved
31 arrests and $17 million in fraudulent billing. In addition to stealing
identities, creating phantom clinics, and billing Medicare, other charges
included money laundering and conspiracy to commit bank fraud.

Eventually, investigators concluded the national fraud scheme was run out of New
York and Los Angeles.

"When you think about Los Angeles as a hub of (medical) fraud it doesn't
surprise anyone," said Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca.

Los Angeles has a proportionally high number of Medicare recipients. Baca said
the sheriff's department and other agencies are working to alert senior citizens
from various communities to the dangers of identity theft.

At least eight phantom clinics were created in Los Angeles, including one at
15904 Strathern St., in Van Nuys, officials said. The clinic was called Endeavor
Diagnostics, Inc., but in reality was an empty office, according to an
indictment filed in U.S. District Court for Central District of California.

Those indicted in the Los Angeles scheme were reimbursed $8 million to fund what
federal officials called an opulent lifestyle.

"If the alleged perpetrators arrested today had the foresight to see this
indictment coming, they would be dismayed to learn that not only are they facing
significant prison terms, but they will also lose the fruits of their crime,"
said Leslie DeMarco, special agent in charge of the IRS's criminal
investigation's Los Angeles field office.

Among those indicted Wednesday are:

Pogos Satamyan, no age given, of Glendale.

Vachagan Dischian, 34, of Van Nuys

Vahe Dischian, 36, Van Nuys

Andranik Satamyan, 20, of Glendale

Haroutyoun Dishchian, 62, of Van Nuys

Grisha Sayadyan, 59, of Glendale.

Allen Sayadyan, 30, of Glendale.

Nicolae Candu, 24, a fugitive.

Vitalina Shcherbyak, 24, a fugitive.

Nikolay Agishev, 24, a fugitive.

Federal officials say some of those named were involved in delivering
counterfeit checks of up to $825,000 for money laundering to informants. Those
indicted also were charged with cashing fraudulent checks at various banks.

Kazarian, the alleged Armenian crime boss from Glendale, was arrested in New
York under an indictment for his links to the Mirzoyan-Terdjanian criminal
enterprise. Federal officials said Davit Mirzoyan and Robert Terdjanian headed
the group, which was based in Los Angeles and New York.

While the alleged scheme involved Armenian nationals, federal officials asked
the public not to judge a whole community by the deeds of those involved in the
crimes.

Glendale, Burbank and Hollywood are home to the largest Armenian-American
communities in the United States.

"I want to make sure we are not quick to brand any community with organized
crime," Bill Lewis, of the FBI Los Angeles bureau, said during a news
conference.

Glendale Police Chief Ronald DePompa said the arrests likely will have a ripple
effect in his city and send a message to those involved in fraud-related
schemes.

"It's a huge issue in Glendale," DePompa said of crimes involving fraud. "It far
exceeds our capability, so we are grateful for several agencies working with
us."

susan.abram@dailynews.com

818-713-3664

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

18 arrested in operation targeting San Gabriel Valley Asian gang

BYLINE: By Bethania Palma Markus, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 468 words


Authorities targeting a San Gabriel Valley-based Asian crime syndicate arrested
18 people Wednesday indicted on drug trafficking and international
marriage-fraud charges.

The three-year investigation - which involved an informant - led to the arrests
of suspected Red Door gang members in Rowland Heights, El Monte, Diamond Bar,
Alhambra, San Gabriel, West Covina, San Dimas, Arcadia, Los Angeles, Huntington
Beach, Culver City and Flushing, New York, according to federal officials.

Authorities are still searching for two defendants named in the 40-page Grand
Jury indictment.

The effort was dubbed "Operation Paint It Black."

All pleaded not guilty Wednesday afternoon.

The Red Door gang has about 50 members, officials said.

"We've certainly taken into custody several members and associates of the gang
and we hope that disrupts their activities, but at this point it's too early to
tell," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Kevin Rosenberg.

Police have been dealing with Red Door-related crimes for more than a decade.
Most notably, police made several arrests in 2001 after shootings and fights
between the Red Door and the Wah Ching, another area Asian gang.

Wednesday's operation involved agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration,
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
L.A. County Sheriff's detectives and officers from the Los Angeles, Arcadia and
Monterey Park police departments.

Authorities seized seven guns, 12,500 ecstasy pills, 2,230 marijuana plants and
a Lamborghini, officials said.

The 16 men and four women are accused of selling and manufacturing marijuana,
methamphetamine and ecstasy, possession and sale of firearms and falsifying
marriages to gain legal residency, according to the indictment.

Crimes took place throughout Southern California, including Los Angeles, San
Bernardino, Riverside, Santa Barbara and Orange counties, according to the
40-page indictment.

The defendants are accused of selling large amounts of ecstasy tablets, trading
drugs for guns, cultivating and selling marijuana and importing firearms for
sale.

Eight defendants are accused of either coordinating or being involved in "sham
marriages" between female citizens and male foreign nationals, according to the
indictment.

Men paid tens of thousands of dollars for a marriage license that would produce
a green card, authorities said.

Some defendants coached others on how to make the marriage appear legitimate by
taking photographs, and how to act during the immigration interview. The women
received $2,500 for participating, according to the indictment.

L.A. County sheriff's Industry Station Lt. Jim Wolak said he thinks the
operation will make neighborhoods safer.

"There will be a lot less guns and drugs on the streets," he said.

bethania.palma@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 2108

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LOS ANGELES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 293 words


Greuel claims concessionaire owes $35,000

City Controller Wendy Greuel on Tuesday accused a concessionaire of failing to
pay nearly $35,000 owed from golf cart rentals at five municipal golf courses.

Greuel said J.H. Kishi under-reported the amount owed from carts rented during
tournaments held from 2007 to 2010.

Kishi officials could not be reached for comment.

WOODLAND HILLS

Missing man sought: The LAPD sought the public's help Tuesday in finding a
26-year-old man who was last heard from on June 1.

Kassaem Saleh is 5 feet 9 inches tall, 150 pounds and of Middle Eastern decent,
with brown hair and brown eyes, officials said. He was last seen near his home
in the 5000 block of Greer Road.

Anyone with information about Saleh was asked to call LAPD Detective Kristin
Merrill 213-996-1800.

LOS ANGELES

Lock car doors, cops say: The Los Angeles Police Department on Tuesday began an
effort to reverse the increase of burglaries and thefts from cars in the San
Fernando Valley.

If people lock their cars and hide their property, that should drastically
reduce the level of such crimes, Deputy Chief Kirk Albanese said.

One effort is the bait program, which uses civilian automobiles with property
worth more than $400 in plain view, which makes breaking and entry grand theft,
Andres said.

Car burglaries increased 6.3 percent and car thefts 1.6 percent in the area
covered by the Valley Bureau over the first six months of the year compared to
the same period last year, while overall crime decreased 3.3 percent, Albanese
said.

PALMDALE

Crown Fire contained: The Crown Fire was declared contained Tuesday after
blackening 14,000 acres and damaging four homes, officials said.

About 100 firefighters remained on the scene in case of flare-ups.

- Staff and Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

City's guns for groceries swap proves a big success

BYLINE: Lianne Kolirin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 300 words


THIS arsenal of weapons could equip a small army. But the guns were handed in by
ordinary members of the public in Los Angeles.

They were surrendered as part of a city "buy back" scheme aimed at getting
weapons off the streets.

Now in its second year, the programme pays people in shopping vouchers to hand
in their weapons, no questions asked.

Residents of Los Angeles queued outside five collection points last weekend to
anonymously hand over their firearms.

Handguns, rifles and shotguns earned their owners a $100 (£67) prepaid cash card
or shopping voucher to spend on groceries. Assault guns were worth $200 (£135)
each.

Overall, the city paid out nearly $200,000 (£135,000) in exchange for almost
2,500 weapons.

It was the city's second annual Gun Buy Back Initiative, an effort aimed at
getting guns off the streets in the hope of cutting the number of murders and
violent crimes.

City leaders have hailed the initiative a big success. Last year, people brought
in about 1,700 firearms, and this year that number increased by almost half.

Charlie Beck, chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, said: "We got
everything. We got guns that are not worth very much, and we got guns that are
worth a lot of money. Even the cheapest gun that's functioning can kill
somebody."

Antonio Villaraigosa, the city's Mayor, said: "This is an issue for all of us
who have to address crime on our streets. That's very, very important, and we
think this is, without question, an important contribution to that effort."

More than 1,200 handguns, 747 rifles, 463 shotguns and 85 assault weapons were
surrendered over the weekend. In Hollywood, a man handed in a grenade. A bomb
squad was called and blew it up. But police later admitted it may have been a
painted model. All the weapons will be melted down within a month.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Officers pile up some of the 2,500 rifles, shotguns, handguns and
assault weapons surrendered in Los Angeles
Picture: ZUMA/REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday

Task force hits tagging crew that left graffiti in Rosemead, El Monte and
Whittier

BYLINE: Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


A yearlong investigation by a multiagency task force resulted Wednesday in the
arrests of 15 tagging crew members who scrawled their "OCP" moniker in Rosemead,
El Monte, Whittier and dozens of other cities, authorities said.

Sheriff's deputies, police officers, probation officials and federal immigration
agents served warrants at 31 locations in Los Angeles and Riverside counties,
arresting members of Out Causing Panic, or OCP, officials said.

Authorities have designated the decade-old group a criminal street gang and
linked it to hundreds of graffiti incidents that have caused "hundreds of
thousands of dollars" in damages, officials said in a statement.

Warrants were served in West Covina, El Monte, Whittier and Pico Rivera, said
sheriff's Lt. Erik Ruble. Authorities served 20 warrants in Los Angeles County
and 11 in Riverside County, he said.

Sheriff's Sgt. Chris Meadows, in a written statement, said OCP mostly engages in
vandalism.

"However, the investigation revealed members of this tagging crew are involved
in assaults, illegal weapons, robberies and drug sales," he said.

Those arrested Wednesday ranged in age from 17 to 30, he said. They were booked
on suspicion of numerous crimes, including felony vandalism, participating in a
criminal street gang, recruiting and soliciting members of a criminal street
gang, possessing narcotics for sale, receiving stolen property, auto theft,
possession of stolen property and immigration violations.

Their names were not immediately available Wednesday, Ruble said.

Four people already behind bars also were charged with new crimes as part of the
investigation, officials said.

Officials believe OCP has more than 200 members who have committed crimes in Los
Angeles, Riverside, San Diego and San Bernardino counties, Ruble said.

Sheriff's officials in Los Angeles and Riverside counties spearheaded the
investigation after investigators detected OCP members traveling frequently
between the two counties.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Let's leave it to the jury; Verdicts, of course, celebrities and cha-chung,
naturally

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, Postmedia News

SECTION: E-TODAY; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 493  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In the broadcast network business, viewers' tastes are reflected in two separate
but unequal types of shows: Those programs that many people watch and can go on
for 15 years or more, and those programs few people watch and that disappear
without a trace.

The makers of Law & Order: Los Angeles, the latest incarnation of a crime
-and-justice TV template that first appeared in 1990 with the original Law &
Order, trust their new series is the former. Either way, it will be up to the
jury -- the viewers at home -- to decide.

The new Law & Order will keep some of the trappings of the old show. The
"cha-chungs," for example.

"You can't do Law & Order without the cha-chungs," newly minted producer Blake
Masters said, referring to the sound effect that separates most scenes in the
show.

The new Law & Order: Los Angeles cast includes Skeet Ulrich and Corey Stoll as
the police detectives who investigate crimes. Alfred Molina, Terrence Howard and
Regina Hall will play the district attorneys who prosecute the offenders.

As with the original Law & Order -- unceremoniously retired in May after a
record-tying 20 seasons -- the new version will tell its story in two parts: the
investigation of a crime, followed by the subsequent court trial.

"I'm not paying Alfred Molina and Terrence Howard to be secondary characters. It
will basically be two acts in two acts: cops and prosecutors," said Law & Order
creator Dick Wolf.

The new setting won't have many of the signature touches of the old series. No
snow, for example. No Central Park, no Upper West Side, no East Village. No
sidewalk vendors, no hotdog stands for gathering and noshing. No Wall Street, No
United Nations.

People in Los Angeles don't walk; they drive. So, there will be fewer street
conversations.

Los Angeles -- specifically, Hollywood -- does have something New York doesn't,
however: celebrities -- so many celebrities, there aren't enough late-night talk
shows to keep track of them all.

Lindsay Lohan, O.J. Simpson, Mad Mel -- you name them; chances are, they've been
in the paparazzi's lens. Los Angeles is a TMZ world, and Law & Order: Los
Angeles plans to revel in it.

"It's part of the L.A. mix," Wolf said. "How can you do a show in L.A. without
celebrity crime? It's not going to be every week, but saying we're not going to
touch celebrity crime would be like saying we're going to be in New York and
never deal with the financial community. It's what this city is most known for."

And, yes, that may include Mel Gibson.

"We had a Mel Gibson episode on Law & Order," Wolf pointed out.

That won't rule Gibson out of his very own Law & Order: Los Angeles episode,
though. There's no such thing as double jeopardy in Law & Order's world.

"We had O.J. Simpson episodes on Law & Order," longtime producer Rene Balcer
explained.

Gibson, though, like O.J. before him, is the gift that keeps on giving.

Cha-chung.

- - -

Series premiere

LAW & ORDER: LOS ANGELES

When and where: Wednesday night at 10 on A, NBC

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: NBC; Law & Order: Los Angeles with (left to  right) Corey Stoll as
Det. Tomas 'TJ' Jarusalski, Skeet Ulrich as  Det. Rex Winters and Alfred Molina
as DDA Ricardo Morales.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2010 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 12, 2010 Tuesday

BRIEF: Suspected Killer of Valley Village Bride-to-Be Returned to Los Angeles

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 235 words


Oct. 12--NORTH HOLLYWOOD -- Police arrested the suspected killer of a Valley
Village bride-to-be who was stabbed to death inside her home on July 24th, just
a few weeks before her wedding day.

34-year-old Omar Armando Loera -- a transient -- was arrested in Mexicali
Tuesday afternoon.

Loera has been wanted in connection with the murder of 34-year-old Cheree
Osmanhodzic ever since.

Her fiance, Adam Culvey, ran into the suspect just moments after the crime
occurred. The suspect fled and even though Culvey chased him, he got away.

When Culvey got back home, the house was on fire. Police say the suspect had
intentionally set the fire in an effort to cover up the crime.

Detectives DNA evidence ties Loera to Osmanhodzic's murder.

Loera -- who goes by the name Arturo -- is a parolee who served 23 months of a
32-month prison sentence for armed robbery.

He now faces charges of murder, burglary, arson and assault with a deadly
weapon.

Prosecutors say they have not yet decided if they will seek the death penalty
against him.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20101012-5LA-BRF-Suspected-Killer-of-Valley-Village-Bride-to-Be-Returned-to-
Los-Angeles-1012-20101012

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            January 22, 2010 Friday

Alleged gang members appear in court for hate crime attack in Duarte

BYLINE: By Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 355 words


Two alleged Latino gang members accused of shooting a black man and trying to
run him over with a car in in Duarte last month appeared in court Friday to face
attempted murder and hate-crime charges, authorities said.

Ali Vasquez, 22, Mario Luevano, 18, and a 17-year-old boy whose name was not
released, are charged with three counts of attempted murder. They also area
accused of shouting racial slurs during the alleged attack, Los Angeles County
sheriff's Sgt. Carlos Lopez said in a written statement.

All three are members of the Duarte Eastside street gang, authorities said.

The two adults appeared in Los Angeles County Superior Court on Friday for an
arraignment, but were ordered to return Feb. 19. They did not enter pleas.

Police said the attack occurred at about 6:30 a.m. Dec. 31 at Highland and
Central avenues in Duarte, officials said.

"Suspects Vasquez, Luevano and a male juvenile shot a male black adult twice in
the upper torso with a shotgun and handgun," according to a Sheriff's Department
statement. "The suspects then attempted to run the victim over with their
vehicle, which was was later determined the suspects had stolen."

The victim is an Altadena man in his late 40s, who was visiting a friend in
Duarte when he was attacked, sheriff's officials said.

The attackers drove past in an allegedly stolen car before getting out to
confront the victim, officials said.

Deputies arrested Luevano Jan. 5 on an unrelated charge of possession of a
controlled substance while armed with a loaded firearm, officials said.

Vasquez and the juvenile were arrested on Jan. 8 and Jan. 20, respectively, as
deputies were carrying out search warrants at their homes.

Vasquez and the juvenile are Duarte residents, sheriff's Lt. Mark Glatt said.
Luevano's residency was not available Friday.

According to sheriff's booking records, Vasquez was being held without bail,
while Luevano was being held in lieu of $2.18 million bail.

The shooting took place only weeks after a judge enacted a gang injunction in
Monrovia against two waring gangs, the Du Roc Crips and Monrovia Nuevo Varrio.

brian.day@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 4586

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 MX (Australia)

                             March 15, 2010 Monday
                             1 - Melbourne Edition

Taking Haim at pill ring

SECTION: GOSSGLAM; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 294 words


DRUGS PROBE

The sudden death of Lost Boys actor Corey Haim has sparked an investigation into
an illegal prescription drug ring in Los Angeles.

Californian Attorney-General Jerry Brown, who is running for California
governor, ordered the probe.

Brown's office said an ongoing investigation into people offering illegal
prescription drugs had found an unauthorised prescription under Haim's name.

``Corey Haim's death is yet another tragedy linked to the growing problem of
prescription drug abuse,'' Brown said.

Eighties teen star Haim, 38, died last week in Los Angeles of an apparent
prescription drug overdose.

But an official cause of death will not be given until the results of toxicology
reports are known, which could take weeks.

Brown said the probe had found organised crime rings ordering prescription drug
pads from vendors using doctors' stolen identities.

The pads are then sold to addicts or to people who fill the prescriptions then
sell the drugs on city streets.

The Los Angeles County Coroner has said four prescription drug bottles with
Haim's name on them were found in his apartment.

The news comes as a celebrity memorabilia company agreed to pay for Haim's
funeral in Toronto tomorrow.

Minnesota-based website Startifacts donated $22,000 to the Haim family to cover
costs such as transportation of the body and the purchase of a headstone, E!
News reports.

Haim's mother, Judy Haim, had appealed to fans for donations to transport her
son's body back to Toronto.

Judy, who was with her son when he fell suddenly ill, told celebrity news show
Access Hollywood that the coroner told her Haim had an enlarged heart and his
lungs were filled with water, leading to pulmonary congestion.

Haim had a long history of drug abuse going back to his days as a teen star.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEL


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

Watson in custody on US return

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 168  words


ALABAMA prosecutors will allege Gabe Watson murdered his wife on their
Queensland honeymoon to pocket $US200,000 in insurance payouts.

The theory was revealed on Thursday just minutes after Watson walked off a
Qantas flight from Melbourne and into the waiting handcuffs of US authorities at
Los Angeles international airport.

Watson is locked up in a cell at the Los Angeles Police Department's 77th Street
complex in south central Los Angeles, an area known for murders by violent
gangs, including the Bloods, Crips and Mexican Mafia.

The 33-year-old is likely to spend four to seven days in the lockup before a Los
Angeles judge decides whether he will be extradited.

Shortly after Watson's arrest at the airport, Alabama Attorney-General Troy King
announced a grand jury in Birmingham, Alabama last month charged Watson with two
murder counts: capital murder in the course of kidnapping; and capital murder
for pecuniary gain. The grand jury's decision had to be kept secret until
Watson's arrest. -AAP

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

AREA CITIES AMONG SAFEST;
REPORT: THOUSAND OAKS, SANTA CLARITA, GLENDALE HIGH ON LIST, L.A. ISN'T.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 807 words


Thousand Oaks and Santa Clarita slipped several spots in an annual ranking of
the nation's safest cities, but the two still have a lot less crime than most of
the country, according to a report released Monday.

Boosting their safety rankings significantly in the study by CQ Press were
Glendale, shooting up to 34th place from 45th last year, and Simi Valley, which
rocketed to 16th from 31st.

``Our City Council has always placed a priority on maintaining a safe city in
providing the Police Department the tools they need to keep this community
safe,'' said Simi Valley City Manager Mike Sedell. ``Once again, these numbers
bear that out.''

The study examined 2009 population figures and crime data compiled by the FBI.

Los Angeles was ranked 243rd among all cities, behind the Antelope Valley
communities of Lancaster at 237th, and Palmdale at 201st. All three cities had
crime rates above the national average.

L.A., which has 3.84 million residents, saw 24,070 violent crimes, including 312
murders, 903 rapes and 12,217 robberies in 2009, according to the FBI. Still,
Los Angeles officials say crime is at its lowest level in decades.

The Los Angeles Police Department has reported continuing drops in crime, with
Part 1 ? the most serious and violent ? crimes down 7.1 percent. Homicides are
on track to fall under 300 for 2010, the lowest level since 1967.

Simi Valley, with a population of 121,538, saw 155 violent crimes, including two
murders, 10 rapes and 51 robberies in 2009, according to FBI statistics.

The annual rankings include 400 cities with populations of at least 75,000, and
gave even weight to six crime categories ? murder, rape, robbery, aggravated
assault, burglary and motor vehicle theft.

Santa Clarita fell 15 spots from last year down to 67th, but is still the safest
city in Los Angeles County, according to the study. While city officials
acknowledged that property crimes have been on the rise, gang and juvenile crime
have been falling. Major crime has dropped nearly 1 percent within the city of
about 171,000, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

``This has been a good year in Santa Clarita in terms of the crime rate,'' said
city spokeswoman Gail Ortiz. ``We are, across the board, down in all Part 1 ?
serious crimes ? and that is a very good statistic for us.''

There were 427 violent incidents including five murders, 20 rapes and 129
robberies, according to the FBI.

Glendale's population of 197,384 experienced 302 violent crimes, including three
murders, five rapes and 126 robberies.

Thousand Oaks placed 18th, down six spots from last year. Burbank came in at
94th. Ventura was at 118th, and at 150th, Oxnard's score was still below the
national average crime rate of 429.4 violent crimes per 100,000 residents,
according to the study.

Colonie, N.Y., topped the list as the nation's safest city for the second year
in a row. Mission Viejo was California's safest city, coming in fourth
nationwide.

St. Louis, in 400th place, was the most dangerous city, with 2,070.1 violent
crimes per 100,000 residents, according to the study. The city edged out Camden,
N.J., which topped last year's list and was the most dangerous city for 2003 and
2004.

Detroit, in 398th place, Flint, Mich., at 397th, and Oakland at 396th, rounded
out the top five cities with the highest crime rates.

Some criminologists and law enforcement officials question the findings, saying
the methodology is unfair because crime levels are affected by a host of factors
such as population density and composition, particularly the concentration of
youth.

Other variables include climate, economic conditions, strength of local law
enforcement agencies, cultural factors and education levels.

Erica Van Ross, spokeswoman for the St. Louis Police Department, called the
rankings irresponsible.

``Crime is based on a variety of factors. It's based on geography, it's based on
poverty, it's based on the economy,'' Van Ross told The Associated Press.

``That is not to say that urban cities don't have challenges, because we do,''
Van Ross said. ``But it's that it's irresponsible to use the data in this way.''

Accordingly, Greg Scarbro, unit chief of the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting
Program, said the FBI also discourages using the data for these types of
rankings.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

cj.lin@dailynews.com

818-713-3778

Community safety rankings

Here is how local cities rank nationally for community safety. Lower crime
cities are at or below the national crime average. Higher crime cities recorded
above-average crime.

16.Simi Valley - Lower crime

18.Thousand Oaks - Lower crime

34.Glendale - Lower crime

67.Santa Clarita - Lower crime

94.Burbank - Lower crime

118.Ventura - Lower crime

150.Oxnard - Lower crime

201.Palmdale - Higher crime

237.Lancaster - Higher crime

243.Los Angeles - Higher crime

Source: CQ Press

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: box
 Box: Community safety rankings (see text)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday

Computertheftprobewidens

BYLINE: By SALVADOR HERNANDEZ, THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A

LENGTH: 234 words



HIGHLIGHT: Car burglaries of Apple customers have been reported in four
counties.


Detectives from Orange County will be meeting with those from Ventura and Los
Angeles counties to share information about what appears to be a theft ring that
targets customers leaving Apple computer stores.

Investigators with the Orange County Sheriff's Department noticed a pattern of
car burglaries during the holiday season targeting people who had purchased
computers and other expensive items at a Mission Viejo Apple store. But
authorities said the crimes had been going on much longer and expanded the
investigation to three counties.

On Friday, authorities said burglaries were also reported in San Bernardino
County by customers who had bought merchandise at the Victoria Gardens Mall.

Three Los Angeles men have been taken into custody, but authorities believe they
may be part of a larger crime ring, said Jim Amormino, spokesman for the Orange
County Sheriff's Department. The three were arrested Dec. 29 in a sting
operation in Mission Viejo. Authorities said the three men followed an
undercover deputy as he purchased a printer and computer and later broke into
his car.

Members of the Manhattan Beach, Costa Mesa and Irvine police departments, as
well as the Ventura and Orange County sheriff's departments, are expected to
meet in the next few days to share information, Amormino said. Authorities are
also notifying law enforcement agencies in Riverside, San Bernardino and San
Diego counties.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Daily Variety

                            March 11, 2010 Thursday

CRIME TAKES TIME ON NEWS

BYLINE: MICHAEL SCHNEIDER

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 277 words


Bleeding's still leading the local TV newscasts.

According to a new study from USC Annenberg School for Communication and
Journalism, an average half-hour of Los Angeles local newscasts contains just 22
seconds of local government coverage.

That includes stories about budgets, law enforcement, education, new ordinances,
voting procedures, city and government actions and more, the study said.
Coverage of local business and the economy, meanwhile, averaged just 29 seconds.

Carried out by the school's Norman Lear Center, and sponsored by the Los Angeles
Civic Alliance, researchers looked at all local news programs over the course of
14 days in August and September. The group also looked at the Los Angeles Times
over that same two-week period.

The study found that crime stories averaged two minutes, 50 seconds in a
newscast, while sports and weather took up 3:36. Human-interest stories and
other "miscellaneous fluff" made up 2:26 of a newscast.

Even teasers for what's coming next took up two minutes and 10 seconds.

"All the L.A. TV stations tell the FCC that they're serving the public interest;
these numbers decode what they actually mean by that," said Lear Center director
Martin Kaplan.

Station by station, the study found that KNBC and KCBS spent the least amount on
crime, while KCOP (which is produced by sister KTTV) carried the most.

KTTV broadcast the most entertainment news and the most human-interest stories;
KCAL carried the least entertainment fare. KCAL ran the most news about local
government, economy and business.

As for the L.A. Times, the paper devoted 10% of its front-page space to local
government and 6% to L.A. business and economy.


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Woman in Dressing Room Attacked by 'Mall Peeper'

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 305 words


Sept. 30--LAKEWOOD -- A woman in a dressing room at The Gap was attacked by a
peeper armed with a camera phone.

Police say the woman was trying on clothes at the Lakewood Center Mall when she
saw a hand reach underneath her dressing room door and point a camera phone at
her.

The quick thinking woman grabbed the camera cellphone and took it away from the
suspect.

The suspect yelled through the door, demanding the victim give back the phone,
but the victim refused and began screaming for help.

The suspect made several attempts to break open the dressing room door, but was
unsuccessful and crawled underneath the door into the dressing room with the
victim.

Still screaming, the woman struggled with the suspect for control of the
cellphone.

The suspect gained control of the cellphone and began to crawl out of the
dressing room door with it as the woman continued to scream.

The suspect eventually broke free and escaped underneath the dressing room door.

But by the time anyone in the store responded to the victim's repeated screams
for help, the man had left the store with the cellphone.

Anyone with information about this crime or the suspect is encouraged to contact
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Lakewood Station at 562-623-3500.

If you prefer to provide information ANONYMOUSLY, you may call "Crime Stoppers"
by dialing 800-222-TIPS(8477), texting the letters TIPLA plus your tip to CRIMES
(274637), or using the website

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100930-5LA-Woman-in-Dressing-Room-Attacked-by-Mall-Peeper-0930-20100930

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday

Hearing delayed for teen girl accused of killing grandparent in Rosemead

BYLINE: By Brian Day, Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 292 words


ROSEMEAD - Arraignment has been postponed for a 14-year-old girl accused of
stabbing her grandparents to death along with her 21-year-old boyfriend,
authorities said.

Sophia Cristo of Rosemead, who is being charged as an adult with two counts of
murder, is due to appear Sept. 2 in Los Angeles County Superior Court to be
arraigned, Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office spokeswoman Sandi
Gibbons said.

Also charged in the case is 21-year-old Rodolfo Lopez, a resident of the San
Gabriel Valley.

Cristo appeared in Los Angeles Superior Court Monday but did not enter a plea,
Gibbons said.

Cristo and Lopez are accused of fatally stabbing Cristo's grandparents,
71-year-old Jack Bezner and 64-year-old Susan Bezner, Aug. 9 as they laid in
their bed in their home in the 4200 block of Arica Avenue in Rosemead,
investigators said.-

The granddaughter and her boyfriend were arrested two days after the slaying
after they were found driving the Bezners' SUV in El Paso County, Texas.

Officials are working to have Lopez extradited back to California, which may
take weeks.

In addition to two counts of murder, Cristo and Lopez are both accused of the
special allegations of multiple murder, using a knife in the crime and causing
great bodily injury, District Attorney's officials said in a written statement.

Both Jack and Susan Bezner died of "multiple sharp force injuries," Los Angeles
County Department of Coroner's Chief of Operations Craig Harvey said.

Because of her age, Gibbons said, Cristo is not eligible for the death penalty.
The maximum penalty she could face, if convicted as charged, is life in prison
without the possibility of parole.

Prosecutors have not yet decided whether they will seek the death penalty
against Lopez, officials added.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

INVESTING IN EARLY EDUCATION IS KEY TO CRIME PREVENTION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 707 words


RECENT statistics indicating that crime in Los Angeles has dropped to the lowest
level in more than 40 years is most encouraging. Above all, it's a testament to
the joint efforts of our political leaders and law enforcement agencies working
together to improve our quality of life.

However, we cannot rest on our laurels, but must continue to pursue strategies
that will ensure that crime in our communities will continue to decline.

There are obviously numerous methods that can be employed to deter criminal
activity. One of these might surprise you, and that is quality early childhood
education.

Research shows that children who receive a quality early childhood education are
less likely to turn to crime later in life. That is an outcome that has major
implications for our communities, as public safety routinely ranks among the top
priorities listed by the public and elected officials.

The question then becomes, should we invest resources to ensure access to
effective and affordable early education programs, especially for children most
at risk for school failure and future criminal activity?

The answer is yes, if we wish to produce future generations of productive
citizens who are disinclined to get in trouble with the law. We simply cannot
afford not to invest in early childhood education because the evidence is clear:
early education - such as preschool - helps reduce crime.

According to an independent survey by Fight Crime: Invest in Kids California, an
anti-crime organization, an overwhelming 71 percent of the nation's law
enforcement leaders chose the provision of more after-school and educational
child care programs - such as preschools - as the most effective strategy for
reducing youth violence and crime.

Furthermore, consider Michigan's High/Scope Perry Preschool Program, which
served 3- and 4-year-olds from low-income families. Children randomly assigned
to a control group that did not attend preschool were five times more likely to
have become chronic lawbreakers by age 27 than those assigned to attend the
preschool program.

Today, there are only about 70,000 licensed preschool spaces available for
4-year-olds in Los Angeles County, meaning about half of children are left out.
In many neighborhoods, the problem is much worse.

Publicly-funded programs like State Preschool and Head Start are available to
some, but only the poorest families qualify, and spaces are scarce. At any given
time, tens of thousands of children languish on a waiting list for spaces in
publicly-funded programs. Private preschools often cost too much for working-
and middle-class families, even when chosen from the long waiting lists for
those programs.

That is why we believe that if California intends to continue to reduce crime,
additional state and federal money should be found so that all children can have
access to quality early childhood education programs.

Los Angeles Universal Preschool, a nonprofit organization funded by First 5 LA,
is doing its part, currently making it possible for about 10,000 children to
attend quality preschool at affiliated sites in Los Angeles County at little or
no cost to their families. But more needs to be done.

According to the Rand Corp., for every dollar we invest in quality preschool,
the public saves $2.62 in crime prevention, special education needs and other
social costs. Other prominent studies show an even greater rate-of-return to our
society.

The message is clear. Quality preschool programs are a wise public investment,
and one of our most effective weapons against crime. In fact, it costs about
$49,000 a year to incarcerate a young person. That would cover the annual
enrollment of eight to 10 children in a quality preschool. Despite that, the
number of children enrolled in California preschools remains well below the
national average.

There's little doubt that making quality preschool programs available to more
children is crucial to an effective, balanced crime-prevention strategy.
Continuing failure to ensure that all of California's children have access to
such programs puts every California family at greater risk of crime and
violence.

That is why we urge policymakers across California to place increased access to
quality preschool high on their agenda.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Lee Baca is the sheriff of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.
Gary Mangiofico is the CEO of Los Angeles Universal Preschool.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                Final C Edition

Lorenzo Wright mourned

BYLINE: News Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. A39

LENGTH: 374  words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, PA


A body riddled with bullets was found in southeast Memphis in a thickly wooded
area near FedEx's world headquarters.

It was just another sad ending in a city that has become notorious for its gang
problems and ever-increasing homicide rate. But Lorenzen Wright was the last
person who should have been caught up in the underbelly of Memphis.

Wright spent 13 years in the NBA after being selected seventh overall by the Los
Angeles Clippers in the 1996 draft.

Raised near Oxford, Miss., the River City would become a constant in Wright's
short life. Now, all that's left of Wright's legacy is for police to figure out
what happened to him in the early morning hours of July 19.

The 34-year-old Wright was last seen alive on July 18 and was reported missing
by his family four days later. A 911 call was received from Wright's cellphone
at 1 a.m. on the 19th and the caller, presumably Wright, was speaking with the
dispatcher when several gun shots rang out.

According to 730 Fox Sports in Memphis, Wright was shot at least a dozen times
and possibly as many as 18 times.

Friend Stan McKinley said. "You don't do a dog like this. It's just a really sad
day for the city as a whole."

Pitino kept secret

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Rick Pitino, worried that his wife and kids would find out he
had a one-night stand with a woman he met in a bar, acknowledged Thursday that
he didn't immediately tell police about demands for cars, cash and housing in
order to keep the tryst secret.

The Louisville basketball coach told jurors he kept quiet for nearly two months,
hoping he could "contain" the damaging information.

Intimate details emerged over the past two days as Pitino, 57, testified against
the woman, Karen Cunagin Sypher, at her federal extortion trial. Pitino had to
pause, look down and gather himself Thursday as he told jurors the hardest part
of the case: Telling his family about the 2003 affair after he reported the
alleged extortion demands to the FBI in April 2009.

Pitino and defence attorney James Earhart frequently cut each other off during
Thursday's questioning, and the tension escalated as Earhart pushed Pitino to
address the rape allegations.

The coach interrupted, saying he was "here to give the truth." Earhart retorted,
"I bet you are."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2010 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

KTLA SPECIAL REPORT: LA's Crime Fighting Females

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 290 words


Oct. 29--LOS ANGELES -- Being a cop in Los Angeles is a dangerous job dominated
by men.

While the dangers are apparent, many women, such as LAPD officer Heidi
Stoecklein, seek out a career in law enforcement.

Stoecklein -- who is stationed at the Olympic Division -- says "death is a huge
danger, in this, and that's what we have to always keep in mind when we're out
there to keep ourselves safe, our partners safe," but adds, "its a wonderful
rewarding career, and I want twenty more years of this."

CHP Officer Kerri Rivas concurs and says being in the academy is no different
whether you're a male or female. However, once out in the field, there are
challenges females face that their male counterparts don't have to deal with.

For example, Rivas says, "you get those few people that try to give you a lot of
compliments and you're so pretty and here's my card but as a highway patrol
officer you have to be very professional you know you just deny their requests
and say have a good day, here's your ticket."

The LAPD and CHP both have hundreds of female officers on the force.

Recently, the LAPD celebrated 100 years of women in policing.

If you're a woman and interested in being a weapon wielding woman of the law,
the CHP is looking for candidates ages 20-35 years at the time of the written
exam, good moral character and no felony convictions.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101029-5LA-KTLA-SPECIAL-REPORT-LA-s-Crime
-Fighting-Females-1029-20101029

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 26, 2010 Saturday

Los Angeles couple pleads guilty in check fraud scheme

BYLINE: By RACHANEE SRISAVASDI, THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA



HIGHLIGHT: Prosecutors say Tyrone Gray and Tyrica Goff of L.A. defrauded
retailers of about $650,000.


  Two ringleaders of a check fraud scheme pleaded guilty to multiple felonies
Thursday for their part in stealing approximately $650,000 in merchandise from
stores, county prosecutors said.

Tyrone Donte Gray, 33, and Tyrica Jenice Goff, 30 - a Los Angeles couple - were
two of six individuals charged in February in the case.

Prosecutors said the defendants used counterfeit American Express travelers'
checks to defraud stores, including T.J. Maxx and Marshall's, between December
2008 and February 2010.

They would buy items and return them to different stores in the same chain for
cash, prosecutors said.

The crimes were committed throughout several counties including Orange and Los
Angeles, prosecutors said.

On Thursday, Gray was sentenced to two years and eight months in prison, and
Goff is expected to be sentenced to seven years in prison on July 30, according
to the Orange County District Attorney's Office.

The other defendants: Jazmine Williams, 22, Brittany Ellessee Myvett, 18, Niesha
Sherri Johnson, 25 and Nedra Sherii Beard, 41, also have pleaded guilty and
received jail sentences ranging from 60 to 210 days, prosecutors said.



71-834-3773 or rsrisavasdi@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             July 10, 2010 Saturday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Budget cutbacks don't spur crime rise;
BECK: P.D. maintains safety trend despite fewer cops on streets.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 380 words


Crime in Los Angeles continued to decline through the first half of 2010,
despite a poor economy and tightened budgets that reduced the number of officers
on the street, officials said Friday.

Serious crime citywide dropped 6.6 percent through June 30, compared with the
first half of 2009. And while homicides increased from 144 to 150, LAPD Chief
Charlie Beck promised an overall reduction for the entire year.

"We have had eight straight years of crime going down and, by the end of this
year, it will be nine years," Beck said at a City Hall news conference attended
by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and City Council President Eric Garcetti.

Beck said he has lost the equivalent of 300 officers because the city's budget
crisis has limited overtime pay.

Villaraigosa, who has made public safety his top priority in his five years in
office, credited the department's policing strategy for the reduction in crime.

"We are a safer community because of what we have done," Villaraigosa said. "It
is because of the focus we have put in the problem areas. The partnership
schools we run are in the highest-crime areas.

"Look at the city compared to five years ago. Look at downtown now. At the end
of the day, you can finish work and walk to restaurants and feel safe."

Garcetti said the same is true in his district, which is centered in Hollywood.

"We understand the connection between reducing crime and revitalizing our
community," Garcetti said.

Despite reducing the city workforce by 3,500 workers, the Los Angeles Police
Department has been protected from cuts and been able to maintain a sworn force
of 9,963 officers.

Beck said the decision to cut overtime by $70 million was made because the
funding will be easy to restore once the economy improves.

"We can put officers back to work immediately once we get more money and
replenish the overtime," Beck said. "It kills me every day I have to send an
officer home because we don't have the money."

In specific crime areas, Beck reported, homicides had increased 4.4 percent,
rape declined 13.6 percent, robbery declined 8.4 percent and aggravated assault
was down 14.9 percent. Total violent crime was down 11.4 percent and total
property crimes were down 5.3 percent. Gang crimes were down 9.4 percent.

rick.orlov@dailynews.com

213-978-0390

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           September 12, 2010 Sunday

County to open veterans' court

BYLINE: By Melissa Evans, Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 809 words


LOS ANGELES - Soldiers who leave for combat duty as law-abiding citizens
sometimes don't return the same people - a fact officials in the legal system
have begun to recognize.

Mirroring efforts across the country, Los Angeles County will launch a pilot
program Monday establishing a special court for veterans who have committed
nonviolent felonies as a result of the emotional toll of their military service.

"These men and women come back from long deployments with personal and emotional
experiences that are unique," said John Lonergan, a

Torrance deputy district attorney and colonel in the Army reserves who has
advised the project. "We want to make sure they get appropriate treatment."

The veterans court will start with a maximum of 50 cases at the Clara Shortridge
Foltz Criminal Justice Center in downtown Los Angeles. All military personnel
will be eligible, particularly those suffering from post-traumatic stress
disorder, traumatic brain injuries and other mental conditions.

Many of the cases are expected to be a result of drug and alcohol abuse;
veterans often self-medicate to numb the pain of their war experiences, avoiding
the perceived embarrassment of asking for professional help, officials say.

'This is long overdue," said Superior Court Judge Michael Tynan, who will
preside over the veterans court. "Everybody's concentrating on soldiers right
now returning from Afghanistan and Iraq, but I'm not sure that these guys are
getting the kind of care they ought to get."

Tynan currently oversees the county's drug court, also a specialty unit intended
for those whose crimes are primarily a result of addiction. Both courts aim to
secure treatment instead of incarceration for those who commit crimes.

Depending on the nature of their crimes, veterans could be referred to treatment
within the Veterans Affairs system, which operates outpatient and clinical care
facilities in Long Beach, Lancaster and West Los Angeles. Veterans will be
supervised for a set period of time; if they violate conditions of the court,
the severity of penalties will increase.

These types of courts, however, have proven to be extremely successful in other
parts of the country. The first court of this kind was launched in Buffalo,
N.Y., in 2008, and so far none of the veterans who have finished the program
committed new crimes, officials said.

In Buffalo, veterans are paired with mentors and must adhere to strict
requirements, such as structured treatment and regular court appearances.

The experiment has been so successful that roughly two dozen other court
districts in the United States have set up similar programs, including Orange
County.

Federal legislators are also looking to pass legislation that would provide
funding for treatment and court costs.

It is widely known that exposure to combat can have devastating effects on
military personnel. The VA estimates that 131,000 veterans are homeless on any
given night, a situation caused largely by mental illness and substance abuse.

The veterans group estimates that 30 percent of Vietnam War veterans returned
from combat with stress disorders, and anywhere from 11 to 20 percent of Iraq
and Afghanistan war veterans display the same symptoms.

The Veterans Center in Gardena, a resource hub established in the 1970s to help
Vietnam vets, has received more visits from younger combat soldiers returning
from the current wars, said Jason Young, team leader at the center and a former
sergeant in the Air Force.

"When a person feels vulnerable, when they are exposed to death and dying, when
a person's safety has been violated, it's very traumatic to that person
emotionally," said Young, who spent a year in combat during the Vietnam War.

In 1996, Young spearheaded the creation of a free yearlong class for veterans
convicted of domestic violence, offering soldiers a similar alternative to
prison or jail. The class offers a space for veterans to talk about their war
experiences with their peers.

"It's based on a simple idea - veterans, unlike the general population, were
taught directly to be violent," Young said. "If my country is going to teach me
how to be violent, then give me a break if I develop some symptoms as a result
of that."

Neither Young nor Lonergan believes veterans should be given a free pass - but
they do believe their cases should be given special attention.Lonergan noted
that this new court is one of the rare examples of agreement between the
District Attorney's Office, the Public Defender's Office and law enforcement
officials.

"These men and women are pulled away from their families for a year or more,"
Lonergan said. "They are under constant stress, under the microscope, and they
come back and face broken marriages and other difficulties. ... People are
finally recognizing the need to treat these individuals. We don't want to relive
these issues from Vietnam."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Carleton Place

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Report: Getty adviser was concerned that Greek statue was looted from Italy

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 454  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


LOS ANGELES - An adviser to billionaire J. Paul Getty had concerns about whether
an ancient bronze statue destined for Getty's world-famous museum had been
properly removed from Italy, it was reported Thursday.

A 1976 letter from now-deceased Getty adviser Bernard Ashmole, an Oxford
archaeologist, said museum "exploits" to obtain the ancient Greek work
"Victorious Youth" were a "crime." However, the letter cited by the Los Angeles
Times makes no specific accusations.

The Italian government has asked a judge there to order the statue seized.

Maurizio Fiorilli, an attorney representing the Italian government, told The
Associated Press on Thursday that he hadn't seen the letter, but it could be
important to the case.

Fiorilli said he might mention the document in his closing argument Friday in
the east coast city of Pesaro. A verdict is expected by the end of the month.

Getty museum attorney Stephen Clark said the sculpture was purchased in good
faith in 1977 for $4 million.

Recently, Clark told the judge in Italy that he had reviewed museum files and
found no evidence that officials knew the statue was improperly obtained.

"I wouldn't draw the conclusion that this (letter) acknowledges there was some
crime," Clark, the Getty's general counsel, told the Times. "Italy has no legal
foundation for a claim."

Ashmole wrote to then-museum director Stephen Garrett that the statue was
mentioned in a British television show called "The Plunderers."

The museum's "exploits over the bronze statue were also given, but again in such
a way as to minimize the crime," Ashmole wrote.

Garrett told the newspaper he did not recall what "crime" Ashmole was referring
to in the letter.

The museum filed documents several years ago arguing that Italy has no claim to
the piece because it originally was Greek and was found in international waters.

The Getty is one of several museums that in recent years have returned Roman,
Greek and Etruscan artifacts that the Italian government suspected were looted
and smuggled from the country.

In 2007 the Getty, without admitting any wrongdoing, agreed to return 40 ancient
treasures in exchange for the long-term loan of other artifacts.

That didn't include the life-sized bronze "Victorious Youth," also called the
"Athlete of Fano." The Greek masterpiece was sculpted between 300 BC and 100 BC
and later carried away by Roman soldiers, but the boat carrying it apparently
sank.

The artist is unknown but some scholars believe it was Lysippos, Alexander the
Great's personal sculptor.

The statue was found in the nets of Italian fishermen trawling in international
waters in 1964. It allegedly was buried in an Italian cabbage patch and hidden
in a priest's bathtub before it was taken out of Italy.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Spotlight

BYLINE: Canwest News Service

SECTION: A&E; Spotlight; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 356  words


JAIL WILL SAVE ADDICT SON'S LIFE: DOUGLAS

LOS ANGELES / Actor Michael Douglas on Monday called his son's five-year prison
sentence for selling drugs "adequate" and said if he hadn't gone to jail, he
most likely would have died from drug use or even been killed. In April, Cameron
Douglas, 31, pleaded guilty in New York to dealing large amounts of
methamphetamine and cocaine and possessing heroin.

He apologized to his family, including his grandfather, actor Kirk Douglas, and
admitted to a long addiction to heroin.

U.S. CHARGES BASED ON A LIE, POLANSKI SAYS

ZURICH / Film director Roman Polanski has spoken out for the first time against
the U.S. case to extradite him, saying the case was based on a lie. Polanski,
76, is under house arrest in Switzerland awaiting extradition to face sentencing
in Los Angeles for a more than 30-year-old sex crime. A California judge last
month denied a request by his attorneys to sentence him in his absence.

SOAP VETERAN WAGNER DIES AT 91

NEW YORK / Actress Helen Wagner, best known for playing the same role on the
U.S. soap opera As the World Turns for more than half a century, has died, the
show's publicist said.

She was 91.

Texas-born Wagner, who also played several roles on Broadway, died Saturday. No
cause of death was given.

The soap, which has been cancelled by CBS, airs its final episode in
mid-September.

JACKSON'S THRILLER TOPS MOST-INFLUENTIAL LIST

LONDON / Michael Jackson's video for his hit single Thriller has been voted the
most influential in pop music history, according to the results of a poll
released on Monday. The survey, commissioned by MySpace, interviewed more than
1,000 music fans. They made their choice from a long list of 20 videos selected
by music and entertainment critics.

WILDCAT STRIKE SHUTS LA SCALA OPERA

MILAN / A wildcat strike by workers at Italy's La Scala opera house will likely
force the cancellation today of a performance of Verdi's Simon Boccanegra
starring Placido Domingo. A statement from the opera house Monday said unions
had informed management that workers would be holding a meeting to discuss
planned government changes for funding of theatres.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Kevin Winter, Getty Images, File; Helen Wagner in an April 2006 photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business; News; Brief; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

LOS ANGELES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 325 words


Search on for assailants in death of girl

Police on Monday were searching for up to five men who were involved in the
shooting death of a 14-year-old Los Angeles girl as she and her family and
neighbors watched fireworks while standing outside her home.

Detectives with the Los Angeles Police Department's Rampart station said four or
five male suspects approached a group watching fireworks in the 1300 block of
South Toberman Street late Sunday when one of the men fired multiple rounds,
hitting Daisy Garcia in the chest.

Detectives believe the motive for this crime is gang related.

Anyone with information on this crime is encouraged to contact Rampart Homicide
Detectives at (213) 484-3650. Anyone wishing to remain anonymous should call
Crimestoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS (800-222-8477).

GRANADA HILLS

Five hurt in rollover crash: Five people were injured, three critically, in a
single vehicle, rollover crash in Granada Hills, authorities said Monday.

The crash in the 16030 block of W. Devonshire Street was reported at 10:26 p.m.
Sunday near Woodley Avenue, said Los Angeles Fire Department spokesman Erik
Scott.

Five people were taken to area hospitals, three in critical condition, Scott
said.

SYLAMR

Police probe shooting death of motorist: Police detectives from the LAPD's
Foothill station on Monday asked for information on the weekend death of a
22-year-old Pacoima man who was shot while driving a car.

The shooting occurred at 7:50 p.m. Sunday at Foothill Boulevard and Maclay
Avenue in Sylmar. The victim, described as a male Latino, was driven to a local
hospital by friends. He died a short time later from his injuries.

Police said that an unknown suspect fired multiple rounds at the victim while he
was driving northbound on Dronefield Avenue and Corcoran Street. Detectives
believe the crime is gang related.

Anyone with information on this crime is encouraged to contact LAPD Foothill
Detectives at (818) 834-3115.

- Staff and Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday

'Need' for new JSO officers in doubt with crime falling

BYLINE: RONALD L. LITTLEPAGE

SECTION: RONALD L. LITTLEPAGE; Pg. C-7

LENGTH: 514 words


Last year, New York City recorded its fewest murders on record.

The murder rate there dropped to six per 100,000 people, about half of what it
was in Jacksonville in 2009.

Overall, The New York Times reported, major crimes such as murder, rape, robbery
and auto theft were down 11 percent.

Across the country in Los Angeles, murders dropped by 17 percent in the city and
by 25 percent in the county.

Overall, major crimes were down there as well - by 10 percent.

I bring this up to put in perspective the crime figures Sheriff John Rutherford
touted in year-end interviews.

Murders in Jacksonville in 2009 were down about 20 percent, Rutherford said,
other violent crimes by 15 percent and property crimes by 10 percent.

As reasons for the reductions, Rutherford cited having more police officers,
more community involvement and a new top prosecutor, Angela Corey.

Rutherford takes every chance he can to pummel former State Attorney Harry
Shorstein, so it's not surprising that he's pumping up the performance of Corey.

But unless Corey is having a heckuva impact nationwide, what's the explanation
for crime dropping in Florida and across the country?

There are a number of theories:

While you would think crime would go up during a deep recession, criminologists
say that historically that's not the case going back to the Great Depression.

George Kelling, a criminal justice scholar at Rutgers University, told the Los
Angeles Times that one reason might be that because of layoffs, more people are
at home and serving as "guardians" in their neighborhoods.

Michael Hallett, the chairman of the Department of Criminology and Criminal
Justice at the University of North Florida, said this about crime during a bad
economy:

"Domestic violence goes up, but opportunity crimes go down with decreased
circulation of people out at night, decreased money flowing through the markets,
including the illicit drug markets.

"Turf battles are less intense over territory, and there are fewer arrests,
meaning 'snitching' violence decreases as well."

And James Alan Fox, a criminologist at Northeastern University, offered this
suggestion to The Associated Press as to why crime rates are dropping - the
country's aging population.

"As the over-50 population grows, crime goes down," Fox said.

About the drop in auto thefts, which Rutherford attributes to a new law that
makes it difficult to dispose of stolen cars, a police commander offered a
different explanation to the Los Angeles Times for a similar reduction in that
city.

"Vehicles are getting much harder to steal," Andy Smith told the Times. "A few
years back, with all of the old American cars, it just took a screwdriver and
some yanking. Any joy-rider could walk down the street and rip off a car."

None of this is to suggest that the increased community involvement and smarter
policing that Rutherford touts aren't important.

But adding more and more officers to the department, which already eats up
one-third of the city's budget, may not be necessary if there are other reasons
for crime rates falling.

ron.littlepage@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4284

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Florida Times-Union


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              March 1, 2010 Monday

Homicide investigators remain tight-lipped over 17-year-old shot by cop dad

BYLINE: By Thomas Himes Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


Sheriff's officials Monday remained tight-lipped about a domestic dispute that
led a veteran LAPD reserve officer to shoot and kill his 17-year-old son inside
their Monrovia area home.

Los Angeles Police Department Reserve Officer Fernando Macias shot and killed
his son, Brian Macias, Thursday after the teen allegedly attacked him with a
picture frame, according to an LAPD statement.

"During the argument, Brian grabbed a large glass framed picture off a wall and
attacked Macias with the frame. As Brian advanced on Macias, he attempted to
strike him with the framed picture. Macias backed up a flight of stairs and
fired one round at Brian. The round struck Brian in the chest and he fell to the
floor," the LAPD statement said.

Sheriff's homicide investigators are handling the investigation, but officials
would not confirm the statement's narrative of events.

The shooting appeared to be in self-defense, sheriff's officials have said.

"I won't confirm or deny that. It's part of our investigation," sheriff's
homicide Lt. Dave Coleman said.

LAPD officers responded to the Macias home and were granted access to the crime
scene.

"The Los Angeles Police Department's Force Investigation Division (FID) also
responded and assumed responsibility for the administrative investigation,"
according to the LAPD statement.

Coleman said he is not worried LAPD officers contaminated the crime scene.

"Any access they would have had would have been under the supervision of myself
or the investigators," Coleman said. "They didn't arrive until after the scene
was secured."

Fernando Macias is a 12-year veteran of LAPD's reserve force, currently serving
in the Rampart area, according to the statement.

Reserve officers receive a stipend and must work a minimum of 16 hours per
month, LAPD officials said.

Fernando Macias has not been arrested or charged with a crime in the homicide.

Sheriff's Department policy requires the investigation be submitted to the Los
Angeles County District Attorney's Office for review within 90 days, spokesman
Steve Whitmore said.

"What we're trying to do is release the information we can without jeopardizing
the investigation," Whitmore said.

thomas.himes@sgvn.com

626-962-8811, ext. 2477

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Detroit, Los Angeles most stressful U.S. cities

BYLINE: Reuters Life!

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 209  words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Detroit, Los Angeles and Cleveland are the most stressful cities in America,
according to a new study.

"Detroit has a lot of things going against it. It topped nearly all our
standards for our stress test, although it was rarely number one," said
Portfolio.com editor J. James Moss. "Across the board, it was bad."

Riverside in California and St. Louis in Missouri rounded out the top five
stressful cities.

Portfolio.com, a national business and news website for small business
executives, looked at unemployment rates, personal finance data, environmental,
health and living standards and crime rates to compile the ranking of 50 cities.

"Detroit has been plagued with high unemployment, a really distressed housing
market and is burdened with high crime. It doesn't really seem like it has much
hope," Moss explained. He added the list was done using statistical data
analysis, rather than interviews with local residents about their levels of
stress.

"We didn't interview residents. . . . People will always have some civic pride
that could counter statistical figures," he said.

At the other end of the scale, Salt Lake City was ranked as the least stressful
city, thanks to its low crime rates, high health standing and employment, and
its easy commutes.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             April 19, 2010 Monday

Daryl Gates, Los Angeles police chief during 1992 riots;
OBITUARY

BYLINE: BY KEITH SCHNEIDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 567 words

ABSTRACT

Daryl F. Gates, the Los Angeles police chief who was forced to resign in 1992 in
the wake of riots that followed the acquittal of four officers in a highly
publicized police beating, died Friday.

FULL TEXT

Daryl F. Gates, the Los Angeles police chief who was forced to resign in 1992 in
the wake of riots that followed the acquittal of four officers in a highly
publicized police beating, died Friday at his home in Dana Point, California. He
was 83.

In a statement, the Los Angeles Police Department said Mr. Gates had died after
''a short battle with cancer.''

Mr. Gates's aggressive approach to law enforcement was both admired for its
innovation and criticized for the racial unrest it provoked. He began his police
career in 1949 as a Los Angeles patrol officer; it ended when he was forced to
step down in June 1992. The years in between were a raucous era in which Los
Angeles almost doubled its population while becoming overwhelmed by drugs,
gangs, guns and a tide of violent crime.

Mr. Gates responded to that climate by stressing discipline in the ranks of his
8,000-strong department, enlarging the police presence in the streets and
developing new policing tools. He pioneered the use of police helicopters to
fight crime across the city, and he helped develop the Special Weapons and
Tactics unit, or SWAT, which was made up of mobile teams of highly trained
officers.

As Los Angeles grew more dense and diverse, as crime increased and as cultural
mores and racial attitudes shifted in the 1980s, his oversight of the department
came under mounting criticism. Black and Hispanic residents accused the police
of treating them harshly and Mr. Gates of doing little to rein in his officers.

The criticism intensified in March 1991, when Rodney King, a black convicted
robber and parolee, was viciously beaten by white officers after a high-speed
car chase. The beating was videotaped by a bystander and repeatedly broadcast
around the world, provoking widespread revulsion and an intense national debate
about police brutality, race relations, poverty and Mr. Gates's leadership.

In April 1992, four white officers accused of assault in the beating of Mr. King
were acquitted by an all-white jury. The decision set off three days of rioting,
which left 53 people dead and about 2,500 injured.

A commission faulted the police, the mayor and the City Council for poor
planning, poor coordination and poor reaction to the jury's decision. In October
1992, four months after his resignation, Mr. Gates acknowledged that he had made
errors in command but remained unapologetic. ''Clearly that night we should have
gone down there and shot a few people,'' he said.

Gen. Rasim Delic, who commanded the Bosnian Army during much of the catastrophic
ethnic war in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, died Friday at his home in
Sarajevo, Marlise Simons reported.

At the time of his death at 61, General Delic, a Muslim, was awaiting a ruling
on his appeal of a three-year prison sentence handed down by the United Nations
war crimes tribunal in The Hague. In 2008, he was found guilty of failing to
punish cruel treatment of Serbian captives by some of his subordinates, and he
became the most senior Bosnian Muslim commander to be convicted by the tribunal.

He had gained respect from some Western diplomats who knew him as the army chief
from 1993 to 1995, when he also played a role in peace negotiations.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

BRIEF: Vandals Target Grieving Mom in Eagle Rock

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 222 words


Oct. 29--LOS ANGELES, Calif. -- An Eagle Rock woman whose daughter was murdered
more than a decade ago has been targeted by vandals who spray-painted a
threatening message on her garage door.

Anna Del Rio, who works for Crime Stoppers, awoke Thursday to find "AVE 543" and
"187" sprawled across her garage doors along with a profane word.

"187" is the police code for murder.

Del Rio believes she's being targeted by a violent neighborhood gang because of
her work with Crime Stoppers. She thinks the gang members have mistaken her for
a police informant.

Del Rio's 20-year-old daughter was shot and killed in Los Angeles in 1999.

Del Rio says she has channeled her grief by working with Crimestoppers and
helping other victims of violence.

She has placed a picture of her daughter by her garage door as a makeshift
memorial.

Police are investigating the incident.

Del Rio says she refuses to be intimidated by the people who vandalized her
property.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101029-5LA-BRF-Vandals-Target-Grieving-Mom-in-Eagle-Rock-1029-20101029

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      MX Brisbane (Queensland, Australia)

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                                1 - BRIS Edition

Gabe back in jail in LA

SECTION: MX; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 300 words


AIRPORT ARREST

Honeymoon killer Gabe Watson is behind bars after US authorities arrested him at
Los Angeles International Airport.

The arrest came moments after Watson's Qantas flight from Melbourne touched
down.

``Gabe Watson has been served a warrant in Los Angeles,'' said Don Valeska, head
of Alabama's Attorney-General's violent crime division.

``He is in custody.''

After the arrest, Alabama Attorney-General Troy King announced a grand jury in
Birmingham, Alabama, had charged Watson last month with two counts of murder.

The grand jury's decision had to be kept secret until Watson's arrest.

``We are just going to do our job,'' Valeska said of Alabama's plan to prosecute
Watson, where the maximum sentence he faces if convicted will be life in prison.

Watson is charged with one count of capital murder in the course of kidnapping
and one count of capital murder for pecuniary gain. The charges relate to the
death of Watson's wife of 11 days, Tina, 26, during a scuba diving honeymoon at
the Great Barrier Reef in 2003.

Alabama will allege Watson planned to murder Tina before they left for their
honeymoon in Australia, motivated by reaping money from suing his wife's
insurance company.

It is likely Watson will be housed at LA County Jail until a hearing on Monday,
when an extradition application to Alabama will be heard.

Alabama authorities will escort him back to Birmingham, where Watson's lawyers
are expected to apply for bail.

A major legal battle should unfold in Alabama, with Watson's lawyers highly
critical of Alabama's case against the bubble-wrap salesman.

They say Watson has already pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of Tina in
Australia and paid his dues by serving 18 months in a Queensland jail.

Alabama was not happy with what it perceived as Queensland's light 18-month jail
term.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MXB


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Polanski's lawyers appeal

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 290  words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Lawyers for Roman Polanski filed an appeal Thursday demanding the fugitive film
director be sentenced in California for a decades-old sex crime even as he
remains under house arrest in Switzerland.

They said Polanski was entitled under California law to be sentenced without
returning in person to Los Angeles on a charge of having unlawful sex with a
13-year-old girl in 1977.

Polanski, 76, fled California in 1978 and was arrested in September 2009 in
Switzerland. The Oscar-winning director of The Pianist is currently confined to
his home in the ski resort of Gstaad fighting extradition to the United States.

A Los Angeles judge in January rejected Polanski's request to be sentenced in
absentia, and insisted he appear in court.

Polanski's lawyers have been fighting to have the unlawful sex case dropped,
alleging judicial misconduct in the original legal proceedings when the judge
considered sentencing.

Until this newest legal salvo, it was believed those allegations were first
revealed in a 2008 film documentary about Polanski. But Polanski's attorneys
said recent testimony from a key player in 1977 reveals prosecutors knew of the
misconduct from the start and concealed it from the defence.

"Now to hear, through entirely new evidence, that high-level deputy district
attorneys in the summer of 1977 learned of misconduct by the judge in this case
and never told the defence about it, that's inexcusable," Polanski's lawyer,
Douglas Dalton, said in a statement.

Polanski pleaded guilty to unlawful sex with a minor in 1977 but skipped bail
and fled to France before being sentenced, fearing that the judge would renege
on an agreement limiting his punishment to the 42 days he had already spent
behind bars for psychiatric evaluation.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

All 'legal'? Far from it

BYLINE: Ralph R. Reiland

LENGTH: 596 words


Cardinal Roger Mahony had a simple and supportive message for the tens of
thousands of demonstrators in Los Angeles who were protesting against Arizona's
attempt to crack down on illegal immigrants: "Everyone in God's eyes is legal."

I should use that line the next time I get stopped for speeding. "Officer, I'm
totally legal in God's eyes."

I got ticketed twice this year for speeding in exactly the same spot on the way
to D.C. The cop sits a few miles south of Breezewood on I-70 on this nice,
downhill straightaway just a few minutes after you get off the Pennsylvania
Turnpike.

The goofy part, aside from being a slow learner, is that I was heading for
Washington to tell the government crooks to get out of my wallet and they got me
twice, for $270, before I was even halfway there.

Mahony, head of the Los Angeles Roman Catholic archdiocese, the largest
archdiocese in the U.S., offered this explanation about why Arizona's new law on
illegal immigration is wrong: "The tragedy of the law is its totally flawed
reasoning: that immigrants come to our country to rob, plunder and consume
public resources. That is not only false, the premise is nonsense."

On the robbing and plundering part, Heather Mac Donald specifically cited the
connection between immigration policy, illegals and crime in Los Angeles in "The
Illegal-Alien Crime Wave" in the Winter 2004 edition of the Manhattan
Institute's City Journal.

"Some of the most violent criminals at large today are illegal aliens," reported
Mac Donald, a contributing editor at City Journal and a fellow at the Manhattan
Institute. "Yet in cities where the crime these aliens commit is the highest,
the police cannot use the most obvious tool to apprehend them: their immigration
status. In Los Angeles, for example, dozens of members of a ruthless Salvadoran
prison gang have sneaked back into town after having been deported for such
crimes as murder, assault with a deadly weapon and drug trafficking."

The criminals in these gangs, repeatedly going down to and up from El Salvador
to the United States like yo-yos, are the beneficiaries of a
don't-ask-don't-tell immigration policy.

"These police officers know who they are and know that their mere presence in
the country is a felony," explained Mac Donald. "Yet should a cop arrest an
illegal gangbanger for felonious re-entry, it is he who will be treated as a
criminal, for violating the LAPD's rule against enforcing immigration law."

Rooted in ideas like Mahony's "Everyone in God's eyes is legal," policies
establishing "sanctuary" prohibit city employees, including police in Los
Angeles and other cities, from reporting immigration violations to federal
authorities.

The result? "In Los Angeles, 95 percent of all outstanding warrants for homicide
(which total 1,200 to 1,500) target illegal aliens," reported Mac Donald. "Up to
two-thirds of all fugitive felony warrants (17,000) are for illegal aliens."

Additionally, a "confidential California Department of Justice study reported in
1995 that 60 percent of the 20,000-strong 18th Street Gang in Southern
California is illegal," wrote Mac Donald. "The bloody gang collaborates with the
Mexican Mafia, the dominant force in California prisons, on complex
drug-distribution schemes, extortion and drive-by assassinations."

Mac Donald's conclusion: "The immigrant population has grown so large that
public officials are terrified of alienating it, even at the expense of ignoring
the law and tolerating violence."

Or, as Mac Donald more succinctly said it, "Immigrant pandering has trumped
public safety."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday

Gangmember Convicted in 2006 Cheryl Green Murder

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


Sept. 09--LOS ANGELES -- A 22-year-old gang member was convicted Thursday of the
2006 hate crime murder of 14-year-old Cheryl Green in L.A.'s Harbor Gateway
area. Along with a fellow gang member, he also was convicted of murdering a
witness to the racially motivated shooting.

A jury deliberated less than two days before convicting Jonathan Fajardo of
murdering Green on Dec. 15, 2006, and Christopher Ash, 25, less than two weeks
later on Dec. 28, 2006.

The jury also convicted 23-year-old co-defendant Daniel Aguilar of murdering
Ash.

The jury agreed with all the special circumstances in the murders: lying in
wait, gang killing, murder of a witness and, in the case of Fajardo, that the
killing of the teenage girl was racially motivated and multiple murders.

Deputy District Attorney Gretchen A. Ford of the Organized Crime Division is
seeking the death penalty against Fajardo. The same Superior Court jury that
returned today's verdicts will hear testimony in the penalty phase of Fajardo's
trial starting Monday afternoon in the court of trial Judge David S. Wesley.

Aguilar is scheduled for sentencing by Judge Wesley on Sept. 27. Since the
District Attorney's Office decided against seeking the death penalty against
Aguilar, he faces life in prison without the possibility of parole.

Three other gang members have been charged in the case. One of them testified
against Fajardo and Aguilar and is due back in Judge Wesley's court later this
month. The other two defendants have a scheduled pre-trial hearing in November.

To see more of KTLA-TV, go to http://www.ktla.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, KTLA-TV,
Los Angeles Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100909-5LA-Gangmember-Convicted-in-2006-Cheryl-Green-Murder-20100909

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2010


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Carleton Place

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Family says Reagan grandson accidentally tripped alarm at his home before arrest

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 252  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


LOS ANGELES - The grandson of former President Ronald Reagan was arrested
Thursday for investigation of obstructing an officer who responded to his home
after the grandson unknowingly tripped a silent alarm, a family member said.

Cameron Reagan, 31, was taken into custody in the Van Nuys area of Los Angeles,
police said. He later posted $10,000 bail and was released, police said.

His father, Michael Reagan, a conservative commentator who used to live in the
house, said his son accidentally hit the alarm.

"It goes directly to the police station," Michael Reagan said. "They surround
the house with police cars because of who we are."

Michael Reagan said his son panicked because he didn't know what was happening.

"There was a lot of misunderstanding at 1 a.m.," he said.

Police Officer April Harding said she didn't know why officers were called to
the home. When they tried to stop Cameron Reagan from leaving, he was
unco-operative and belligerent and was arrested, she said.

In 2001, Cameron Reagan was ordered to a 90-day, live-in drug and anger
management program for marijuana possession while on probation for a car
break-in case.

During court proceedings, attorneys said he had suffered from attention-deficit
disorder since childhood.

They told the court it caused him to drop out of college and left him unable to
hold a job and was responsible for one period when he was destitute and living
on the streets.

Joanne Drake, a spokeswoman for former first lady Nancy Reagan, said the family
would not comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Guelph Mercury (Ontario, Canada)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Family says Reagan grandson accidentally tripped alarm at his home before arrest

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 252  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


LOS ANGELES - The grandson of former President Ronald Reagan was arrested
Thursday for investigation of obstructing an officer who responded to his home
after the grandson unknowingly tripped a silent alarm, a family member said.

Cameron Reagan, 31, was taken into custody in the Van Nuys area of Los Angeles,
police said. He later posted $10,000 bail and was released, police said.

His father, Michael Reagan, a conservative commentator who used to live in the
house, said his son accidentally hit the alarm.

"It goes directly to the police station," Michael Reagan said. "They surround
the house with police cars because of who we are."

Michael Reagan said his son panicked because he didn't know what was happening.

"There was a lot of misunderstanding at 1 a.m.," he said.

Police Officer April Harding said she didn't know why officers were called to
the home. When they tried to stop Cameron Reagan from leaving, he was
unco-operative and belligerent and was arrested, she said.

In 2001, Cameron Reagan was ordered to a 90-day, live-in drug and anger
management program for marijuana possession while on probation for a car
break-in case.

During court proceedings, attorneys said he had suffered from attention-deficit
disorder since childhood.

They told the court it caused him to drop out of college and left him unable to
hold a job and was responsible for one period when he was destitute and living
on the streets.

Joanne Drake, a spokeswoman for former first lady Nancy Reagan, said the family
would not comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday

UPDATE: 18 arrested in sweep of San Gabriel Valley's Red Door gang

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 149 words


Authorities targeting a San Gabriel Valley-based Asian crime syndicate arrested
18 people Wednesday morning indicted on drug trafficking and international
marriage fraud charges.

The three-year investigation used surveillance and wire taps to apprehend
suspected Red Door gang members in Rowland Heights, El Monte, Diamond Bar,
Alhambra, San Gabriel, West Covina, San Dimas, Arcadia, Los Angeles, Huntington
Beach, Culver City and Flushing, New York, according to federal officials.

"We've certainly taken into custody several members and associates of the gang
and we hope that disrupts their activities, but at this point it's too early to
tell," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Kevin Rosenburg.

The men and women are accused of selling and manufacturing marijuana,
methamphetamine and ecstasy, possession and sale of guns and falsifying
marriages to gain legal residency, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: The Ice House Comedy Club


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Ice House Comedy Club
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Scandia Amusement Park


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scandia Amusement Park
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Jang Woo Nam


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jang Woo Nam
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Otis Elevator


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Otis Elevator
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: 20th Century Fox


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  20th Century Fox
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Nancy Jeannette Reyes-Rubi


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nancy Jeannette Reyes-Rubi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Universal City Studios


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Universal City Studios
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Anonymous


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anonymous
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Justin Vineyards


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justin Vineyards
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Alondra Hot Wings Restaurant and Grill


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alondra Hot Wings Restaurant and Grill
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Mastro's Steakhouse


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mastro's Steakhouse
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Cristin M. Zeisler


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cristin M. Zeisler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Caught in the Moment Photography


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Caught in the Moment Photography
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: The California Endowment


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The California Endowment
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: The Ritz-Carlton, Laguna Niguel


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Ritz-Carlton, Laguna Niguel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: The Grove of Anaheim


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Grove of Anaheim
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Cara Maggioni


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cara Maggioni
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Ristorante da Vinci


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ristorante da Vinci
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Duke's Malibu


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Duke's Malibu
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Old Ranch Country Club


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Old Ranch Country Club
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
          DONOR: Jacoby and Meyers Law Offices of Southern California,
                                      P.C.


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jacoby and Meyers Law Offices of Southern California, P.C.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Rancho Cucamonga Quakes Baseball


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rancho Cucamonga Quakes Baseball
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Golf 'N Stuff


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Golf 'N Stuff
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Octopus Japanese Restaurant


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Octopus Japanese Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Ocean Institute, Dana Point


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ocean Institute, Dana Point
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Jack De Palo, Primary Freight


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jack De Palo, Primary Freight
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Blecher and Collins, P.C.


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Blecher and Collins, P.C.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Jaffe and Clemens


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jaffe and Clemens
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Pahrump Valley Winery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pahrump Valley Winery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
          DONOR: Jacoby and Meyers Law Offices of Southern California,
                                      P.C.


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jacoby and Meyers Law Offices of Southern California, P.C.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Epson America


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Epson America
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Pacific Bakery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pacific Bakery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                DONOR: Bettinger Law Group/Clearwater Management


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bettinger Law Group/Clearwater Management
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Ensemble Real Estate


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ensemble Real Estate
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Levine and Unger


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Levine and Unger
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                DONOR: Clare Dellemann, Edward Jones Investments


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Clare Dellemann, Edward Jones Investments
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Fast Process Glass and Mirror


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fast Process Glass and Mirror
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Norm Wilson and Sons


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Norm Wilson and Sons
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Ellis, Carstarphen, Dougherty and Griggs PC


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellis, Carstarphen, Dougherty and Griggs PC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Museum of Tolerance


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Museum of Tolerance
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Cottonwood Canyon Vineyard and Winery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cottonwood Canyon Vineyard and Winery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Leanna Einbinder


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Leanna Einbinder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Long Beach Chapter


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Chapter
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Shin Hyung Lee


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Shin Hyung Lee
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Congregational Ale House


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Congregational Ale House
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Hilton Hotel Long Beach


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hilton Hotel Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Hof's Hut


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hof's Hut
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Elisa L. Paster


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elisa L. Paster
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Alban-Wertheimer Medical Group


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alban-Wertheimer Medical Group
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: El Cholo Mexican Caf\xE9


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  El Cholo Mexican Caf\xE9
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Cerritos Center for the Performing Arts


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cerritos Center for the Performing Arts
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Miracle Springs Resort and Spa


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Miracle Springs Resort and Spa
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Mission Wines


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mission Wines
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Survivors Event


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Survivors Event
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: McKenna's on the Bay


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  McKenna's on the Bay
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: C'est La Vie Boutique


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  C'est La Vie Boutique
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Anonymous Donors-Un Torture


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anonymous Donors-Un Torture
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Midnight Cellars Winery and Vineyard


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Midnight Cellars Winery and Vineyard
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Anonymous


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anonymous
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Rustic Canyon Partners


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rustic Canyon Partners
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Keobunta Bunyong


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Keobunta Bunyong
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Hotel Maya


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hotel Maya
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Santa Barbara Zoo


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Santa Barbara Zoo
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Luc Moritz


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Luc Moritz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Santa Maria Barbeque


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Santa Maria Barbeque
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Manizheh Yomtoubian


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Manizheh Yomtoubian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Dee Ann Hayashi


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dee Ann Hayashi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Om Basics


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Om Basics
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: 1st Enterprise Bank


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  1st Enterprise Bank
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                DONOR: Children's Discovery Museum of the Desert


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Children's Discovery Museum of the Desert
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: modica's deli


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  modica's deli
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                  DONOR: Jams


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jams
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Bianca Cecilia Alcala


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bianca Cecilia Alcala
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: JMDesign, Prime8 Interactive


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  JMDesign, Prime8 Interactive
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Richard Nixon Library


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Nixon Library
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Grand Sierra Resort and Casino, Reno


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grand Sierra Resort and Casino, Reno
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Karin Westmoreland-Berry


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karin Westmoreland-Berry
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Cal Bowl


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cal Bowl
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Heery International


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Heery International
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: R and G Commission


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  R and G Commission
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Abm Janitorial Services


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Abm Janitorial Services
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: World Language Communications


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  World Language Communications
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Los Alamitos Race Course


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Alamitos Race Course
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Zoological Society of San Diego


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Zoological Society of San Diego
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: United Way for Southeastern Michigan


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way for Southeastern Michigan
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Tom and Lyn Cacciatore


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tom and Lyn Cacciatore
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Yard House


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Yard House
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: L'Opera Ristorante


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  L'Opera Ristorante
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: S. Batsheva and R. Aharon Vaknin


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  S. Batsheva and R. Aharon Vaknin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Bachrach and Associates Insurance Services


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bachrach and Associates Insurance Services
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Long Beach Symphony Orchestra


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Symphony Orchestra
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Long Beach State Athletics


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach State Athletics
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Cabrillo Marine Aquarium


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cabrillo Marine Aquarium
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Buono's Authentic Pizzeria


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Buono's Authentic Pizzeria
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: George's Greek Deli


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  George's Greek Deli
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Poolside Pilates


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Poolside Pilates
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Glow and Kreida


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Glow and Kreida
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Pink's Famous Hot Dogs


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pink's Famous Hot Dogs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Theodora Oringher Miller and Richman PC


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Theodora Oringher Miller and Richman PC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Gaucho Grill


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gaucho Grill
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                 DONOR: Brulee


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brulee
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Silvia R. Argueta


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Silvia R. Argueta
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Long Beach Playhouse


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Playhouse
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Long Beach Police Department


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Police Department
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: The Whale and Ale


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Whale and Ale
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: The Westin Long Beach Hotel


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Westin Long Beach Hotel
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Hart Winery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hart Winery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Law Offices of Douglas Otto


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Offices of Douglas Otto
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Saddle Peak Lodge


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Saddle Peak Lodge
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Kelty Co.


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kelty Co.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Law Firm of Kenneth H. Rowen-Steve Chapman


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Firm of Kenneth H. Rowen-Steve Chapman
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Long Beach Petroleum Club


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Petroleum Club
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Long Beach Museum of Art


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Museum of Art
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Bradford Renaissance Portraits


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bradford Renaissance Portraits
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: John Brown, Primary Freight


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John Brown, Primary Freight
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Gotta Have S'more


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gotta Have S'more
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Levine and Unger


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Levine and Unger
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: T.M.K. Management/Village Dental Center


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  T.M.K. Management/Village Dental Center
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Boulevard Buick GMC Cadillac


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Boulevard Buick GMC Cadillac
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Cassandra C. Shivers


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cassandra C. Shivers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
              DONOR: Ucla Department of Intercollegiate Athletics


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ucla Department of Intercollegiate Athletics
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Long Beach Grand Cru


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Grand Cru
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Transamerica


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Transamerica
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Toyota Speedway


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Toyota Speedway
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: The Belmont Athletic Club


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Belmont Athletic Club
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Toshiba Classic


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Toshiba Classic
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Beacon Restaurant


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Beacon Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Robert and Marcelle Frey, Pure


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert and Marcelle Frey, Pure
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Law Offices of Real, Hernandez and Ly, PLC


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Offices of Real, Hernandez and Ly, PLC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Jewish World Watch


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jewish World Watch
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Gazette Newspapers


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gazette Newspapers
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Wells Fargo Community Support Campaign


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wells Fargo Community Support Campaign
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Fox Sports


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fox Sports
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Ticketmaster


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ticketmaster
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Baja Sonora


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Baja Sonora
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: La Mirada Theatre for Performing Arts


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  La Mirada Theatre for Performing Arts
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Stolpman Vineyards


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stolpman Vineyards
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Stila Cosmetics


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stila Cosmetics
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Azusa Greens Country Club


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Azusa Greens Country Club
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Pasadena Museum of History


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pasadena Museum of History
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Ardis Houle


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ardis Houle
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: United Way Capital Region


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way Capital Region
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
              DONOR: Four Season's Resort-Biltmore, Santa Barbara


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Four Season's Resort-Biltmore, Santa Barbara
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Pat and Oscar's


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pat and Oscar's
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: LMC Financial Services


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LMC Financial Services
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Gaylord and Nantis


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gaylord and Nantis
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Angel's Therapeutic Massage


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Angel's Therapeutic Massage
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Universal Protection Security Systems


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Universal Protection Security Systems
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: The Staples Center


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Staples Center
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: The Spot Gourment Catering


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Spot Gourment Catering
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                DONOR: Barry Rosenbaum, Esq. and Eriko Matsumoto


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barry Rosenbaum, Esq. and Eriko Matsumoto
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Koki's Teppan and Sushi


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Koki's Teppan and Sushi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Speed Zone


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Speed Zone
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Spirit Cruises


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Spirit Cruises
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Andazola's Gallery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andazola's Gallery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
              DONOR: Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Andrew Weiss Gallery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew Weiss Gallery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Howarth and Smith


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howarth and Smith
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Bella Doshi, DDS


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bella Doshi, DDS
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Jaffe and Clemens


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jaffe and Clemens
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Paintball USA


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paintball USA
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Kalyra Winery


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kalyra Winery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Bryna Kane, M.D./Laser Skin Care Center


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bryna Kane, M.D./Laser Skin Care Center
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
              DONOR: American Red Cross-Greater Long Beach Chapter


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  American Red Cross-Greater Long Beach Chapter
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Fashionology


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fashionology
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Pala Casino Spa Resort


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pala Casino Spa Resort
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Stephen M. Weiss, M.D., Inc


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stephen M. Weiss, M.D., Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Palm Springs Art Museum


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Palm Springs Art Museum
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Skirball Cultural Center


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Skirball Cultural Center
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Nona Randois


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nona Randois
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
          DONOR: Daniella Ruiz,, Denise Newbarr and Incredible Journey


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Daniella Ruiz,, Denise Newbarr and Incredible Journey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Alegria Cocina Latina


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alegria Cocina Latina
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Port of Long Beach


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Port of Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Incredible Journey Travel


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Incredible Journey Travel
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Program for Torture Victims


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Program for Torture Victims
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: International City Theatre


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  International City Theatre
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Akasha Restaurant


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Akasha Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Festival of the Arts


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Festival of the Arts
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Papalucci's


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Papalucci's
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: TWC Aviation


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TWC Aviation
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Construction Managements Concepts


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Construction Managements Concepts
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Complexions Day Spa


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Complexions Day Spa
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Mountasia Family Fun Center, Santa Clarita


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mountasia Family Fun Center, Santa Clarita
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: The Comedy and Magic Club


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Comedy and Magic Club
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Brandon and Danielle Caldarella


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brandon and Danielle Caldarella
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Rita Tuzon


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rita Tuzon
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Parker's Lighthouse


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Parker's Lighthouse
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Tapert Insurance Agency, Inc (Stone Tapert)


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tapert Insurance Agency, Inc (Stone Tapert)
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Contents Restorers of California


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Contents Restorers of California
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Finbars Italian Kitchen


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Finbars Italian Kitchen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Bemnet Kibreab


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bemnet Kibreab
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Il Poggio


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Il Poggio
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Shutters on the Beach


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Shutters on the Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Rustic Canyon Partners


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rustic Canyon Partners
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Improv Hollywood


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Improv Hollywood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: A Better U Fitness-Naples


                         LAST UPDATED: October 21, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  A Better U Fitness-Naples
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Hyatt Regency, Long Beach


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hyatt Regency, Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: SeaDream Yacht Club


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  SeaDream Yacht Club
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: McNamara Family


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  McNamara Family
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Russel Mirkovich and Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Russel Mirkovich and Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Chris and Yvonne Amantea


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Chris and Yvonne Amantea
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: The Sky Room


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Sky Room
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Susan Soltero


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Soltero
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Jones Day


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jones Day
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Salans, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Salans, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Windes and McClaughry Accountancy Corp.


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Windes and McClaughry Accountancy Corp.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
            DONOR: Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman and Dicker LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman and Dicker LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Henry Ho


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry Ho
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Matrix Document Imaging, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matrix Document Imaging, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Hollywood Park Race Track


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hollywood Park Race Track
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Long Beach Law, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Long Beach Law, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Morrison and Foerster Foundation


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Morrison and Foerster Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Chelsea Chowder House, Queen Mary


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Chelsea Chowder House, Queen Mary
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Kevin Dorse


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin Dorse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Sea Launch Company


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sea Launch Company
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Greene, Broillet and Wheeler, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Greene, Broillet and Wheeler, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Crowell and Moring LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Crowell and Moring LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Elliott Dixon


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elliott Dixon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Keesal Young and Logan


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Keesal Young and Logan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Northrop Grumman Corporation


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Northrop Grumman Corporation
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Capital Group Companies, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Capital Group Companies, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                 DONOR: DirecTV


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  DirecTV
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Sidley Austin LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sidley Austin LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: NBC Universal


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  NBC Universal
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Stolpman Krissman Elber and Silver LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stolpman Krissman Elber and Silver LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Pierry and McAdams LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pierry and McAdams LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Kirkland and Ellis LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kirkland and Ellis LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Buccino and Associates, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Buccino and Associates, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Espace Design, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Espace Design, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Stephen W. Brickley


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stephen W. Brickley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Hunton and Williams LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hunton and Williams LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Jenny Oropeza


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jenny Oropeza
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Susman Godfrey LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susman Godfrey LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Opi Products, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Opi Products, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: American Building Maintenance


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  American Building Maintenance
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Seyfarth Shaw LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seyfarth Shaw LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: O'Melveny and Myers LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  O'Melveny and Myers LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Naples Rib Company


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Naples Rib Company
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Pierry and McAdams, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Pierry and McAdams, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Delightful Crepes Cafe


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Delightful Crepes Cafe
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Munger, Tolles and Olson LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Munger, Tolles and Olson LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Keller Williams


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Keller Williams
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: The Grill at the Westin Long Beach


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Grill at the Westin Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Barbara and Bernard Katzman


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Barbara and Bernard Katzman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Irell and Manella LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Irell and Manella LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Daphne's Greek Caf\xE9


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Daphne's Greek Caf\xE9
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Musical Theatre West


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Musical Theatre West
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Margaret J. Leake


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Margaret J. Leake
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Museum of Photographic Arts, San Diego


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Museum of Photographic Arts, San Diego
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Ensemble Real Estate Services, LLC


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ensemble Real Estate Services, LLC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: English, Munger and Rice


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  English, Munger and Rice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Bingham McCutchen LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bingham McCutchen LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Brown Woods George LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brown Woods George LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Life Is A Cabernet-Peter Holman


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Life Is A Cabernet-Peter Holman
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Law Offices of Martha Hudak


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Offices of Martha Hudak
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Santa Barbara Winery


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Santa Barbara Winery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Santa Anita Park


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Santa Anita Park
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Castle Park, Sherman Oaks


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Castle Park, Sherman Oaks
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Hunton and Williams LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hunton and Williams LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Rob Martinez


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rob Martinez
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Avchen and Shapiro LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avchen and Shapiro LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: O'Melveny and Myers LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  O'Melveny and Myers LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Law Offices of Gary A. Freedman


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Offices of Gary A. Freedman
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Irell and Manella LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Irell and Manella LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                   DONOR: CBS


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  CBS
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: The Clubhouse at Anaheim Hills Golf Course


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Clubhouse at Anaheim Hills Golf Course
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Bantry Holdings, LLC


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bantry Holdings, LLC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Sheppard Mullin Richter and Hampton LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheppard Mullin Richter and Hampton LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: James Cole


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James Cole
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Ann Montgomery


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ann Montgomery
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Greg Montgomery


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Greg Montgomery
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Glaser Weil Fink Jacobs Howard


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Glaser Weil Fink Jacobs Howard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                DONOR: Casa Magna Puerta Vallarta Resort and Spa


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Casa Magna Puerta Vallarta Resort and Spa
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Carpenter Performing Arts Center


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Carpenter Performing Arts Center
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Major League Baseball


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Major League Baseball
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: English, Munger and Rice


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  English, Munger and Rice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Manatt, Phelps and Phillips, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Manatt, Phelps and Phillips, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Edible Arrangements


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edible Arrangements
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Law Office of James E. Hornstein


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Office of James E. Hornstein
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Perkins Coie LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Perkins Coie LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: NBC Universal


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  NBC Universal
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: City National Bank


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  City National Bank
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Montage Beverly Hills


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Montage Beverly Hills
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Gary Rhoades


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gary Rhoades
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: George M. Jones, Esq.


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  George M. Jones, Esq.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Grand Canyon Railway


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grand Canyon Railway
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
             DONOR: Quinn Emanuel Urquehart Oliver and Hedges, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Quinn Emanuel Urquehart Oliver and Hedges, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Callaway Vineyard and Winery


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Callaway Vineyard and Winery
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Proskauer Rose LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Proskauer Rose LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Paul Hastings Llp


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul Hastings Llp
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: O'Melveny and Myers LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  O'Melveny and Myers LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Caf\xE9 Sevilla


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Caf\xE9 Sevilla
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Cakebread Cellars


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cakebread Cellars
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Gladstone's Long Beach


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gladstone's Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: WilmerHale


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  WilmerHale
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: PRP Wine International


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  PRP Wine International
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Glacial Garden Skating Arena


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Glacial Garden Skating Arena
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Hammons and Baldino, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hammons and Baldino, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Camelot Golf Land


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Camelot Golf Land
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Akin Gump Strauss Hauer and Feld LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer and Feld LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Cambria Estate Winery and Vineyards


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cambria Estate Winery and Vineyards
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Ca' Del Sole Restaurant


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ca' Del Sole Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Northrop Grumman Corporation


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Northrop Grumman Corporation
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: McDermott Will and Emery LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  McDermott Will and Emery LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Whole Foods Long Beach


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Whole Foods Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Susan Anderson Wise


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Anderson Wise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Manatt, Phelps and Phillips LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Manatt, Phelps and Phillips LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Kirkland and Ellis LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kirkland and Ellis LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Proskauer Rose LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Proskauer Rose LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Juliana Guerriero, Esq.


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Juliana Guerriero, Esq.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Paul Hastings Llp


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul Hastings Llp
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Bubba Gump Shrimp Co.


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bubba Gump Shrimp Co.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Machtinger and Kinsella LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Machtinger and Kinsella LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Greenberg Glusker Fields Claman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Daniella Ruiz, Apl, Ltd.


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Daniella Ruiz, Apl, Ltd.
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Justin Hall


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justin Hall
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Law Offices of Cloud and Olson


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Law Offices of Cloud and Olson
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Juliana Guerriero


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Juliana Guerriero
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
            DONOR: Hon. Jill Robbins (Ret.) and Robert W. Eisfelder


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Jill Robbins (Ret.) and Robert W. Eisfelder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: H and M Landing, San Diego


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  H and M Landing, San Diego
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Rowley Portraiture


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rowley Portraiture
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Warehouse Restaurant


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Warehouse Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: Universal Studios


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Universal Studios
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Fox Entertainment Group, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fox Entertainment Group, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gibson, Dunn and Crutcher LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Real Mex Restaurants, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Real Mex Restaurants, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Jefferies and Company


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jefferies and Company
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Global Physicians Management, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Global Physicians Management, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Orrick, Herrington and Sutcliffe LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Orrick, Herrington and Sutcliffe LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Gallo Family Vineyards


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gallo Family Vineyards
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: R. Alexander Pilmer


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  R. Alexander Pilmer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Petersen Automotive Museum


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Petersen Automotive Museum
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Nachshin and Weston, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nachshin and Weston, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Nancy Gaede


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nancy Gaede
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Ronald Gillies


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronald Gillies
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Steve Lococo


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Steve Lococo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Trump National Golf Club


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Trump National Golf Club
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Boulder Creek Golf and Country Club


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Boulder Creek Golf and Country Club
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                 DONOR: DirecTV


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  DirecTV
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Dickstein Shapiro LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dickstein Shapiro LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: City National Bank


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  City National Bank
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Bingham McCutchen LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bingham McCutchen LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Neil Leifer


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Neil Leifer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Levy Pazanti and Associates


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Levy Pazanti and Associates
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Morrison and Foerster LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Morrison and Foerster LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Gilbert Kelly Crowley and Jennett, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gilbert Kelly Crowley and Jennett, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
            DONOR: Patient Preferred Dermatology Medical Group, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patient Preferred Dermatology Medical Group, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Manhor Patel


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Manhor Patel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Manatt, Phelps and Phillips, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Manatt, Phelps and Phillips, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: La Valencia Hotel, La Jolla


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  La Valencia Hotel, La Jolla
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Babouch Moroccan Restaurant


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Babouch Moroccan Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Landis Shores Oceanfront Inn


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Landis Shores Oceanfront Inn
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Munger, Tolles and Olson LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Munger, Tolles and Olson LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Tides on Pine


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tides on Pine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: The Ahmanson Foundation


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Ahmanson Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Wells Fargo Investments-Cao Tri Tran


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wells Fargo Investments-Cao Tri Tran
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Hogan Lovells Us LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hogan Lovells Us LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Avi Resort and Casino


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avi Resort and Casino
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: La Petit Greek Restaurant


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  La Petit Greek Restaurant
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Flynn Delich and Wise, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Flynn Delich and Wise, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Jones Day


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jones Day
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             480 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Magana, Cathcart and McCarthy


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Magana, Cathcart and McCarthy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Fox Entertainment Group


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fox Entertainment Group
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                  DONOR: KPMG


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  KPMG
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Hon. Michael Vicencia


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Michael Vicencia
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Aquarium of the Pacific-Long Beach


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Aquarium of the Pacific-Long Beach
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Keesal, Young and Logan


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Keesal, Young and Logan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Thomas Whitlaw and Tyler


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas Whitlaw and Tyler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: T-Mobile


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  T-Mobile
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: Yoland Keeney


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Yoland Keeney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: TMK Dental Management Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TMK Dental Management Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Old Faithful Geyser of California


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Old Faithful Geyser of California
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                  DONOR: Cantrell Green Pekich Cruz and McCort


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cantrell Green Pekich Cruz and McCort
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                   DONOR: Executive Fitness and Med Spa, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Executive Fitness and Med Spa, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: American Cinematheque


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  American Cinematheque
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Southwest Airlines


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Southwest Airlines
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: Sony Pictures Studios, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sony Pictures Studios, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Samuelsen Gonzalez Valenuela and Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Samuelsen Gonzalez Valenuela and Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                       DONOR: TDL International Law Firm


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TDL International Law Firm
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Channel Law Group, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Channel Law Group, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                 DONOR: Petillon, Heraide, Loomis and Katz, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Petillon, Heraide, Loomis and Katz, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                     DONOR: Fess Parker Winery and Vineyard


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Fess Parker Winery and Vineyard
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             501 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
            DONOR: Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory and Natsis LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory and Natsis LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             502 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                    DONOR: Lisa Connor and Stephen Wise M.D.


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lisa Connor and Stephen Wise M.D.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             503 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                            DONOR: It's A Grind, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  It's A Grind, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             504 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                               DONOR: Anita Allen


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anita Allen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             505 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Reed Smith LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Reed Smith LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                                DONOR: Rosie Jo


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosie Jo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             507 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                          DONOR: Skateland, Northridge


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Skateland, Northridge
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             508 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Paul Payne Iii, Cpa


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul Payne Iii, Cpa
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             509 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Sir Winston's, Queen Mary


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sir Winston's, Queen Mary
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             510 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
               DONOR: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             511 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                             DONOR: Bryan Cave LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bryan Cave LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             512 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                      DONOR: Munger, Tolles and Olson LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Munger, Tolles and Olson LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             513 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Susman Godfrey LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susman Godfrey LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             514 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                           DONOR: Alston and Bird LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alston and Bird LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             515 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                         DONOR: Sir Speedy-7th and Pine


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sir Speedy-7th and Pine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             516 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
            DONOR: Elvia Delgadillo, Gene Richey and Law Offices of
                                David M. Zeligs


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elvia Delgadillo, Gene Richey and Law Offices of David M. Zeligs
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             517 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                              DONOR: John Fogelman


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John Fogelman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014


                             518 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2013 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                           Charitable Donations Data


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
                        DONOR: Hart, Watters and Carter


                        LAST UPDATED: September 6, 2013
                              DONATION YEAR: 2010

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Capital / Campaign
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://www.lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hart, Watters and Carter
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014
