
                               1 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Groups fear rise in hate crimes;
Trump's inauguration day has some worried about more bullying

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 625 words

ABSTRACT

Story about anticipating hate crimes for inaugeration.

FULL TEXT

Members of a Los Angeles countywide network of organizations said Wednesday they
anticipate an increase in hate crimes on the day of and in the days after
President-elect Donald Trump's upcoming inauguration ceremony.

The concerns were discussed Wednesday in City Terrace Park, where the Network
Against Hate Crime gathered for the second time since forming to discuss ways to
prevent and respond to crimes motivated by race, religion, sexual identity and
other prejudices.

"We know it's not just imagined," said Robin Toma, executive director for the
Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations.

Toma said national statistics show that acts of hate, bigotry, harassment and
bullying increased a month after the Nov. 8 presidential election. He also said
there are reports by members of several communities who feel fearful as a result
of Trump's rhetoric on the campaign trail and his stance on illegal immigration.
Trump supporters have also been victimized, though not in large numbers, Toma
noted.

"These things happen quickly, and we have an opportunity to

minimize the hate," he added.

The gathering was held a day after the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
voted 4-1 to establish an Office of Immigrant Affairs, described as a
centralized location to provide various services for members of immigrant
communities.

The motion was introduced by Supervisors Sheila Kuehl and Hilda Solis just a few
weeks after Los Angeles city and county leaders agreed to create a $10 million
fund to provide legal help to immigrants who face deportation.

"These are exciting times," Solis said Wednesday. "It's a challenging time for
us, but I do want to say we also have to be very vigilant."

But some Trump supporters said Solis and others are using their county positions
to promote fear mongering.

"They are using the County of Los Angeles as a political arm," said Randy
Economy, who is who is part of the Trump for America campaign.

He said county supervisors were elected to protect the public's health, safety
and welfare services.

"Donald Trump is going to be president in nine days," Economy said. "The world
is not falling apart because of this man. This is why he won. People are sick
and tired of government agencies trying to overplay their hand by having press
conferences."

He added that the supervisors should focus on helping the homeless in downtown
Los Angeles.

"Donald Trump didn't create that problem," Economy said. "It's ludicrous for
(supervisors) to push (hate crime) issues."

Hate crimes against African-Americans, Latinos, Jews and transgender women rose
sharply across Los Angeles County in 2015, especially around downtown and Los
Angeles' Westside, according to a Los Angeles County Commission on Human
Relations report released in September. The commission is working on compiling
2016 figures and reports of such crimes in the days after the election. The
2015 report showed that  hate crimes such as vandalism, aggravated assault and
intimidation grew by 24 percent in 2015 compared with the year before. It also
showed half of the 483 crimes reported were racially motivated, with 58 percent
of the attacks targeting African-Americans. Most of those crimes were committed
by Latinos, many of them affiliated with gangs, according to the report. Latinos
also saw more racially motivated attacks on them in 2015.

Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Chief Scott Edson said one hate crime is one
too many. He said the Sheriff's Department, like the Los Angeles Police
Department, wants people to report hate crimes without fear.

"When we talk about hate crimes we're really talking about a cancer," Edson
said. "If we don't attack it, it's going to get worse."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Groups fear rise in hate crimes;
Trump's inauguration day has some worried about more bullying

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 625 words

ABSTRACT

Story about anticipating hate crimes for inaugeration.

FULL TEXT

Members of a Los Angeles countywide network of organizations said Wednesday they
anticipate an increase in hate crimes on the day of and in the days after
President-elect Donald Trump's upcoming inauguration ceremony.

The concerns were discussed Wednesday in City Terrace Park, where the Network
Against Hate Crime gathered for the second time since forming to discuss ways to
prevent and respond to crimes motivated by race, religion, sexual identity and
other prejudices.

"We know it's not just imagined," said Robin Toma, executive director for the
Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations.

Toma said national statistics show that acts of hate, bigotry, harassment and
bullying increased a month after the Nov. 8 presidential election. He also said
there are reports by members of several communities who feel fearful as a result
of Trump's rhetoric on the campaign trail and his stance on illegal immigration.
Trump supporters have also been victimized, though not in large numbers, Toma
noted.

"These things happen quickly, and we have an opportunity to

minimize the hate," he added.

The gathering was held a day after the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
voted 4-1 to establish an Office of Immigrant Affairs, described as a
centralized location to provide various services for members of immigrant
communities.

The motion was introduced by Supervisors Sheila Kuehl and Hilda Solis just a few
weeks after Los Angeles city and county leaders agreed to create a $10 million
fund to provide legal help to immigrants who face deportation.

"These are exciting times," Solis said Wednesday. "It's a challenging time for
us, but I do want to say we also have to be very vigilant."

But some Trump supporters said Solis and others are using their county positions
to promote fear mongering.

"They are using the County of Los Angeles as a political arm," said Randy
Economy, who is who is part of the Trump for America campaign.

He said county supervisors were elected to protect the public's health, safety
and welfare services.

"Donald Trump is going to be president in nine days," Economy said. "The world
is not falling apart because of this man. This is why he won. People are sick
and tired of government agencies trying to overplay their hand by having press
conferences."

He added that the supervisors should focus on helping the homeless in downtown
Los Angeles.

"Donald Trump didn't create that problem," Economy said. "It's ludicrous for
(supervisors) to push (hate crime) issues."

Hate crimes against African-Americans, Latinos, Jews and transgender women rose
sharply across Los Angeles County in 2015, especially around downtown and Los
Angeles' Westside, according to a Los Angeles County Commission on Human
Relations report released in September. The commission is working on compiling
2016 figures and reports of such crimes in the days after the election. The
2015 report showed that  hate crimes such as vandalism, aggravated assault and
intimidation grew by 24 percent in 2015 compared with the year before. It also
showed half of the 483 crimes reported were racially motivated, with 58 percent
of the attacks targeting African-Americans. Most of those crimes were committed
by Latinos, many of them affiliated with gangs, according to the report. Latinos
also saw more racially motivated attacks on them in 2015.

Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Chief Scott Edson said one hate crime is one
too many. He said the Sheriff's Department, like the Los Angeles Police
Department, wants people to report hate crimes without fear.

"When we talk about hate crimes we're really talking about a cancer," Edson
said. "If we don't attack it, it's going to get worse."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Hate crime rise feared as Trump is sworn in;
Countywide network aims to head off acts on and after Jan. 20

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 687 words

ABSTRACT

Story about anticipating hate crimes for inaugeration.

FULL TEXT

Members of a Los Angeles countywide network of organizations said Wednesday they
anticipate an increase in hate crimes on the day of and in the days after
President-elect Donald Trump's upcoming inauguration ceremony.

The concerns were discussed Wednesday in City Terrace Park, where the Network
Against Hate Crime gathered for the second time since forming to discuss ways to
prevent and respond to crimes motivated by race, religion, sexual identity and
other prejudices.

"We know it's not just imagined," said Robin Toma, executive director for the
Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations.

Toma said national statistics show that acts of hate, bigotry, harassment and
bullying increased a month after Nov. 8 presidential election. He also said
there are reports by members of several communities who feel fearful as a result
of Trump's rhetoric on the campaign trail and his stance on illegal immigration.
Trump supporters have also been victimized, though not in large numbers, Toma
noted.

"These things happen quickly, and we have an opportunity to minimize the hate,"
he added.

The gathering was held a day after the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
voted 4-1 to establish an Office of Immigrant Affairs, described as a
centralized location to provide vari

ous services for members of immigrant communities.

The motion was introduced by supervisors Sheila Kuehl and Hilda Solis just a few
weeks after Los Angeles city and county leaders agreed to create a $10 million
fund to provide legal help to immigrants who face deportation.

"These are exciting times," Solis said Wednesday. "It's a challenging time for
us, but I do want to say we also have to be very vigilant."

But some Trump supporters said Solis and others are using their county positions
to promote fear mongering.

"They are using the County of Los Angeles as a political arm," said Randy
Economy, who is who is part of the Trump for America campaign.

He said county supervisors were elected to protect the public's health, safety
and welfare services.

"Donald Trump is going to be resident in nine days," Economy said. "The world is
not falling apart because of this man. This is why he won. People are sick and
tired of government agencies trying to overplay their hand by having press
conferences."

He added that the supervisors should focus on helping the homeless in downtown
Los Angeles.

"Donald Trump didn't create that problem," Economy said. "It's ludicrous for
(supervisors) to push (hate crime) issues."

Hate crimes against African-Americans, Latinos, Jews and transgender women rose
sharply across Los Angeles County in 2015, especially around downtown and Los
Angeles' Westside, according to a Los Angeles County Commission on Human
Relations report released in September. The commission is working on compiling
2016 figures and reports of such crimes in the days after the election. The
2015 report showed that  hate crimes such as vandalism, aggravated assault and
intimidation grew by 24 percent in 2015 compared with the year before. It also
showed half of the 483 crimes reported were racially motivated, with 58 percent
of the attacks targeting African-Americans. Most of those crimes were committed
by Latinos, many of them affiliated with gangs, according to the report. Latinos
also saw more racially motivated attacks on them in 2015.

Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Chief Scott Edson said one hate crime is one
too many. He said the sheriff's department, like the Los Angeles Police
Department, wants people to report hate crimes without fear. He also said, like
the LAPD, no local law enforcement officer will aid in the deportation of
undocumented immigrants nor ask about status.

"When we talk about hate crimes we're really talking about a cancer," Edson
said. "If we don't' attack it, it's going to get worse."

There are 25 sheriff's stations spread out across Los Angeles County and on
average, there is one hate crime per sheriff's station per quarter reported,
Edson added.

"That's pretty good," Edson said. "But does anyone want a piece of cancer?"

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Hate crime rise feared as Trump is sworn in;
Countywide network aims to head off acts on and after Jan. 20

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 687 words

ABSTRACT

Story about anticipating hate crimes for inaugeration.

FULL TEXT

Members of a Los Angeles countywide network of organizations said Wednesday they
anticipate an increase in hate crimes on the day of and in the days after
President-elect Donald Trump's upcoming inauguration ceremony.

The concerns were discussed Wednesday in City Terrace Park, where the Network
Against Hate Crime gathered for the second time since forming to discuss ways to
prevent and respond to crimes motivated by race, religion, sexual identity and
other prejudices.

"We know it's not just imagined," said Robin Toma, executive director for the
Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations.

Toma said national statistics show that acts of hate, bigotry, harassment and
bullying increased a month after Nov. 8 presidential election. He also said
there are reports by members of several communities who feel fearful as a result
of Trump's rhetoric on the campaign trail and his stance on illegal immigration.
Trump supporters have also been victimized, though not in large numbers, Toma
noted.

"These things happen quickly, and we have an opportunity to minimize the hate,"
he added.

The gathering was held a day after the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
voted 4-1 to establish an Office of Immigrant Affairs, described as a
centralized location to provide vari

ous services for members of immigrant communities.

The motion was introduced by supervisors Sheila Kuehl and Hilda Solis just a few
weeks after Los Angeles city and county leaders agreed to create a $10 million
fund to provide legal help to immigrants who face deportation.

"These are exciting times," Solis said Wednesday. "It's a challenging time for
us, but I do want to say we also have to be very vigilant."

But some Trump supporters said Solis and others are using their county positions
to promote fear mongering.

"They are using the County of Los Angeles as a political arm," said Randy
Economy, who is who is part of the Trump for America campaign.

He said county supervisors were elected to protect the public's health, safety
and welfare services.

"Donald Trump is going to be resident in nine days," Economy said. "The world is
not falling apart because of this man. This is why he won. People are sick and
tired of government agencies trying to overplay their hand by having press
conferences."

He added that the supervisors should focus on helping the homeless in downtown
Los Angeles.

"Donald Trump didn't create that problem," Economy said. "It's ludicrous for
(supervisors) to push (hate crime) issues."

Hate crimes against African-Americans, Latinos, Jews and transgender women rose
sharply across Los Angeles County in 2015, especially around downtown and Los
Angeles' Westside, according to a Los Angeles County Commission on Human
Relations report released in September. The commission is working on compiling
2016 figures and reports of such crimes in the days after the election. The
2015 report showed that  hate crimes such as vandalism, aggravated assault and
intimidation grew by 24 percent in 2015 compared with the year before. It also
showed half of the 483 crimes reported were racially motivated, with 58 percent
of the attacks targeting African-Americans. Most of those crimes were committed
by Latinos, many of them affiliated with gangs, according to the report. Latinos
also saw more racially motivated attacks on them in 2015.

Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Chief Scott Edson said one hate crime is one
too many. He said the sheriff's department, like the Los Angeles Police
Department, wants people to report hate crimes without fear. He also said, like
the LAPD, no local law enforcement officer will aid in the deportation of
undocumented immigrants nor ask about status.

"When we talk about hate crimes we're really talking about a cancer," Edson
said. "If we don't' attack it, it's going to get worse."

There are 25 sheriff's stations spread out across Los Angeles County and on
average, there is one hate crime per sheriff's station per quarter reported,
Edson added.

"That's pretty good," Edson said. "But does anyone want a piece of cancer?"

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

L.A. killings this summer fall sharply;
Tally of 59 homicides drops to levels seen in 1966. Police chief praises tactics
for reducing violence.

BYLINE: Kate Mather

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 620 words


Two years ago, a particularly brutal August, the deadliest the city had seen in
years, alarmed Los Angeles police.

Hoping to slow the bloodshed, top officials at the Los Angeles Police Department
retooled their crime-fighting strategies. They sent extra officers to the
neighborhoods hit hardest, looking for guns and focusing on gang-inspired
violence.

This summer, those changes finally paid off, Chief Charlie Beck said Tuesday.

L.A. saw a total of 59 homicides in June, July and August, Beck said -- far
lower than the number of killings typical for the three-month period. Other than
2014, when the city also recorded 59 homicides, it was the fewest killings in a
single summer since 1966.

In recent years, the city's summer homicide tally typically was in the 70s or
80s, according to a review of LAPD data. A decade ago, there were 116 homicides
during the summer. Last year, there were 82.

Beck told reporters that 59 homicides are "far too many." But, he added, "that's
a pretty significant accomplishment for this city to have a summer that was that
safe."

The drop in killings was welcome news for the LAPD, which has been nagged by
crime numbers that began creeping upward in 2014. Though the department worked
steadily to reverse the trend -- most notably by adding more officers to the
elite Metropolitan Division and creating a command center to more quickly
respond to violence in South L.A. -- the numbers were slow to move.

This year, overall serious crime is up about 1.2% compared with the same period
last year. But the city has seen a marked improvement in deadly violence, Beck
said.

The chief pointed to two areas he said were the LAPD's primary focus: the number
of homicides and the number of people shot. Homicides dropped by 9% so far this
year compared with this time in 2016, he said. Shooting victims fell by about
7%.

The summer bloodshed in 2015 was largely fueled by gang violence in South L.A.,
where 50 people were shot, 15 fatally, in the last two weeks of August alone.
LAPD officials met with gang intervention workers, elected officials, clergy and
community members, asking for help.

Those relationships stuck and have contributed to the decrease in violence seen
there today, said Deputy Chief Phil Tingirides, who heads the LAPD's South
Bureau. He credited the community's work, especially by those who have
intervened when gang activity threatens to flare.

That, he said, along with the influx of Metro officers and the use of the LAPD's
command center, have helped drive down the violence from two summers ago.

"I've gotten more sleep at night than I have in a lot of years," Tingirides
said.

Many of the recent homicides have been connected to domestic disputes or people
who knew one another -- "not the typical gang-related homicides that we saw
during that 15-day period of 2015," he said.

The change is evident in the LAPD's 77th Street Division, which typically sees
some of the department's highest numbers of killings and shootings. Homicides so
far this year are flat, but the number of people shot has dropped significantly
compared with the same period in 2016. As of Sept. 2, 134 people had been shot,
20 fewer than in 2016 and about 50 fewer than the year before.

Beck was quick to include gang intervention work and an increased number of
domestic violence response teams with helping drive down violence. But, he
acknowledged, "policing has a lot do to with it."

The chief, however, cautioned the city's Police Commission after sharing the
numbers Tuesday, saying the summer "will be difficult to replicate."

A reminder of that came later in the day, when a shooting in the 9800 block of
South San Pedro Street left one person dead.

--

kate.mather@latimes.com

Twitter: @katemather

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AN INFLUX of Metro officers and strong community relations
helped drive down crime, the LAPD said.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles
Times PHOTO: LAPD DATA show homicides citywide dropped by 9% so far this year
compared with this time in 2016.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mel Melcon Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 9, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Chief denies LAPD faked crime statistics;
Beck lashes out after a captain files a claim accusing the agency of
underreporting.

BYLINE: Kate Mather, Matt Hamilton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words


Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck forcefully denied that his department has
falsified violent crime statistics, dismissing allegations that the LAPD is
misleading the public as "not only untrue, but outrageous."

"They are not only lies, but they are damn lies," Beck said Tuesday of the
allegations.

"If I'm cooking the books, I'm not doing a good job," he said, pointing to a 4%
increase in violent crime this year. In 2016, violent crime increased in Los
Angeles for the third straight year, according to department statistics.

"I am confident that there is no purposeful misclassification," Beck said.
"Believe me, the consequences are way too high."

The fiery rhetoric by Beck came in response to a claim filed a week ago by Capt.
Lillian Carranza, who alleged that aggravated assaults were intentionally
underreported in multiple police divisions across the city.

Carranza, who oversees the Van Nuys station, held a news conference Monday and
accused LAPD leaders of operating a "highly complex and elaborate coverup" to
support a false portrait of public safety in L.A.

Greg Smith, the attorney representing Carranza, said Tuesday that Beck's
comments about his client were defamatory and showed desperation.

"We have absolute proof that the department has and continues to present false
crime statistics to the Department of Justice. The [LAPD's Data] Integrity Unit
has failed to stop the false reports," Smith said in a statement. "Chief Beck's
comments about Capt. Carranza are false, malicious and slanderous."

The police officers union also rebuked Beck.

"Chief Beck doth protest too much," the Los Angeles Police Protective League
said in a statement. "It's time for transparency and honesty to be the
foundation of our department, not cooking the books to fool our elected
officials and the public."

Carranza said in her claim that she began notifying superiors in 2014 about the
underreporting of crime, and once installed at the Van Nuys station in 2015, she
conducted her own analysis of violent crime reports stored in an LAPD database.

Aggravated assaults in 2016 were underreported by about 10% in the Pacific and
Central divisions, according to the claim, which alleges that those cases were
misclassified as less serious offenses.

The allegations followed a 2014 Los Angeles Times investigation that found that
the LAPD misclassified nearly 1,200 violent crimes during a one-year span ending
in September 2013. If recorded correctly, the figures for aggravated assaults in
the period would have been nearly 14% higher, The Times found.

The newspaper also found that from 2005 to fall 2012, the Los Angeles Police
Department misclassified an estimated 14,000 aggravated assaults as minor
offenses, artificially lowering the city's violent crime rate. A 2015 audit by
the LAPD's inspector general estimated that more than 25,000 aggravated assaults
were misclassified from 2008 to 2014.

On Tuesday, Beck pointed to several reforms in recent years, including a series
of internal audits of the LAPD's crime statistics, the training of more than
2,000 detectives to accurately categorize crimes, and the creation of the Data
Integrity Unit -- a small team of detectives and data analysts responsible for
scrutinizing the statistics. Other police agencies, Beck said, view the LAPD as
"zealots" because of the multiple checks to ensure accuracy.

Still, Carranza lodged multiple complaints about data errors and this year was
told by a supervisor that she would not receive a promotion to commander because
she was "meddling into others' business," according to the claim, which was
filed against the city of Los Angeles and seeks damages for lost wages as well
as for emotional distress and unspecified physical injuries.

Beck accused Carranza of being "very litigious" and said she had made previous
complaints that were investigated and presented to the Police Commission, the
department's civilian oversight panel. He said he had promoted Carranza and
insisted that he had not retaliated against her.

"This is not grade school. You don't automatically graduate to fourth grade
around here," Beck said. "Not everybody gets to be a commander."

--

kate.mather@latimes.com

Twitter: @katemather

matt.hamilton@latimes.com

Twitter: @MattHjourno

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHIEF Charlie Beck stands behind his department's crime data,
saying other agencies view LAPD officials as "zealots" about accuracy. The
police officers union, however, suggests the department is "cooking the books."
PHOTOGRAPHER:Irfan Khan Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             July 20, 2017 Thursday

Los Angeles crime puzzle has no easy answer

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 389 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN and TDB

FULL TEXT

Have we reached the point where it's cause for celebration when crime in Los
Angeles rises only 1 percent?

You could get that impression from some of the reactions to the release of crime
statistics for the city for the first half of 2017.

Police Chief Charlie Beck told the Los Angeles Police Commission that overall
crime was "up less than 1 percent" compared with the same six months in 2016. To
most of us the key word there is "up." But Beck focused on what followed.

Of the slight rise, he said: "That's a positive after two years of incremental
increases, so we think we've been making progress on crime in the city of Los
Angeles."

Everyone gets Beck's point. The overall crime uptick for January through June
2017 is an improvement over the overall crime spikes documented in the first
half of 2016 (6.6 percent) and 2015 (12.7 percent).

But some subcategories of crime continued to see significant increases from the
first half of last year to the first half of this year. They include auto thefts
(up 5.4 percent), robberies (up 4 percent) and victims shot (up 4 percent).
Homicides - the Mona Lisa of crime categories, the one everyone wants to see -
were up 2 percent.

And an uptick is not a downtick. A leveling off in crime increases does not mean
L.A.'s streets are getting safer.

There's another way to look at this, though.

If this trend is real, then these statistics mean Los Angeles is not
experiencing a return to the frightening days of a generation ago when violent
crime was rampant here, and whatever malevolent factors caused the crime surges
of the past three years probably is not out of control.

This should cool the jets of interest groups, politicians and others who would
exploit crime increases to push for sharp changes in law-enforcement policies
and City Hall priorities, or to chase scapegoats.

Many issues may be wrapped up with crime, including prison realignment,
sentencing changes, homelessness, medical marijuana, "sanctuary city" policies,
political vitriol and hate crime, and police force allocation. Any or (probably)
all play some role in crime. But none seems to be causing a continued crime
explosion.

L.A. is still a substantially safer place than it was in the 1980s and 1990s.
Police and city officials must keep doing the intricate, dirty work to keep it
so.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             July 20, 2017 Thursday

Los Angeles crime puzzle has no easy answer

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 389 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN and TDB

FULL TEXT

Have we reached the point where it's cause for celebration when crime in Los
Angeles rises only 1 percent?

You could get that impression from some of the reactions to the release of crime
statistics for the city for the first half of 2017.

Police Chief Charlie Beck told the Los Angeles Police Commission that overall
crime was "up less than 1 percent" compared with the same six months in 2016. To
most of us the key word there is "up." But Beck focused on what followed.

Of the slight rise, he said: "That's a positive after two years of incremental
increases, so we think we've been making progress on crime in the city of Los
Angeles."

Everyone gets Beck's point. The overall crime uptick for January through June
2017 is an improvement over the overall crime spikes documented in the first
half of 2016 (6.6 percent) and 2015 (12.7 percent).

But some subcategories of crime continued to see significant increases from the
first half of last year to the first half of this year. They include auto thefts
(up 5.4 percent), robberies (up 4 percent) and victims shot (up 4 percent).
Homicides - the Mona Lisa of crime categories, the one everyone wants to see -
were up 2 percent.

And an uptick is not a downtick. A leveling off in crime increases does not mean
L.A.'s streets are getting safer.

There's another way to look at this, though.

If this trend is real, then these statistics mean Los Angeles is not
experiencing a return to the frightening days of a generation ago when violent
crime was rampant here, and whatever malevolent factors caused the crime surges
of the past three years probably is not out of control.

This should cool the jets of interest groups, politicians and others who would
exploit crime increases to push for sharp changes in law-enforcement policies
and City Hall priorities, or to chase scapegoats.

Many issues may be wrapped up with crime, including prison realignment,
sentencing changes, homelessness, medical marijuana, "sanctuary city" policies,
political vitriol and hate crime, and police force allocation. Any or (probably)
all play some role in crime. But none seems to be causing a continued crime
explosion.

L.A. is still a substantially safer place than it was in the 1980s and 1990s.
Police and city officials must keep doing the intricate, dirty work to keep it
so.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             August 27, 2017 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
L.A. hate crime tally rises in 2017;
LAPD reports 12.6% increase in biased incidents, several violent, report shows.

BYLINE: Richard Winton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 520 words


The number of hate crimes in Los Angeles and other major cities rose in the
first half of 2017 amid more polarized politics and protests, according to new
data.

The Los Angeles Police Department documented a 12.6% increase in hate crimes in
the first half of 2017, 161 compared with 143 in the same period last year. The
information was collected by Cal State San Bernardino's Center for the Study of
Hate and Extremism.

The LAPD on Friday provided The Times with data confirming the increase in the
number of hate crimes.

Violent crimes motivated by hate climbed from 24 to 36 for the first six months
in Los Angeles. Much of the rise in violent crime was driven by a jump in
aggravated assaults -- with an additional 10 motivated attacks through July 31,
according to the data. Los Angeles recorded a 15% increase in 2016, with 230
such crimes, the highest number in the city since 2008.

The LAPD and other agencies across California have been stepping up hate crime
investigations in recent months, setting up task forces and investigating not
only crimes but "hate speech."

The rise in biased incidents has been a source of intense debate across the
country since Donald Trump rose to the front of a crowded GOP field of
presidential candidates last year, and some critics think his ascension to the
presidency has emboldened those who hold anti-Muslim or white supremacist views.

Of the six largest cities in the nation -- New York, L.A., Chicago, Houston,
Philadelphia and Phoenix -- all except Houston saw their number of hate crimes
climb in the first half of 2017, the Cal State San Bernardino numbers show.

New York's number of hate crimes escalated 28.4% through Aug. 20, compared with
the same period in 2016.

The latest reports come in the wake of violent clashes at a white supremacist
rally in Charlottesville, Va. Although two rallies planned by far-right groups
in the Bay Area were canceled Saturday, San Francisco officials had been
concerned that violence could break out between the right-wing and anti-fascist
activists.

Brian Levin, director of Cal State San Bernardino, said such conflicts are
escalating in 2017 across California. His center tracked 13 events with injury,
arrests, property damage or significant aggressive physical disruption of lawful
public gatherings in 2016. By comparison, he said, there have been 14 violent
protests or clashes already this year.

"It appears that bigots have become emboldened in the state, not only to commit
more violence, but to publicly promote white nationalism," Levin said.

In addition hate crimes in 2017 are up in every major California city, while in
Los Angeles in particular, the most violent type of hate crimes are up 50%,
continuing a trend from the prior year.

A recent report from California Atty. Gen. Xavier Becerra found 931 hate
incidents statewide in 2016, an 11.2% increase over 2015.

More than half of those incidents involved bias based on race, ethnicity or
national origin. The second most common incidents were based on sexual
orientation. Race-based hate crimes jumped 21.3%, the report said.

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

Twitter: @lacrimes

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KELSEY MICHELLE, center, joins a pro-diversity rally at the
Venice Beach Boardwalk. L.A. police documented 161 hate crimes in the first half
of 2017.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Robert Gauthier Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             July 1, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Agents shoot, and hope to score clues to crimes;
'Fingerprints' on shell casings can provide evidence

BYLINE: Alene Tchekmedyian

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 311 words


The guns were seized during roughly 125 narcotic investigations throughout Los
Angeles County over the last two years, but authorities still had an important
question about them: How many other crimes were the weapons connected to?

On Friday, federal agents took a key step toward an answer.

Agents test-fired the firearms at the Glendale Police Department's gun range to
catch the shell casings.

The agents plan to analyze and upload information about them to a national
database of ballistic evidence managed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives.

The weapons numbered more than 150 and included semiautomatic pistols, long
rifles and shotguns.

A match to evidence detailed in the database could give investigators a key clue
in an unsolved shooting.

"Each firearm leaves a very distinct marking on the back of a shell casing, it's
like a fingerprint," said Chris Bombardiere, who supervises the ATF Crime Gun
Intelligence Center in Los Angeles.

"Once they start going in we have a 24- to 48-hour turnaround to where we start
linking these firearms to other crimes that occurred where shell casings were
picked up," Bombardiere said.

Nationwide in fiscal year 2015, federal authorities entered into the database
76,534 casings that were recovered from crime scenes and 130,004 casings that
came from test-fires of retrieved weapons. That led investigators to 7,866
matches, according to the ATF.

"The handguns and the long rifles, they tend to be transient between the
criminals. So not one criminal holds on to a gun for very long," said Brian
Rose, a special agent who supervises the Los Angeles Interagency Metropolitan
Police Apprehension Crime Task Force, which seized the guns that were test-fired
on Friday. "So there's a good possibility that one of these guns has been used
in a previous crime."

--

alene.tchekmedyian@latimes.com

Twitter: @AleneTchek

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BRIAN ROSE, a group supervisor with the drug task force L.A.
IMPACT, fills in information on weapons collected from crimes. The fired shell
casings will be analyzed and entered into a national ballistics database.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Myung J. Chun Los Angeles Times PHOTO: ATF SPECIAL AGENT Chris
Bombardiere uses a bucket to catch a shell casing from a fired gun Friday.
Collected casings can help investigators solve crimes.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Myung J.
Chun Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Glendale News-Press (California)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 1, 2017 Saturday

Shell casings could prove key to solving crimes across Los Angeles County

BYLINE: Andy Nguyen, Glendale News-Press, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


July 01--Federal agents and local law-enforcement officers spent the better part
of Friday morning shooting roughly 200 guns, collecting and cataloging every
spent shell casing in the hopes that one of them will lead to a break in an
unsolved criminal case.

Held at the Glendale Police Department's shooting range, the day was a joint
effort between the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, known as
ATF, Glendale Police and the Los Angeles Interagency Metropolitan Police
Apprehension Crime Task Force. Each gun was confiscated in Los Angeles County by
the crime task force, which goes by the acronym L.A. IMPACT, either at crime
scenes or from arrestees.

The seized weapons ranged from simple handguns to rifles and shotguns.

"During the course of many of our investigations, we come across illegal weapons
or weapons that shouldn't be in the possession of the people we detain," L.A.
IMPACT group supervisor Brian Rose said. "When we compile a certain amount of
guns, we like to bring them out and test them."

Rose said not all guns are stockpiled. If a weapon is already suspected of being
used in a specific crime, it's tested immediately, he said.

Testing involves firing off a gun several times and collecting the shell
casings. Rose said each shell has a distinctive marking from the gun it was
fired from, much like a fingerprint.

If a gun is fired in one place during a crime and then used again elsewhere,
police are able to link that specific weapon to the two crimes based on the
markings found on the shell casings left behind.

The shells collected on Friday will be sent to the Verdugo Regional Crime
Laboratory at the Glendale Police Department's headquarters, where a 3-D image
of each one will be scanned, markings and all. The images will then be uploaded
to the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network, known as NIBIN, which
is a database maintained by the ATF that collects similar images of casings
recovered from crime scenes across the United States.

When a shell is entered into the system, it's crosschecked with other casings
that have similar markings.

Chris Bombardiere, a group supervisor with the ATF's Los Angeles field division,
said the database is a way for police departments to better share information
with one another and help establish links to unrelated crimes.

"You might have a suspect in your homicide case or shooting, while I don't have
anything in mine," he said. "[With NIBIN], I now have a lead I didn't before."

With guns recovered across the county, one weapon could theoretically have links
connected with crimes committed in several cities from Torrance to Burbank.
Finding these links is important for the good of the whole county, not just any
one city, according to Glendale Police Sgt. Robert William.

"[This testing] definitely has an impact on unsolved cases in our community,"
William said. "That's what we're doing here, trying to find leads to unsolved
cases."

andy.nguyen@latimes.com

Twitter: @Andy_Truc

___ (c)2017 the Glendale News-Press (Glendale, Calif.) Visit the Glendale
News-Press (Glendale, Calif.) at www.glendalenewspress.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170701-1GL-Shell-casings-could-prove-key-to-solving-crimes-across-
Los-Angeles-County-0701-20170701

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GL


                       Copyright 2017 Glendale News-Press


                              12 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday

Amount of anonymous crime tips increases

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

ABSTRACT

Crime Stoppers can be solution to people who don't want to get involved with law
enforcement, but still offer tips to crimes.

FULL TEXT

Something illegal was going on at the old warehouse on the 2900 block of Ana
Street in Compton.

An anonymous tip to Crime Stoppers last fall later confirmed it. Los Angeles
County Sheriff's investigators from the Compton station found 4,199 marijuana
plants growing in neat rows under dim lighting inside the building as well as
200 pounds of finished product worth $7.5 million. Twelve people were arrested,
all thanks to the nameless tipster.

Such calls, texts and emails to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers have
increased, and those who oversee the local program say they hope the numbers
continue to rise. It's especially important now, when witnesses to nonemergency
crimes don't seem to be calling their local law enforcement agencies as much,
said Natalie Salazar, executive director for the

Los Angeles chapter of  Crime Stoppers.

"We're in a situation when people are very distrustful of law enforcement,"
Salazar said. "We'd like them to call law enforcement, but they don't."

The distrust grew after what happened in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014,
Salazar said. That's when Darren Wilson, a white suburban St. Louis police
officer, fatally shot Michael Brown, an unarmed, black 18-year-old, after a
confrontation. A grand jury later decided not to indict Wilson. The Aug. 9
shooting inflamed tensions in the predominantly black St. Louis suburb of
Ferguson that was patrolled by an overwhelmingly white police force.

Distrust of law enforcement has continued since, and now within the Latino
community. Police say they believe Latinos are afraid the Trump administration
is pressing state and local law enforcement officials to assist U.S. immigration
agents to deport them.

In March, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said at an event in East Los Angeles that
Latinos were reporting fewer crimes committed against them, according to
reporters there. He said reports of sexual assault have dropped 25 percent among
them since the beginning of 2017 compared with the same period last year.

"While there is no direct evidence that the decline is related to concerns
within the Hispanic community regarding immigration, the department believes
deportation fears may be preventing Hispanic members of the community from
reporting when they are victimized," the LAPD said in a statement to news
organizations in March.

But the regional Crime Stoppers tip lines have seen an increase. The number of
tips provided in the first quarter this year doubled from 2015, or 53 percent
more.

What people don't know is that Crime Stoppers offers rewards of up to $1,000 if
an arrest is made, through a code system, Salazar noted.

"What we hope is we don't have to pay people to do the right thing," Salazar
said, but the money is there.

People who witness a nonemergency crime can call the tip line  24 hours a day,
seven days a week at 1-800-222-8477, go to www.lacrimestoppers.org or text a tip
to a mobile app: P3 Tips. Tips should include detailed information about the
suspect, such as his or her address, the vehicle, and the crime. The information
is sent to a third party command center in Texas. All information, except for
the tip itself, is encrypted. The tipster does not give his or her name,
address, or any other information, but is provided with a code number to use to
claim a reward.

Reward amounts are based on the severity of the crime and if an arrest is made.
Unlike rewards offered through city and county law enforcement agencies, Crime
Stoppers rewards are not based on convictions and the tipster does not have to
appear in court. Also, the tipster can't be a victim of a crime.

To find out if an arrest has been made, the anonymous tipster contacts Crime
Stoppers and provides the code number. If an arrest has been made, another code
number will be assigned to claim the reward. The code can be taken to any Nix
neighborhood lending business to redeem for cash.

The nonprofit Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers is funded by private donations
and annual fundraisers. Since it was launched in 2009, there have been 68,360
tips to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers. Those tips have led to 2,325
arrests and more than $30 million in illegal drugs seized in the Los Angeles
area, according to officials. Authorities confiscated 169 weapons.

Since 2009 until April of this year, there were 125 rewards approved totalling
$32,835. Of those, only 10 were claimed resulting in $3,500 in cash.

Crime Stoppers began in Albuquerque in 1976 and has spawned chapters worldwide.
Glendale has had the program since 1994 and the Los Angeles Police Department
since 2008 but the regional effort now includes more than four dozen different
law enforcement agencies in 88 cities across Los Angeles County. The FBI and
U.S. Marshals have joined in as well.

Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. Joe Williams, who oversees the operations unit
at the Compton station, said detectives find the tips helpful.

"The majority of what they receive are narcotic tips," Williams said. "However,
one of our detectives received a tip on a shooting incident and there was an
arrest."

Salazar called Crime Stoppers a solution for those who want to help law
enforcement, without getting involved in the criminal justice system, but who
still want to be good citizens.

"This is a tool for the community," she added.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              July 7, 2017 Friday

Beck: Crime rise has tapered;
Chief's report on midyear stats says violent crime up by about 1% over same time
last year

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com, @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 477 words


Los Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck said Thursday his officers are
"making progress" on beating back a recent uptick in crime, citing the latest
midyear statistics.

Beck told the Los Angeles Police Commission that through June 30, overall crime
is "up less than 1 percent," compared with the same time last year. He noted
this is an improvement over recent crime trends.

"That's a positive after two years of incremental increases, so we think we've
been making progress on crime in the city of Los Angeles," Beck said.

According to the police chief's verbal report, violent crime is up by "about 1
percent," with homicides inching up 2 percent compared with the same six months
last year. Rapes are down nearly 9 percent, robberies are up 4 percent, and
aggravated assaults are "about even," he said.

Beck said gang crime saw a 7 percent drop, but there was a 2.4 percent rise in
gang-related homicides "leading to the minor increase in overall homicides in
the city."

He also said there was an 8 percent drop in shots fired, while the number of
victims shot in

creased 4 percent.

Property crimes were up about 0.7 percent as of the midyear point. The largest
category for these types of crimes is theft, and that's down 5.7 percent, Beck
said. Meanwhile, increases in other categories canceled out this gain.
Burglaries are up 3.2 percent, auto thefts rose 5.4 percent and burglary theft
of vehicles is up 3.5 percent, Beck said.

Some LAPD officials are viewing these figures as signaling a possible turnaround
from recent years. Violent crime has been going up annually for the past three
years, while overall crime was up for the past two years.

But others warned the latest numbers are not quite cause for celebration,
especially coming off a steep rise in violent crime after 2013.

The slower crime rise "after a 69 percent increase in violent crime since 2013,
is nothing to get too excited about," Craig Lally, president of the police
officers union, said in a statement.

He said that crime is still on the rise, there are still not enough police
officers, and "with the hot summer months upon us, a season that typically
brings more crime with it, now is not the time for anyone to pat themselves on
the back."

Beck should instead "sharpen his pencil and create a plan to restore safety in
our neighborhoods," Lally said.

Beck also reported that the department is recovering more guns than before, with
the number of guns "recovered" up 8.6 percent over last year, and up by "25
percent over a five-year average," as of the end of May.

A total of 2,696 guns were taken off the streets of Los Angeles, as of the end
of May, and those guns were not brought in as part of the city's gun buy-back
program, Beck said.

Updated numbers through June show an even bigger number of 3,231 guns were taken
off the streets, according to LAPD spokesman Josh Rubenstein.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 389 words

ABSTRACT

DN letters for Tues. March 21

FULL TEXT

Our Question of the Week asked readers,What is causing the upticks in crime?


To stop crime, hire more law-enforcement officers

It is no coincidence that the increase in crime occurred after the passage of
Proposition 47, which made multiple property crimes inconsequential
misdemeanors.

One has to look no farther than FBI statistics showing that after Prop. 47
property crime rose two years in a row across California, while falling in all
other large states. When criminal behavior is not punished, is there any wonder
that it increases?

The Public Policy Institute of California said: "The most recent credible
research finds that an additional police officer reduces crime by 1.3 violent
crimes and 4.2 property crimes per year. Other recent evidence estimates that
the crime-reducing benefits of hiring an additional police officer exceed
$300,000 per year, much more than the annual cost of an additional officer."

The rise in crime is costly for  Los Angeles County residents. However, as
several independent studies have shown, one proven solution to combat the crime
increases is to fully staff law enforcement agencies.

- Ron Hernandez The letter writer is president of Association for Los Angeles
Deputy Sheriffs

Leaders' decisions are a big part of the problem

Take your pick! Poverty, drugs, expensive justice system, overcrowded jails
resulting in early releases, failed leadership, gangs, some illegal immigrants,
and anyone else who opts to be a criminal, Proposition 47 and 57, and AB109 all
contribute to the rise in crime.

Under failed leadership, one can look at Los Angeles Police Department Chief
Charlie Beck. Under his leadership, crime statistics were falsified to make him
look good; he signed documents allowing the purchase of his daughter's horse for
the equestrian unit, and then denied involvement in the matter; and Sgt. Jim
Parker was ridden into retirement because he released evidence vindicating
claims of racism.

Beck now stands by while the city's Ethics Commission pursues charges against
Sgt. Parker.

Want more? Under his leadership, a scheme using "ghost cars" falsely inflated
staffing requirements. All of this while our politicians glad-hand each other
and tout their "successes."

Crime is not going down. Very disappointing.

- Steven H. Brackett, Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           August 16, 2017 Wednesday

Supervisors seek study of crime, state reforms

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 454 words

ABSTRACT

Saying they want to strike a balance between public outcry over rising crime
rates and statewide criminal justice reforms, Los Angeles County supervisors
voted Tuesday to approve the formation of a blue-ribbon commission to dig deeper
into how best to rehabilitate low-level criminals while also protecting
communities.

FULL TEXT

Saying they want to strike a balance between public outcry over rising crime
rates and statewide criminal justice reforms, Los Angeles County supervisors
voted Tuesday to approve the formation of a blue-ribbon commission to dig deeper
into how best to rehabilitate low-level criminals while also protecting
communities.

The 3-to-0 vote to approve the commission came after some soul-searching among
some supervisors who heard almost 60 people speak at the board meeting downtown
to express views for and against the need for a commission on public safety.
Most in favor included mayors, police chiefs, and businesses leaders from across
the county's 88 cities who said while such reforms such as AB 109, as well as
Propositions 47 and 57, were forged with intentions to save money by alleviating
overcrowded prisons, there were no safety nets in place to steer low-level
offenders into drug treatment, anger management and mental health services. As a
result, they say drug use, homelessness, and crime have increased.

"While developed with good intentions, the legislation may have created
unintended consequences and places our first-responders at risk," said Los
Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell. "We have an obligation to be the best we
could be. It's not about politics but about public safety."

But those opposed to it included members of community programs that help former
offenders with jobs and education, such as the well-known Homeboy Industries.
Members of such groups cautioned the board that forming a commission that
favored law enforcement tips the balance away from criminal justice reform.

"We believe we should be looking forward not backward," said Alex Johnson, the
managing director for Californians for Safety and Justice, the group behind the
creation of Proposition 47, which allows six nonviolent felonies - such as
simple drug possession or petty theft under $950 - to be changed to misdemeanors
on old criminal records.

Supervisors Kathryn Barger and Janice Hahn introduced the motion to form the
blue-ribbon commission to explore "solutions to restore the lives of the
individuals entangled in the justice system."

The commission would be made up of members of law enforcement as well as
business leaders, but after criticism about the lack of involvement of community
groups, Supervisors Hahn and Hilda Solis amended the motion to include community
leaders.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday

Valley sees rise in violent crime, greater than L.A. pace

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew; dbartholomew@scng.com @DN_DanaBart on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words

ABSTRACT

Valley Crime

FULL TEXT

Violent crime across Los Angeles rose for a third straight year during 2016, but
spikes in homicides, robberies and property crimes across the San Fernando
Valley outpaced the city as a whole, according to LAPD crime statistics released
this week.

Robberies across the Valley last year rose 33 percent from 2015 - from 1,571 to
2,085 - compared with 14 percent citywide. The number of Valley homicides
climbed 14 percent with 65 murders, compared with an increase of nearly 4
percent with 294 murders across Los Angeles.

"What we had this year that continues to haunt us is the number of homicides
that were meth-induced," said Deputy Chief Robert F. Green, commanding of

ficer for the Valley Bureau and a 37-year veteran of the Los Angeles Police
Department. Green recalled one case where a man reportedly threw his mother out
a window of a Van Nuys apartment. "For us to reduce crime, it's got to be a
partnership with the community."

Last year, Los Angeles saw a wave of homicides and gang-related shootings amid a
tide of homelessness that impacted crime in every corner of the city, officials
said.

Violent crime on the whole rose more than 10 percent, according to LAPD
statistics. That includes the 4 percent rise in homicide, 14 percent rise in
robberies and a nearly 10 percent rise in aggravated assaults.

Rapes, meanwhile, fell by 2.5 percent to 1,781 total sexual assaults.

The Valley followed a similar trend, but with a steeper increase in violent
crime, which rose more than 12 percent.  But compared with the city as a whole,
the Valley suffered fewer aggravated assaults, a nearly 6 percent increase. And
a lesser increase in rapes, at 3.4 percent.

While Los Angeles experienced a 4 percent increase in property crimes -
including burglaries, car break-ins and car thefts - Valley property crimes rose
by nearly 6 percent.

But the upward trend in overall crime paled compared with a quarter-century ago
when crime had hit an all-time high, city and law enforcement officials said. In
1992, Los Angeles suffered a record 1,094 homicides.

They attributed the recent growth in Valley crime to a state law mandating early
prison releases, a state proposition that turned some felony offenses to
misdemeanors and discouraged substance abusers from seeking treatment, and a
rapid rise in Valley homeless.

They also point to the vast size of the Valley, where the LAPD Valley Bureau
covers an area the size and population of the rest of Los Angeles.

And they point to a 36 percent uptick in homelessness this year across the San
Fernando Valley, to 7,100 residents.

"We've seen a huge spike in the homeless population, which contributes to crime,
" said Councilman Mitch Englander, who chairs a public safety committee and
whose district stretches across the Northwest Valley. "The misdemeanor charges
from drug- and alcohol-induced crimes, from theft to burglary, are a joke.

"And we don't have the ability now to mandate drug programs, because they're not
felonies."

Assembly Bill 109, which Gov. Jerry Brown signed in 2011, allowed for
nonviolent, nonserious, and nonsex offenders to be released from California
prisons to be supervised at the local level, a process known as realignment.

"We released a lot of ex-felons and don't have the systems in place to care and
to support them when they come out," Green said.

Proposition 47, approved by California voters in 2014, cut some drug and
property offenses from felonies to misdemeanors, which critics say stripped
prosecutors of leverage to compel drug and alcohol rehab.

Both Englander and Green said the city needs to hire more police to combat
crime.

They also said Los Angeles needs more community participation, from after-school
programs that deter at-risk youth from crime, to intervention programs such as
an LAPD Arrest Deferral Program that targets young offenders. Meanwhile,
homeless residents need treatment, too.

"A significant portion of the homeless population have severe addictions to
methamphetamine and heroin, and I can't get them into treatment," Green said.
"So I have a population that is drug-addicted, living on the street, and they
only thing they care about is the next fix.

"That's why my street robberies are up, breaking into vehicles, breaking into
homes."

Some blame a greater increase in Valley crime compared with the city as a whole
on a lack of resources poured into the San Fernando Valley relative to its
population and tax base.

"The Valley, which votes in a higher percentage during elections, doesn't get as
much back as it pays in," said Howard Cohen, a political analyst in North Hills.
"The bottom line: The city has not addressed the increases in crime in the
Valley for the past few years.

"It's like the Valley has always gotten short shrift, period."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday

Valley sees rise in violent crime, greater than L.A. pace

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew; dbartholomew@scng.com @DN_DanaBart on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words

ABSTRACT

Valley Crime

FULL TEXT

Violent crime across Los Angeles rose for a third straight year during 2016, but
spikes in homicides, robberies and property crimes across the San Fernando
Valley outpaced the city as a whole, according to LAPD crime statistics released
this week.

Robberies across the Valley last year rose 33 percent from 2015 - from 1,571 to
2,085 - compared with 14 percent citywide. The number of Valley homicides
climbed 14 percent with 65 murders, compared with an increase of nearly 4
percent with 294 murders across Los Angeles.

"What we had this year that continues to haunt us is the number of homicides
that were meth-induced," said Deputy Chief Robert F. Green, commanding of

ficer for the Valley Bureau and a 37-year veteran of the Los Angeles Police
Department. Green recalled one case where a man reportedly threw his mother out
a window of a Van Nuys apartment. "For us to reduce crime, it's got to be a
partnership with the community."

Last year, Los Angeles saw a wave of homicides and gang-related shootings amid a
tide of homelessness that impacted crime in every corner of the city, officials
said.

Violent crime on the whole rose more than 10 percent, according to LAPD
statistics. That includes the 4 percent rise in homicide, 14 percent rise in
robberies and a nearly 10 percent rise in aggravated assaults.

Rapes, meanwhile, fell by 2.5 percent to 1,781 total sexual assaults.

The Valley followed a similar trend, but with a steeper increase in violent
crime, which rose more than 12 percent.  But compared with the city as a whole,
the Valley suffered fewer aggravated assaults, a nearly 6 percent increase. And
a lesser increase in rapes, at 3.4 percent.

While Los Angeles experienced a 4 percent increase in property crimes -
including burglaries, car break-ins and car thefts - Valley property crimes rose
by nearly 6 percent.

But the upward trend in overall crime paled compared with a quarter-century ago
when crime had hit an all-time high, city and law enforcement officials said. In
1992, Los Angeles suffered a record 1,094 homicides.

They attributed the recent growth in Valley crime to a state law mandating early
prison releases, a state proposition that turned some felony offenses to
misdemeanors and discouraged substance abusers from seeking treatment, and a
rapid rise in Valley homeless.

They also point to the vast size of the Valley, where the LAPD Valley Bureau
covers an area the size and population of the rest of Los Angeles.

And they point to a 36 percent uptick in homelessness this year across the San
Fernando Valley, to 7,100 residents.

"We've seen a huge spike in the homeless population, which contributes to crime,
" said Councilman Mitch Englander, who chairs a public safety committee and
whose district stretches across the Northwest Valley. "The misdemeanor charges
from drug- and alcohol-induced crimes, from theft to burglary, are a joke.

"And we don't have the ability now to mandate drug programs, because they're not
felonies."

Assembly Bill 109, which Gov. Jerry Brown signed in 2011, allowed for
nonviolent, nonserious, and nonsex offenders to be released from California
prisons to be supervised at the local level, a process known as realignment.

"We released a lot of ex-felons and don't have the systems in place to care and
to support them when they come out," Green said.

Proposition 47, approved by California voters in 2014, cut some drug and
property offenses from felonies to misdemeanors, which critics say stripped
prosecutors of leverage to compel drug and alcohol rehab.

Both Englander and Green said the city needs to hire more police to combat
crime.

They also said Los Angeles needs more community participation, from after-school
programs that deter at-risk youth from crime, to intervention programs such as
an LAPD Arrest Deferral Program that targets young offenders. Meanwhile,
homeless residents need treatment, too.

"A significant portion of the homeless population have severe addictions to
methamphetamine and heroin, and I can't get them into treatment," Green said.
"So I have a population that is drug-addicted, living on the street, and they
only thing they care about is the next fix.

"That's why my street robberies are up, breaking into vehicles, breaking into
homes."

Some blame a greater increase in Valley crime compared with the city as a whole
on a lack of resources poured into the San Fernando Valley relative to its
population and tax base.

"The Valley, which votes in a higher percentage during elections, doesn't get as
much back as it pays in," said Howard Cohen, a political analyst in North Hills.
"The bottom line: The city has not addressed the increases in crime in the
Valley for the past few years.

"It's like the Valley has always gotten short shrift, period."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                              July 9, 2017 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
BECK: CRIME IN L.A. LEVELS OFF;
LAPD chief calls 2017's midyear numbers a sign that police are making progress.

BYLINE: Kate Mather

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


Overall crime in Los Angeles has nearly leveled off at the midyear mark, Police
Chief Charlie Beck said Thursday, calling 2017's numbers a sign that police are
making progress against the city's stubborn uptick in crime.

As of July 1, overall crime was up less than 1% when compared with the first six
months of 2016 -- notably lower than the 6.6% increase the LAPD reported halfway
through 2016 and the 12.7% jump the year before.

Beck announced the figures at the weekly meeting of his civilian bosses on the
Police Commission. He later credited the progress to a variety of factors:
shifting department resources to target violent crime, improving predictive
policing to help stem property crime, adapting to changes in legislation and a
"relentless focus" on crime from LAPD brass.

Beck also said he hoped that by the end of the year, the city would see crime
drop. If overall crime ultimately falls this year, it will mark the first such
decrease since 2014.

"I am cautiously optimistic," Beck said. "But we'll see."

The most significant change this year has been in violent crime, which Beck said
has risen about 1%. In both 2016 and 2015, the LAPD reported double-digit
increases in violent crime at the midyear mark.

Still, homicides increased about 2% in the first six months of this year, Beck
said, which he attributed in part to a 2.4% jump in gang-related killings. The
number of gunshot victims across the city rose by roughly 4%. Aggravated
assaults, he added, were "about even."

Beck said the department's efforts to target violent crime -- which largely have
hinged on shifting Metropolitan Division officers to neighborhoods hit hardest
by violence -- "stabilized us."

Faced with the city's first major crime increase in more than a decade, Mayor
Eric Garcetti announced in 2015 that the LAPD would double the size of its elite
Metropolitan Division. The LAPD flooded crime hot spots with Metro officers,
concentrating on areas where gangs were active or where violence had recently
flared.

"Much like anything in life, it's the constant application of things that you
believe in and that work," Beck said. "Sometimes they're more effective than
others, but over time, they will always succeed."

The president of the union representing rank-and-file officers noted, however,
that violent crime was still significantly higher than it was in 2013.

The leveling off "is nothing to get too excited about," said Craig Lally of the
Los Angeles Police Protective League.

"With the hot summer months upon us, a season that typically brings more crime
with it, now is not the time for anyone to pat themselves on the back, but
rather, now is the time for Chief Beck to sharpen his pencil and create a plan
to restore safety in our neighborhoods," he said.

--

kate.mather@latimes.com

Twitter: @katemather

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             May 27, 2017 Saturday

Far-left seen as threat to speech;
Political extremists instigating violence on campus, report says; hate crimes
rise in Los Angeles

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

ABSTRACT

Hate crimes increase during election season.

FULL TEXT

Violent clashes and arrests as a result of political intolerance increased in
2016 on California college campuses and at pro-Trump rallies, as did far-left
extremism that could lead to more civil conflicts, researchers concluded in a
report presented this week to Los Angeles County officials.

Frayed race relations, demographic changes and political divisions along with
distrust in institutions and the democratic process all contributed to the rise
of hate crimes and extremism, said Brian Levin, a terrorism expert and professor
at Cal State San Bernardino who authored the report. He presented it this week
in West Hollywood during a quarterly meeting of Los Angeles County's Network
Against Hate Crime.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to

the maintenance of free speech on some California campuses, like UC Berkeley,
owing to their swarming of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial
speakers," Levin said in the report. Politics and a heated election year also
led to more hate crimes and civil conflicts in some of California's largest
cities last year compared with 2015, he added.

Last June, 14 people were injured and 106 people faced charges as a result of a
clash in Sacramento between groups who describe themselves as Alt-Right,
skinheads and the self-described anti-fascist group Antifa.

Assaults, vandalism and derogatory remarks based on politics are not considered
hate crimes. But those far left groups should be watched closely, Levin warned.

"Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa, and other hard-left partisans, like the
Bay Area group By Any Means Necessary (BAMN), not only targeted hate groups,
racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans, but police, journalists, campus
venues, and Trump supporters as well, a small number of whom, sometimes also
instigated violence," Levin said in his report.

"They increasingly saw demonstrations less as an opportunity for expression, and
more as the culmination of a pre-choreographed violent street or campus battle,
that began as vitriolic disputes on social media," he added.

Those demonstrations threaten free speech, inclusion and the right of all views
to be expressed, said Casey Mattox, senior counsel and the director of the
Center for Academic Freedom with Alliance Defending Freedom. The group filed a
federal lawsuit against Cal State Los Angeles, and several CSULA professors last
year for allegedly allowing a mob to block access to a speech to be given by
conservative author and political commentator Ben Shapiro.

The lawsuit was eventually dismissed after the university agreed to changing
some of its policies.

When universities allow mobs to shut down such events "it sends a message that
some people and some views are completely ostracized from society and that does
not lead to good things," Mattox said.

"It also means that the ideas in power are not criticized and checked," he
added. "Even if you're right, there's always something you can learn from
another person."

Robin Toma, executive director of the Los Angeles County Human Relations
Commission, said that while assaults, vandalism and other incidents based on
political disagreements aren't considered hate crimes, that doesn't mean the
commission isn't concerned about it.

"We want to make sure we promote civility and people listen to each other," he
said.

Meanwhile, the 14 percent increase in overall hate crimes across the Golden
State included a threat against a mosque in Fresno - in which someone stated
"President Trump is going to cleanse America and do to Muslims what Hitler did
to the Jews" - and a spike in vandalism in Orange County.

Among the California cities examined, Los Angeles and San Jose showed what Levin
called notable growth of hate crimes during the election time period compared
with previous months or during the same time period in 2015.

Los Angeles had a 29 percent increase in the fourth quarter of 2016 when
compared with the previous year, while San Jose saw its numbers of hate crimes
triple from 3 to 9 during that same period, according to the report.

In California, a hate crime is "a criminal act of intimidation, harassment,
physical force or threat toward a person or property because of someone's actual
or perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, ancestry, religion, gender,
sexual orientation, age or disability."

"We saw a definite spike," Levin said of Los Angeles, which tends to drive the
data for the rest of the state.

The report also found:

o Hate crimes based on race, ethnicity and sexual orientation rose 15 percent in
Los Angeles but religion-based hate crimes decreased.

o Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes, the third-highest number any city in the
nation in 2016 behind New York, which had 380 and Boston, which reported 275.

o California has the largest number of hate groups, and those groups are
increasing.

The report concluded that overall hate crimes in nine of California's largest
cities rose to a total of 354 in 2016, up from 2015's total of 310.

The data were provided by local law enforcement agencies and will likely
increase as more information for 2016 is released. Levin said police data can
fall short of reporting hate crimes and incidents against Sikhs, Arabs, and
transgender people.

Still, if the rise in hate crimes for 2016 holds, then it will be the first year
in two decades where California experienced back-to-back consecutive annual
increases, since 2015 also showed a spike from the year before, he noted.

But even with the rise in hate crimes, the totals will still likely be lower
than the record of 2,246 reported in the state in 2001, in the aftermath of the
9/11 terror attacks, Levin said.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 9, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 394 words

ABSTRACT

DN letters for Nov. 9

FULL TEXT

           Police chief, mayor need a reality check on crime

Re "Valley LAPD captain says department under-reported violent crime stats
despite her sounding alarm" (Nov. 7):

Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck had a "wake-up call" about bogus
divisional crime stats two years ago and launched a "thorough investigation." I
guess once his contract was renewed he forgot to monitor the bogus crime stats,
so it has continued.

He has since boasted about reductions in crime in L.A., even though no apparent
permanent correction was made, and without lamenting how Proposition 47
decreased many felonies to misdemeanors!

Meanwhile, our mayor struts about the country, touting his achievements as mayor
of the second largest city in the United States! He and Chief Beck need to look
at the violent crime all of us see on each morning's news to get a grip on
reality.

- Steve Brackett, Los Angeles

Mindless march

Re "Anti- and pro-Trump protesters face off in downtown L.A. rally" (Nov. 4):

Oh no. Not another mindless march to protest Trump and to drive his
administration from power. Just how do they plan to drive Trump from power now?

Don't they remember we just had an election about a year ago and the citizens
drove the leftist liberals from power?

And if they are worried about a catastrophic danger to humanity, they should be
marching in North Korea to drive Kim Jong Un from power.

The march will cost the citizens of Los Angeles thousands if not millions -
money that could be spent to repair broken sidewalks, streets and potholes and
it will produce needless disruption of normal life for all here in the city.
What a waste.

- Laszlo Pfahler, Woodland Hills

Missing good leadership

Re "Assemblyman Raul Bocanegra should resign over sexual misconduct" (Editorial,
Oct. 31):

In the editorial, you say "... elected officials must be held to high ethical
and moral standards." I was wondering when you thought we might begin doing
this? In the decades I've observed our politicians, there is a noticeable void
in quality. And we are at fault, as we keep hiring these same vermin.

If even one-third of our taxes were used efficiently we would have great
streets, highways and sidewalks covering an up-to-date infrastructure for water
and waste, etc. and so on.

- Warren Larson, Sunland

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 6, 2017 Monday
                                  Home Edition

LAPD accused of misclassifying crime statistics;
In a claim against the city, a captain says the department gave false figures to
the public.

BYLINE: Matt Hamilton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words


A Los Angeles Police Department captain has accused high-ranking members of the
force of misclassifying violent crime and misleading the public about the true
state of lawbreaking in the city.

Capt. Lillian Carranza, who oversees the LAPD's Van Nuys station, alleged in a
claim filed against the city last week that she began notifying superiors in
2014 about the underreporting of crime in the Foothill area, which includes
Pacoima, Sunland and Tujunga -- but no action was taken.

After assuming command of the Van Nuys station in 2015, she conducted her own
analysis of violent crime reports in an LAPD database, according to the claim.
The eight-page claim, which typically precedes a civil court lawsuit, did not
include the raw data Carranza used in her analysis.

Aggravated assaults in 2016 were underreported by about 10% in the Pacific and
Central divisions, according to the claim, which alleges those cases were
misclassified as less serious offenses.

The LAPD, according to Carranza's complaint, "engaged in a highly complex and
elaborate coverup in an attempt to hide the fact that command officers had been
providing false crime figures to the public attempting to convince the public
that crime was not significantly increasing."

More recent analysis of the Hollenbeck and Mission divisions by Carranza also
showed a 10% undercounting of aggravated assaults in 2017, according to her
claim.

The LAPD did not comment on Carranza's allegations, citing the pending
litigation. But in a statement issued by LAPD spokesman Josh Rubenstein, the
department touted the accuracy of its crime statistics and the development of a
special unit that scrutinizes its data.

"When errors are found, records are corrected and additional training and other
corrective action is taken," the statement said.

"Integrity in all we say and do is a core value for the department and any
accusation related to the accuracy of our reports will be taken very seriously
and investigated as a potential disciplinary matter."

Carranza lodged multiple complaints about the data discrepancies and in
September was told by a supervisor that she would not receive a promotion to
commander because she was "meddling into others' business," according to the
claim. She is seeking damages for lost wages and pension money from missing the
promotion as well as for emotional distress and unspecified physical injuries.

The allegations come after a 2014 Los Angeles Times investigation found that the
LAPD misclassified nearly 1,200 violent crimes during a one-year span ending in
September 2013. Beatings, stabbings and robberies that should have been
classified as aggravated assaults instead were recorded as minor offenses. If
recorded correctly, the figures for aggravated assaults in the yearlong period
would have been nearly 14% higher, The Times found.

The newspaper also found that from 2005 to fall 2012, the LAPD misclassified an
estimated 14,000 aggravated assaults as minor offenses, artificially lowering
the city's violent crime rate.

After The Times' reports, a 2015 audit by the LAPD's inspector general estimated
the department misclassified more than 25,000 aggravated assaults as minor
incidents from 2008 to 2014.

The erroneous figures "were due to a combination of systemic issues, procedural
deficiencies, department-wide misconceptions about what constitutes an
aggravated assault, and, in a small number of cases, individual officer error,"
the audit found.

After the reports, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck acknowledged that the process of
recording crimes had problems and he implemented changes to increase
accountability and training on classification. Among the reforms was the
creation of a Data Integrity Unit, consisting of a small team of detectives and
data analysts responsible for improving crime reporting.

Carranza said she notified the Data Integrity Unit about the discrepancies in
violent crime reporting. "However, no action was taken," her claim said.

--

matt.hamilton@latimes.com

Times staff writer Ben Poston contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LAPD CHIEF Charlie Beck, right, implemented changes to increase
training on crime classification.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Irfan Khan Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             May 27, 2017 Saturday

Far-left seen as threat to speech;
Political extremists instigating violence on campus, report says; hate crimes
rise in Los Angeles

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

ABSTRACT

Hate crimes increase during election season.

FULL TEXT

Violent clashes and arrests as a result of political intolerance increased in
2016 on California college campuses and at pro-Trump rallies, as did far-left
extremism that could lead to more civil conflicts, researchers concluded in a
report presented this week to Los Angeles County officials.

Frayed race relations, demographic changes and political divisions along with
distrust in institutions and the democratic process all contributed to the rise
of hate crimes and extremism, said Brian Levin, a terrorism expert and professor
at Cal State San Bernardino who authored the report. He presented it this week
in West Hollywood during a quarterly meeting of Los Angeles County's Network
Against Hate Crime.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to the maintenance of free speech on
some California campuses, like UC Berkeley, owing to

their swarming of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial speakers," Levin
said in the report. Politics and a heated election year also led to more hate
crimes and civil conflicts in some of California's largest cities last year
compared with 2015, he added.

Last June, 14 people were injured and 106 people faced charges as a result of a
clash in Sacramento between groups who describe themselves as Alt-Right,
skinheads and the self-described anti-fascist group Antifa.

Assaults, vandalism and derogatory remarks based on politics are not considered
hate crimes. But those far left groups should be watched closely, Levin warned.

"Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa, and other hard-left partisans, like the
Bay Area group By Any Means Necessary (BAMN), not only targeted hate groups,
racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans, but police, journalists, campus
venues, and Trump supporters as well, a small number of whom, sometimes also
instigated violence," Levin said in his report.

"They increasingly saw demonstrations less as an opportunity for expression, and
more as the culmination of a pre-choreographed violent street or campus battle,
that began as vitriolic disputes on social media," he added.

Those demonstrations threaten free speech, inclusion and the right of all views
to be expressed, said Casey Mattox, senior counsel and the director of the
Center for Academic Freedom with Alliance Defending Freedom. The group filed a
federal lawsuit against Cal State Los Angeles, and several CSULA professors last
year for allegedly allowing a mob to block access to a speech to be given by
conservative author and political commentator Ben Shapiro.

The lawsuit was eventually dismissed after the university agreed to changing
some of its policies.

When universities allow mobs to shut down such events "it sends a message that
some people and some views are completely ostracized from society and that does
not lead to good things," Mattox said.

"It also means that the ideas in power are not criticized and checked," he
added. "Even if you're right, there's always something you can learn from
another person."

Robin Toma, executive director of the Los Angeles County Human Relations
Commission, said that while assaults, vandalism and other incidents based on
political disagreements aren't considered hate crimes, that doesn't mean the
commission isn't concerned about it.

"We want to make sure we promote civility and people listen to each other," he
said.

Meanwhile, the 14 percent increase in overall hate crimes across the Golden
State included a threat against a mosque in Fresno - in which someone stated
"President Trump is going to cleanse America and do to Muslims what Hitler did
to the Jews" - and a spike in vandalism in Orange County.

Among the California cities examined, Los Angeles and San Jose showed what Levin
called notable growth of hate crimes during the election time period compared
with previous months or during the same time period in 2015.

Los Angeles had a 29 percent increase in the fourth quarter of 2016 when
compared with the previous year, while San Jose saw its numbers of hate crimes
triple from 3 to 9 during that same period, according to the report.

In California, a hate crime is "a criminal act of intimidation, harassment,
physical force or threat toward a person or property because of someone's actual
or perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, ancestry, religion, gender,
sexual orientation, age or disability."

"We saw a definite spike," Levin said of Los Angeles, which tends to drive the
data for the rest of the state.

The report also found:

o Hate crimes based on race, ethnicity and sexual orientation rose 15 percent in
Los Angeles but religion-based hate crimes decreased.

o Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes, the third-highest number any city in the
nation in 2016 behind New York, which had 380 and Boston, which reported 275.

o California has the largest number of hate groups, and those groups are
increasing.

The report concluded that overall hate crimes in nine of California's largest
cities rose to a total of 354 in 2016, up from 2015's total of 310.

The data were provided by local law enforcement agencies and will likely
increase as more information for 2016 is released. Levin said police data can
fall short of reporting hate crimes and incidents against Sikhs, Arabs, and
transgender people.

Still, if the rise in hate crimes for 2016 holds, then it will be the first year
in two decades where California experienced back-to-back consecutive annual
increases, since 2015 also showed a spike from the year before, he noted.

But even with the rise in hate crimes, the totals will still likely be lower
than the record of 2,246 reported in the state in 2001, in the aftermath of the
9/11 terror attacks, Levin said.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

Blame for violence goes left and right

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 363 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN

FULL TEXT

A hate-crime expert's report to Los Angeles County officials on the reasons for
a rise in political violence is something people should hear - even if they'd
rather not.

Nobody wants to be told that their side of the political divide is partly to
blame for the dark turn in the climate of debate. We'd all like to think it's
the other side that takes things too far.

So it's informative to read the report by professor Brian Levin of Cal State San
Bernardino's Department of Criminal Justice, and see that the political left and
right are both responsible.

Levin presented his report, based on Los Angeles Police Department data, last
week to L.A. County's Network Against Hate Crime.

It showed that the city of Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes in 2016, up 15
percent from 2015 - L.A.'s first consecutive annual increases in two decades.

Crimes motivated by the victim's identity were led last year by 54 against
blacks, 42 against gay men, 37 against Jewish people and 25 against Hispanics.

But next on the list were 12 hate crimes listed as "anti-white," up from seven
the year before.

That's more than the number of hate crimes against Muslims, or against Asians or
Pacific islanders.

Official statistics on hate crimes don't include crimes targeting members of
political groups. But violence at political demonstrations also rose in 2016 in
the heat of the presidential race, Levin said. The rising threat to civil
discourse, he said, now comes from the extreme left.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to the maintenance of free speech on
some California [university] campuses, like UC Berkeley, owing to their swarming
of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial speakers," Levin said in his
report.

Levin said: "Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa and other hard-left partisans
... not only targeted hate groups, racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans,
but police, journalists, campus venues and [Donald] Trump supporters as well, a
small number of whom sometimes instigated violence."

Neither political extreme can escape responsibility. That's a hard lesson for
many to learn. Which is why it's the message that must be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                        Tillmann Forensic Investigations

                                 P.O. Box 4373
                               Covina,  CA 91723
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (626) 483-0397
FAX: (626) 771-3934
URL: www.tfi-llc.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Tillmann Forensic Investigations is owned and operated by Steven A. Tillmann,
and was established in April of 2012. Steve has over 32 years experience in Law
Enforcement as a Deputy Sheriff and Crime Scene Investigator. Steve retired from
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department in March of 2012 and for 18 years he
worked in Forensics as a Crime Scene Investigator and Fingerprint
Expert/Examiner for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, Scientific
Services Bureau, Crime Lab. Prior to working at the Crime Lab, Steve worked as a
Deputy in Patrol, working numerous assignments including Station Traffic
Investigator, Commercial Vehicle Enforcement and various assignments in Custody
Division.  Steve has testified as a Fingerprint Expert in all aspects of
fingerprints, and as an Expert Witness on Crime Scenes and Crime Scene
Photography. He has testified in Los Angeles County Municipal and Superior
Court, Federal Court, Riverside County Superior Court and for the Los Angeles
County Grand Jury. He is listed on the Los Angeles County Superior Court Expert
Witness List.  Steve is a Certified Latent Print Examiner, certified thru the
International Association of Identification, (IAI).  Since 2008, Steve has been
involved in the use and training of the Leica Scanstation 3D Laser Scanner at
Crime Scenes and Accident Scenes, including the Metrolink Train Collision in
Chatsworth, CA. Steve can assist your agency or company with initial
consultation and set-up for Crime Scene and A

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              25 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New arrests in deadly 1993 Los Angeles apartment arson

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 304 words


LOS ANGELES - Detective work decades after fire swept through a Los Angeles
apartment building filled with poor immigrants has led to arrests of alleged
gang members and the prospect of murder charges for the deaths of seven
children, three women and two late-term fetuses, authorities said Monday.

"They just would not let this case go," Police Chief Charlie Beck said at a news
conference, speaking about investigators who solved the crime.

Authorities alleged that the 1993 fire was set as revenge against an apartment
manager who tried to stop rampant drug dealing in the building during an era
that Beck called "the zenith of violent crime in Los Angeles."

"A new manager came into the location and tried to do the right thing and stop
the narcotics sales," Beck said.

Ramiro Valerio, 43, of Palmdale, and Joseph Monge, 41, of Montebello, were
arrested Friday. Johanna Lopez, 51, was in custody on related charges and was to
be formally arrested in the new case on Tuesday. Valerio was held in lieu of $25
million bail. Monge was held in lieu of $2 million bail.

A fourth person was being sought, but no information was released because he
fled the country.

In 2013, the Los Angeles Police Department's Robbery-Homicide Division assumed
investigative responsibility and began a fresh inquiry, including contacting
witnesses who were now willing to testify.

"In most cases, time can hinder a prosecution," said Los Angeles County District
Attorney Jackie Lacey. "But in this case, time was actually on our side."

Police were seeking 12 counts of murder against each .

The fire erupted on May 3, 1993, in a three-story building in Westlake, west of
downtown. Nearly all the tenants were immigrants from Mexico, El Salvador and
Guatemala.

Residents tried to escape by jumping from windows and climbing down bedsheets
tied to balconies.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE- In this May 3, 1993 file photo, a young man weeps after seeing a
dead child in front of an apartment house in the Westlake district that was
devastated by fire in Los Angeles. Police have arrested several people for the
1993 apartment building fire that killed 10 people, including seven children,
Saturday, Feb. 4, 2017. ( J.Albert Diaz/Los Angeles Times via AP)  FILE - In
this May 3, 1993, file photo, May Isabela Diego holds her infant son Pedro in
the aftermath of a fire in an apartment complex in the Westlake section of Los
Angeles. Diego had to drop her two children out of a window as fire threatened
their safety. Police have arrested several people for the 1993 fire that killed
10 people, including seven children. (AP Photo/Michael Tweed, File)  FILE - In
this May 3, 1993, file photo, a survivor of an apartment complex fire is wheeled
to an ambulance by Los Angeles Fire Department personnel near downtown Los
Angeles. Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck will announce details of arrests
made in connection with the 1993 fire that killed 10 people, including seven
children. Officials said that several arrests were made recently and the people
remain jailed. (AP Photo/Doug Pizac,File)  Los Angeles police Sgt. Jack Richter
displays photos of arson suspects from a 1993 fire prior to a news conference in
Los Angeles, Monday, Feb. 6, 2017. Los Angeles police say three people are in
custody and a fourth is being sought in connection with a deadly fire that
struck an apartment building in 1993. Two men were arrested Feb. 3 and a woman
was already in custody in connection with the fire. Police will ask the district
attorney to file homicide charges with special circumstances involving multiple
victims, gang affiliations and arson. (AP Photo/Nick Ut)  Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck talks during a news conference in Los Angeles, Monday, Feb.
6, 2017. Los Angeles police say three people are in custody and a fourth is
being sought in connection with a deadly fire that struck an apartment building
in 1993. Beck says two men were arrested Feb. 3 and a woman was already in
custody in connection with the fire. Police will ask the district attorney to
file homicide charges with special circumstances involving multiple victims,
gang affiliations and arson. (AP Photo/Nick Ut)  Los Angeles District Attorney
Jackie Lacey, left, talks while Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck looks on
during a news conference in Los Angeles, Monday, Feb. 6, 2017. Los Angeles
police say three people are in custody and a fourth is being sought in
connection with a deadly fire that struck an apartment building in 1993. Two men
were arrested Feb. 3 and a woman was already in custody in connection with the
fire. Police will ask the district attorney to file homicide charges with
special circumstances involving multiple victims, gang affiliations and arson.
(AP Photo/Nick Ut)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

Blame for violence goes left and right

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 363 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN

FULL TEXT

A hate-crime expert's report to Los Angeles County officials on the reasons for
a rise in political violence is something people should hear - even if they'd
rather not.

Nobody wants to be told that their side of the political divide is partly to
blame for the dark turn in the climate of debate. We'd all like to think it's
the other side that takes things too far.

So it's informative to read the report by professor Brian Levin of Cal State San
Bernardino's Department of Criminal Justice, and see that the political left and
right are both responsible.

Levin presented his report, based on Los Angeles Police Department data, last
week to L.A. County's Network Against Hate Crime.

It showed that the city of Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes in 2016, up 15
percent from 2015 - L.A.'s first consecutive annual increases in two decades.

Crimes motivated by the victim's identity were led last year by 54 against
blacks, 42 against gay men, 37 against Jewish people and 25 against Hispanics.

But next on the list were 12 hate crimes listed as "anti-white," up from seven
the year before.

That's more than the number of hate crimes against Muslims, or against Asians or
Pacific islanders.

Official statistics on hate crimes don't include crimes targeting members of
political groups. But violence at political demonstrations also rose in 2016 in
the heat of the presidential race, Levin said. The rising threat to civil
discourse, he said, now comes from the extreme left.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to the maintenance of free speech on
some California [university] campuses, like UC Berkeley, owing to their swarming
of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial speakers," Levin said in his
report.

Levin said: "Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa and other hard-left partisans
... not only targeted hate groups, racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans,
but police, journalists, campus venues and [Donald] Trump supporters as well, a
small number of whom sometimes instigated violence."

Neither political extreme can escape responsibility. That's a hard lesson for
many to learn. Which is why it's the message that must be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

Blame for violence goes left and right

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 363 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN

FULL TEXT

A hate-crime expert's report to Los Angeles County officials on the reasons for
a rise in political violence is something people should hear - even if they'd
rather not.

Nobody wants to be told that their side of the political divide is partly to
blame for the dark turn in the climate of debate. We'd all like to think it's
the other side that takes things too far.

So it's informative to read the report by professor Brian Levin of Cal State San
Bernardino's Department of Criminal Justice, and see that the political left and
right are both responsible.

Levin presented his report, based on Los Angeles Police Department data, last
week to L.A. County's Network Against Hate Crime.

It showed that the city of Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes in 2016, up 15
percent from 2015 - L.A.'s first consecutive annual increases in two decades.

Crimes motivated by the victim's identity were led last year by 54 against
blacks, 42 against gay men, 37 against Jewish people and 25 against Hispanics.

But next on the list were 12 hate crimes listed as "anti-white," up from seven
the year before.

That's more than the number of hate crimes against Muslims, or against Asians or
Pacific islanders.

Official statistics on hate crimes don't include crimes targeting members of
political groups. But violence at political demonstrations also rose in 2016 in
the heat of the presidential race, Levin said. The rising threat to civil
discourse, he said, now comes from the extreme left.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to the maintenance of free speech on
some California [university] campuses, like UC Berkeley, owing to their swarming
of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial speakers," Levin said in his
report.

Levin said: "Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa and other hard-left partisans
... not only targeted hate groups, racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans,
but police, journalists, campus venues and [Donald] Trump supporters as well, a
small number of whom sometimes instigated violence."

Neither political extreme can escape responsibility. That's a hard lesson for
many to learn. Which is why it's the message that must be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

Blame for violence goes left and right

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 363 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN

FULL TEXT

A hate-crime expert's report to Los Angeles County officials on the reasons for
a rise in political violence is something people should hear - even if they'd
rather not.

Nobody wants to be told that their side of the political divide is partly to
blame for the dark turn in the climate of debate. We'd all like to think it's
the other side that takes things too far.

So it's informative to read the report by professor Brian Levin of Cal State San
Bernardino's Department of Criminal Justice, and see that the political left and
right are both responsible.

Levin presented his report, based on Los Angeles Police Department data, last
week to L.A. County's Network Against Hate Crime.

It showed that the city of Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes in 2016, up 15
percent from 2015 - L.A.'s first consecutive annual increases in two decades.

Crimes motivated by the victim's identity were led last year by 54 against
blacks, 42 against gay men, 37 against Jewish people and 25 against Hispanics.

But next on the list were 12 hate crimes listed as "anti-white," up from seven
the year before.

That's more than the number of hate crimes against Muslims, or against Asians or
Pacific islanders.

Official statistics on hate crimes don't include crimes targeting members of
political groups. But violence at political demonstrations also rose in 2016 in
the heat of the presidential race, Levin said. The rising threat to civil
discourse, he said, now comes from the extreme left.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to the maintenance of free speech on
some California [university] campuses, like UC Berkeley, owing to their swarming
of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial speakers," Levin said in his
report.

Levin said: "Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa and other hard-left partisans
... not only targeted hate groups, racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans,
but police, journalists, campus venues and [Donald] Trump supporters as well, a
small number of whom sometimes instigated violence."

Neither political extreme can escape responsibility. That's a hard lesson for
many to learn. Which is why it's the message that must be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Library Journal Reviews

                                 March 15, 2017

The Psychology of Hate Crimes as Domestic Terrorism: U.S. and Global Issues

BYLINE: Christine Sharbrough

SECTION: REVIEWS; Reference;  Vol. 142 No. 5

LENGTH: 359 words


The Psychology of Hate Crimes as Domestic Terrorism: U.S. and Global Issues. 3
vols. Praeger: ABC-CLIO. Nov. 2016. 1080p. ed. by Edward Dunbar & others. index.
ISBN 9781440839061. $194; ebk. ISBN 9781440839078. REF

Dunbar (psychology, Univ. of California, Los Angeles), Amalio Blanco (social
psychology, Autonomous Univ. of Madrid), and Desiree A. Crevecoeur-MacPhail
(project director, Los Angeles Cty. Evaluation Program, Univ. of California, Los
Angeles) have compiled a stunning amount of research into this three-volume set.
The issues examined are international in scope, including but not limited to the
United States, the European Union, South America, and the Middle East. The first
volume concentrates on the "who," covering the theoretical, legal, and cultural
factors that influence the perpetrators of hate crimes. Elements that cause or
are related to extremism, social attitudes, human rights laws, verbal and
physical hatred, and gender bias are analyzed in detail. As the focus shifts
between countries and crimes, a global picture begins to emerge that illustrates
the similarities and differences between hate crimes and domestic terrorism. The
second volume explores the "why" of perpetrators of these crimes, providing
sociodemographic, psychological, and behavioral offender profiles alongside
information on victim impact and possible strategies to assess risk factors for
offenders. The perspectives of both victims and offenders are studied to present
both sides of the situation. The third volume considers possible solutions.
Psychiatric treatment of offenders, theoretical approaches to treatment, and the
importance of understanding the risks of the Jihadist mind-set are addressed.
The editors of this dense, scholarly written three-volume compendium have done
an excellent job of presenting multiple different facets of a complex and
pressing global issue. With many in-text citations, the book offers various
paths to relevant materials. VERDICT A strong choice for graduate school
students or professors, this work is an ideal jumping-off point for any number
of discussion topics.--Christine Sharbrough, Tewksbury P.L., MA

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2017 Library Journals, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           October 25, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

Toback accuser list is growing;
Julianne Moore adds herself to 200-plus women who've cited director's behavior.

BYLINE: Lauren Raab, Josh Rottenberg

SECTION: CALENDAR; Business Desk; Part E; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words


Hundreds of women, including actress Julianne Moore, have now come forward with
allegations of crass behavior and sexual misdeeds by filmmaker James Toback, and
authorities in Los Angeles and New York are urging them to file official
reports.

As the ranks of accusers grew Tuesday, Toback also faced condemnation from the
only major entertainment-industry guild that still counts him as a member.

After the Los Angeles Times reported Sunday that 38 women had accused the
writer-director of sexual harassment, more than 200 other women contacted The
Times to describe similar unwanted advances.

Whether Toback will face any legal repercussions, however, is unclear.

The Los Angeles Police Department has not received any formal complaints about
Toback, so it has not opened a criminal investigation, police Capt. Billy Hayes
said.

"We have fielded a number of calls stating they may be a victim, but none have
come forward to identify themselves or provide an account of the incident," said
Hayes, who oversees the LAPD unit that deals with high-profile sex crimes.

Dmitry Gorin, a defense attorney who used to be a sex-crimes prosecutor, said
that potential charges against Toback include indecent exposure and sexual
battery but that there is a limited period to prosecute such crimes, often one
to three years. Without third-party witnesses, he said, prosecutors may have a
tough case.

Defense attorneys could argue that "with late reporting and no other witnesses,
there is insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt," Gorin said.

The Manhattan district attorney's office is encouraging women to call its sex
crimes hotline in relation to Toback, who lives in New York. The office declined
to comment Tuesday on whether it had opened a criminal investigation.

The Times' investigation detailed a pattern of behavior over four decades in
which, his accusers said, Toback approached women in New York and L.A., boasting
of his movie credits and relationships with stars such as Robert Downey Jr.
Then, the women said, under the pretext of meetings framed as interviews or
auditions, he asked explicit questions about their sexual histories and often
proposed that they remove their clothes.

The encounters often ended, according to many of the women interviewed, with
Toback dry-humping them or masturbating in front of them, ejaculating into his
pants or onto their bodies.

Toback, 72, has denied the allegations to The Times, saying he had never met the
women or, if he had, the meeting was brief and he didn't remember them. He also
repeatedly said that for the last 22 years it had been "biologically impossible"
for him to do any of the things his accusers say he did.

Moore, an Academy Award-winning actress, joined the list of accusers Tuesday. On
Twitter, she said Toback approached her in the 1980s using the same approach
detailed in The Times investigation and wanted her to audition for him at his
apartment.

"I refused," the actress wrote. "One month later he did it again with the EXACT
same language. I said don't u remember u did this before?"

Toback declined to comment about Moore's story.

Other prominent women who described encounters with Toback included "Today" show
anchor Natalie Morales and Louise Post, guitarist and vocalist for the band
Veruca Salt.

Whispers about Toback's behavior had circulated in the entertainment world for
years but ramped up after movie mogul Harvey Weinstein was ousted this month
from the the studio he co-founded, Weinstein Co., amid allegations of sexual
harassment and rape.

Also on Tuesday, the Writers Guild of America, East, issued a statement
condemning the writer-director, who is a member.

"The allegations against James Toback are deeply troubling. They are both
extensive and consistent, and this sort of behavior cannot be tolerated," it
said.

The guild did not announce any steps to revoke Toback's membership. But it said
it is "conducting a thorough review of all the ways the union can fight to
ensure that our members can work in an atmosphere free from sexual harassment
and aggression."

The WGAE is the only major Hollywood guild to which Toback still belongs. In the
past 12 years, he fell out of both the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences and the Directors Guild of America after failing to pay his dues.

Toback earned an Oscar nod for his screenplay for 1991's "Bugsy" and has written
and directed a dozen films, including "The Pick-Up Artist," "Black and White"
and, most recently, "The Private Life of a Modern Woman."

--

Times staff writers Nardine Saad, Glenn Whipp and Richard Winton contributed to
this report.

lauren.raab@latimes.com

josh.rottenberg@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ACTRESS Julianne Moore has added herself to James Toback's list.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Carolyn Cole Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 25, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Beck expects more sex crime cases

BYLINE: Richard Winton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 388 words


Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said he expects his department -- which
already is handling more than two dozen allegations of sexual misconduct by
Hollywood figures -- to investigate even more.

"We anticipate the LAPD and other jurisdictions will receive even more
high-profile sex crime reports in the coming weeks and months," Beck said in an
email. "We encourage all victims of sexual assault to come forward to report
these crimes."

The LAPD has 28 open investigations related to Hollywood and media figures,
including mogul Harvey Weinstein and agent Tyler Grasham. The department also
has taken 37 other sex crimes reports that it has sent to other law enforcement
agencies, believing the alleged crimes occurred in those jurisdictions. All of
the accused have denied wrongdoing.

The LAPD has established five teams of two detectives each to exclusively
investigate allegations of sexual misconduct in Hollywood. The teams include
members of the cold-case unit because those detectives are experts in dealing
with old criminal allegations that lack physical evidence.

Beck said his department is committed to looking into all allegations made by
those who believe they were victimized.

"We recognize the significant trauma these victims suffer at the hands of the
predators who commit these heinous crimes," he said in the email. "Our
detectives are coordinating closely with our local prosecutors and other police
agencies including the NYPD. The high profile nature of these particular cases
has not changed our unyielding commitment to seek justice for ALL victims of
sexual assault."

Legal experts and law enforcement sources said building cases would take time.
Police likely will interview witnesses and accusers many times before bringing a
case to prosecutors.

Los Angeles County Dist. Atty. Jackie Lacey announced this month that she has
assigned a group of veteran sex crimes prosecutors to examine the cases and
"ensure a uniform approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any
case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."

Some allegations already have been closed. Actor Corey Feldman recently reported
to the LAPD that he was sexually abused by two adults as a child in the
industry. But police said the statute of limitations was up.

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday

Three charged with murder in connection with 2016 Long Beach death

BYLINE: Andrew Edwards; aedwards@scng.com @AndrewEdwardsLB on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 223 words

ABSTRACT

LBPD arrests three on suspicion of 2016 homicide

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County prosectors filed murder charges against three defendants in
connection with the May 2016 shooting death of a Wilmington man.

The Long Beach Police Department announced the charges late Wednesday. The
defendants were arraigned the same day, but police did not have information as
to whether the three people accused of the crime had entered pleas.

A representative of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office could not
be immediately reached for comment after business hours. Victor Eugene Alford,
37, died 10 days after being shot on May 15, 2016, near the intersection of 61st
Street and Orange Avenue.

The defendants:

o Devin Wright, 22, of Long Beach, charged with murder and shooting at an
inhabited dwelling in addition to the allegation that he committed crimes in
connection with gang activity. He's also charged with illegally firing a gun on
May 16 of last year in Los Angeles.

o Roosevelt Citizen, 23, of Compton, charged with murder and being a felon in
possession of a firearm in addition to allegations that he committed crimes in
relation to gang activity.

o Ellese Paschal, 25, of Compton, charged with murder.

Long Beach detectives arrested Paschal on Monday in Victorville. Wright and
Citizen were by then in custody on unrelated charges.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              May 29, 2017 Monday

Anonymous crime tips up; may reflect a lack of trust

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 899 words

ABSTRACT

Crime Stoppers can be solution to people who don't want to get involved with law
enforcement, but still offer tips to crimes.

FULL TEXT

Something illegal was going at the old warehouse on the 2900 block of Ana Street
in Compton.

An anonymous tip into Crime Stoppers last fall later confirmed it. Compton
Sheriff's investigators found 4,199 marijuana plants growing in neat rows under
dim lighting inside the building as well as 200 pounds of finished product worth
$7.5 million. Twelve people were arrested, all thanks to the nameless tipster.

Such calls, texts and emails to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers have
increased, and those who oversee the local program say they hope the numbers
continue to rise. It's especially important now, when witnesses

to non-emergency crimes don't seem to be calling their local law enforcement
agencies as much, said Natalie Salazar, executive director for Los Angeles
Regional Crime Stoppers.

"We're in a situation when people are very distrustful of law enforcement,"
Salazar said. "We'd like them to call law enforcement, but they don't."

After Ferguson

The distrust grew after what happened in Ferguson, Mo., in 2014, Salazar said.
That's when Darren Wilson, a white suburban St. Louis police officer fatally
shot Michael Brown, an unarmed, black 18-year-old, after a confrontation in
August in 2014. A grand jury later decided not to indict Wilson. The Aug. 9
shooting inflamed tensions in the predominantly black St. Louis suburb of
Ferguson that was patrolled by an overwhelmingly white police force.

Distrust of law enforcement has continued since, and now within the Latino
community. Police say they believe Latinos are afraid the Trump administration
is pressing state and local law enforcement officials to assist U.S. immigration
agents to deport them.

In March, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said at an event in East Los Angeles that
Latinos were reporting less crimes committed against them, according to
reporters there. He said reports of sexual assault have dropped 25 percent among
them since the beginning of 2017 compared with the same period last year.

"While there is no direct evidence that the decline is related to concerns
within the Hispanic community regarding immigration, the department believes
deportation fears may be preventing Hispanic members of the community from
reporting when they are victimized," the LAPD said in a statement to news
organizations in March.

But the regional Crime Stoppers tip lines have seen an increase. The number of
tips provided in the first quarter this year doubled from 2015.

Reward offered

What people don't know is that Crime Stoppers offers rewards of up to $1,000 if
an arrest is made, through a code system, Salazar noted.

"What we hope is we don't have to pay people to do the right thing," Salazar
said, but the money is there.

People who witness a non emergency crime can call the 24 hour/7 day a week  tip
line  at 1-800-222-8477, or go to www.lacrimestoppers.org or text a tip to a
mobile app: P3 Tips. Tips should include detailed information about the suspect,
such as his or her address, the vehicle, and the crime. The information is sent
to a second party command center in Texas. All information, except for the tip
itself, is encrypted. The tipster does not give his or her name, address, or any
other information, but is provided with a code number to use to claim a reward.

Reward amounts are based on the severity of the crime and whether an arrest is
made.

Unlike rewards offered through city and county law enforcement agencies, Crime
Stoppers rewards are not based on convictions and the tipster does not have to
appear in court. Also, the tipster can't be a victim of a crime.

To find out if an arrest has been made, the anonymous tipster contact Crime
Stoppers and provides the code number. If an arrest has been made, another code
number will be assigned to claim the reward. The code can be taken to any Nix
neighborhood lending business to redeem the cash.

Privately funded

The nonprofit Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers is funded by private donations
and annual fundraisers. Since it was launched in 2009, there have been 68,360
tips to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers. Those tips have led to 2,325
arrests, $30,598,583 in illegal drugs in the Los Angeles area, according to
officials. Authorities confiscated 169 weapons.

Since 2009 until April of this year, there were 125 rewards approved totalling
$32,835. Of those, only 10 were claimed resulting in $3,500 in cash.

Crime Stoppers began in Albuquerque in 1976 and has spawned chapters worldwide.
Glendale has had the program since 1994 and the Los Angeles Police Department
since 2008 but the regional effort now includes more than four dozen different
law enforcement agencies in 88 cities across Los Angeles County. The FBI and
U.S. Marshals have joined in as well.

Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. Joe Williams, who oversees the operations unit
at the Compton station, said detectives find the tips helpful.

"The majority of what they receive are narcotic tips," Williams said. "However,
one of our detectives received a tip on a shooting incident and there was an
arrest."

Salazar called Crime Stoppers a solution for those who want to help law
enforcement, without getting involved in the criminal justice system, but who
still want to be good citizens.

"This is a tool for the community," she added.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           September 19, 2017 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Police searching for suspect in vandalism at Sikh temple;
Man told witness he would slit his throat for filming act at Los Feliz site,
LAPD says.

BYLINE: James Queally

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 669 words


Los Angeles police have identified a suspect who investigators say wrote a pair
of hateful screeds on the outside of a Sikh temple in Los Feliz and threatened
to slit the throat of a witness who caught the incident on video.

Artyom Manukyan, 27, is suspected of using a black marker to write rambling
messages on the walls of the Hollywood Sikh Temple on Vermont Avenue about 2
p.m. Aug. 31, said Capt. Robert Long of the Los Angeles Police Department's
Major Crimes Division on Monday.

Manukyan was confronted by several people, including a man who filmed the
incident and posted it on Facebook, Long said. The man followed Manukyan for
several blocks before he brandished a straight razor, police said.

In a portion of the video, a man police identified as Manukyan can be seen
calmly walking away from the wall and ignoring someone who repeatedly shouts,
"Why did you write on it?"

Manukyan, who lives in the Glendale or Los Angeles area, has been arrested
before on suspicion of burglary, grand theft auto and making criminal threats,
Long said. At a news conference Monday, police asked for the public's help in
locating Manukyan after a weeks-long search failed to result in an arrest.

The messages, which are still visible on the Vermont Avenue side of the temple,
make little sense. One reads, "Nuke death ... Sikhs," with an obscenity in
between, while the other refers to a group of Sikhs stabbing the author when he
was a child.

Long said Manukyan's family has been cooperative, but the suspect's motives
remain unclear. He was not known to the temple's community, said Nirinjan Singh
Khalsa, executive director of the California Sikh Council.

"I am fully confident he designed this as a threat to the Sikh community and we
need to take him into custody to make sure that the community, not just the Sikh
community, but the community as a whole, is safer," Long said.

Manukyan could face vandalism charges with a hate crime enhancement, Long said.
He would also face criminal threats charges for brandishing a blade at the man
who filmed him, Long said. The case has been presented to the Los Angeles County
district attorney's office.

Long said Manukyan may be mentally ill, but it is not clear if he has been
formally diagnosed.

The incident comes after Los Angeles saw a slight jump in reported hate crimes
in 2016, an increase driven by crimes committed against the LGBTQ community,
according to an analysis released this year by the Center for the Study of Hate
and Extremism at Cal State San Bernardino. The 230 incidents reported to the
LAPD last year marked the highest number of hate crimes reported in the city
since 2008, the analysis showed.

Khalsa said he believes that attacks on the Sikh community have increased
recently as well. In the past, Sikhs have often been targeted for harassment by
individuals who mistake them for Muslims.

"I can tell you on behalf of the Sikh community that these incidents are up,
especially in the political climate we're in now. In the past hate crimes
against Sikhs were mistaken identity hate crimes," he said. "Unfortunately, now
what we're seeing is Sikhs are part of the other group in the mind of some
people that think hatred is patriotic."

There was an 11.5% surge in hate crimes across California in 2016, according to
the California Department of Justice.

Some civil liberties groups assert that anti-Muslim bigots and other racists
have been emboldened by President Trump's blistering rhetoric on immigration and
Islamic terrorism, contributing to a rise in hate crimes.

Last year, a number of faith centers in California received an ominous letter
that referred to Trump while calling for genocide against Muslims.

"Your day of reckoning has arrived," the letter read, according to the Council
on American-Islamic Relations' Greater Los Angeles chapter. "There's a new
sheriff in town -- President Donald Trump. He's going to cleanse America and
make it shine again. And, he's going to start with you Muslims."

--

james.queally@latimes.com

Twitter: @JamesQueallyLAT

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POLICE ARE asking the public for help locating Artyom Manukyan,
right, who is suspected of defacing the Hollywood Sikh Temple on Vermont Avenue.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Christina House Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

LETTERS SGVN THURSDAY

FULL TEXT

           Proposition 47 and crime

It is interesting the editorial board (Jan. 8) chose to lead with a discussion
of the national crime picture, and only later trotted out the claim that
"California's experience is in line with that of the rest of the country."
Disingenuous wordplay and deliberate conflating of time periods lie behind that
claim.

The facts are that property crime rates have increased each year since passage
of Proposition 47, while declining in all other states during the same period.
The editorial attempted to duck those facts by first including years before the
passage of Prop. 47 for discussion of the overall crime rate, and then lamely
arguing that even if there is an increasing crime rate it is still lower than
years past. What jumps out is the deliberate attempt to evade the central
question: Is property crime increasing because of Prop. 47? The attempt to evade
the question is its own answer.

Further, the argument that "incarceration is a costly venture that generally
fails to bring long-lasting benefits" is a generalization lacking any substance
or facts to back the claim. The decrease in the horrendous crime rates of the
1990s was a product of incarcerating the worst offenders for long periods.
Incarceration serves as punishment for victimizing others. Is the paper
suggesting the only legitimate role for incarceration is "behavior change"?

The editorial is emblematic of the talking points cited by the backers of Prop.
47: If the facts show a rising crime rate, attempt to shift the argument by
comparing the current rising crime rate to the horrible crime rates of earlier
decades.

Is the game plan to continue to ignore the reality Prop. 47 has unleashed
criminals until crime rates match the terrible levels of years past?

- Michele Hanisee, Los Angeles

The letter writer is president of the Association of Los Angeles Deputy District
Attorneys.


Hollywood and Trump

The Meryl Streep-Donald Trump dust-up is the latest example of Trump's mental
and personality problems. Obviously he has an impossibly huge ego. His reaction
to anything other than praise is troubling.

His responses are like a 5-year old's ("He started it!", "She called me a bad
name!"). I was often harassed by bullies. Trump is a poster boy for the
schoolyard bully. Why are such people like that? They are bullies because they
are actually weak and yellow-tailed cowards who lack a balanced mental capacity.

- Jerry Selmer, Arcadia

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

LETTERS SGVN THURSDAY

FULL TEXT

           Proposition 47 and crime

It is interesting the editorial board (Jan. 8) chose to lead with a discussion
of the national crime picture, and only later trotted out the claim that
"California's experience is in line with that of the rest of the country."
Disingenuous wordplay and deliberate conflating of time periods lie behind that
claim.

The facts are that property crime rates have increased each year since passage
of Proposition 47, while declining in all other states during the same period.
The editorial attempted to duck those facts by first including years before the
passage of Prop. 47 for discussion of the overall crime rate, and then lamely
arguing that even if there is an increasing crime rate it is still lower than
years past. What jumps out is the deliberate attempt to evade the central
question: Is property crime increasing because of Prop. 47? The attempt to evade
the question is its own answer.

Further, the argument that "incarceration is a costly venture that generally
fails to bring long-lasting benefits" is a generalization lacking any substance
or facts to back the claim. The decrease in the horrendous crime rates of the
1990s was a product of incarcerating the worst offenders for long periods.
Incarceration serves as punishment for victimizing others. Is the paper
suggesting the only legitimate role for incarceration is "behavior change"?

The editorial is emblematic of the talking points cited by the backers of Prop.
47: If the facts show a rising crime rate, attempt to shift the argument by
comparing the current rising crime rate to the horrible crime rates of earlier
decades.

Is the game plan to continue to ignore the reality Prop. 47 has unleashed
criminals until crime rates match the terrible levels of years past?

- Michele Hanisee, Los Angeles

The letter writer is president of the Association of Los Angeles Deputy District
Attorneys.


Hollywood and Trump

The Meryl Streep-Donald Trump dust-up is the latest example of Trump's mental
and personality problems. Obviously he has an impossibly huge ego. His reaction
to anything other than praise is troubling.

His responses are like a 5-year old's ("He started it!", "She called me a bad
name!"). I was often harassed by bullies. Trump is a poster boy for the
schoolyard bully. Why are such people like that? They are bullies because they
are actually weak and yellow-tailed cowards who lack a balanced mental capacity.

- Jerry Selmer, Arcadia

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

LETTERS SGVN THURSDAY

FULL TEXT

           Proposition 47 and crime

It is interesting the editorial board (Jan. 8) chose to lead with a discussion
of the national crime picture, and only later trotted out the claim that
"California's experience is in line with that of the rest of the country."
Disingenuous wordplay and deliberate conflating of time periods lie behind that
claim.

The facts are that property crime rates have increased each year since passage
of Proposition 47, while declining in all other states during the same period.
The editorial attempted to duck those facts by first including years before the
passage of Prop. 47 for discussion of the overall crime rate, and then lamely
arguing that even if there is an increasing crime rate it is still lower than
years past. What jumps out is the deliberate attempt to evade the central
question: Is property crime increasing because of Prop. 47? The attempt to evade
the question is its own answer.

Further, the argument that "incarceration is a costly venture that generally
fails to bring long-lasting benefits" is a generalization lacking any substance
or facts to back the claim. The decrease in the horrendous crime rates of the
1990s was a product of incarcerating the worst offenders for long periods.
Incarceration serves as punishment for victimizing others. Is the paper
suggesting the only legitimate role for incarceration is "behavior change"?

The editorial is emblematic of the talking points cited by the backers of Prop.
47: If the facts show a rising crime rate, attempt to shift the argument by
comparing the current rising crime rate to the horrible crime rates of earlier
decades.

Is the game plan to continue to ignore the reality Prop. 47 has unleashed
criminals until crime rates match the terrible levels of years past?

- Michele Hanisee, Los Angeles

The letter writer is president of the Association of Los Angeles Deputy District
Attorneys.


Hollywood and Trump

The Meryl Streep-Donald Trump dust-up is the latest example of Trump's mental
and personality problems. Obviously he has an impossibly huge ego. His reaction
to anything other than praise is troubling.

His responses are like a 5-year old's ("He started it!", "She called me a bad
name!"). I was often harassed by bullies. Trump is a poster boy for the
schoolyard bully. Why are such people like that? They are bullies because they
are actually weak and yellow-tailed cowards who lack a balanced mental capacity.

- Jerry Selmer, Arcadia

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

LETTERS SGVN THURSDAY

FULL TEXT

           Proposition 47 and crime

It is interesting the editorial board (Jan. 8) chose to lead with a discussion
of the national crime picture, and only later trotted out the claim that
"California's experience is in line with that of the rest of the country."
Disingenuous wordplay and deliberate conflating of time periods lie behind that
claim.

The facts are that property crime rates have increased each year since passage
of Proposition 47, while declining in all other states during the same period.
The editorial attempted to duck those facts by first including years before the
passage of Prop. 47 for discussion of the overall crime rate, and then lamely
arguing that even if there is an increasing crime rate it is still lower than
years past. What jumps out is the deliberate attempt to evade the central
question: Is property crime increasing because of Prop. 47? The attempt to evade
the question is its own answer.

Further, the argument that "incarceration is a costly venture that generally
fails to bring long-lasting benefits" is a generalization lacking any substance
or facts to back the claim. The decrease in the horrendous crime rates of the
1990s was a product of incarcerating the worst offenders for long periods.
Incarceration serves as punishment for victimizing others. Is the paper
suggesting the only legitimate role for incarceration is "behavior change"?

The editorial is emblematic of the talking points cited by the backers of Prop.
47: If the facts show a rising crime rate, attempt to shift the argument by
comparing the current rising crime rate to the horrible crime rates of earlier
decades.

Is the game plan to continue to ignore the reality Prop. 47 has unleashed
criminals until crime rates match the terrible levels of years past?

- Michele Hanisee, Los Angeles

The letter writer is president of the Association of Los Angeles Deputy District
Attorneys.


Hollywood and Trump

The Meryl Streep-Donald Trump dust-up is the latest example of Trump's mental
and personality problems. Obviously he has an impossibly huge ego. His reaction
to anything other than praise is troubling.

His responses are like a 5-year old's ("He started it!", "She called me a bad
name!"). I was often harassed by bullies. Trump is a poster boy for the
schoolyard bully. Why are such people like that? They are bullies because they
are actually weak and yellow-tailed cowards who lack a balanced mental capacity.

- Jerry Selmer, Arcadia

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

LETTERS SGVN THURSDAY

FULL TEXT

           Proposition 47 and crime

It is interesting the editorial board (Jan. 8) chose to lead with a discussion
of the national crime picture, and only later trotted out the claim that
"California's experience is in line with that of the rest of the country."
Disingenuous wordplay and deliberate conflating of time periods lie behind that
claim.

The facts are that property crime rates have increased each year since passage
of Proposition 47, while declining in all other states during the same period.
The editorial attempted to duck those facts by first including years before the
passage of Prop. 47 for discussion of the overall crime rate, and then lamely
arguing that even if there is an increasing crime rate it is still lower than
years past. What jumps out is the deliberate attempt to evade the central
question: Is property crime increasing because of Prop. 47? The attempt to evade
the question is its own answer.

Further, the argument that "incarceration is a costly venture that generally
fails to bring long-lasting benefits" is a generalization lacking any substance
or facts to back the claim. The decrease in the horrendous crime rates of the
1990s was a product of incarcerating the worst offenders for long periods.
Incarceration serves as punishment for victimizing others. Is the paper
suggesting the only legitimate role for incarceration is "behavior change"?

The editorial is emblematic of the talking points cited by the backers of Prop.
47: If the facts show a rising crime rate, attempt to shift the argument by
comparing the current rising crime rate to the horrible crime rates of earlier
decades.

Is the game plan to continue to ignore the reality Prop. 47 has unleashed
criminals until crime rates match the terrible levels of years past?

- Michele Hanisee, Los Angeles

The letter writer is president of the Association of Los Angeles Deputy District
Attorneys.


Hollywood and Trump

The Meryl Streep-Donald Trump dust-up is the latest example of Trump's mental
and personality problems. Obviously he has an impossibly huge ego. His reaction
to anything other than praise is troubling.

His responses are like a 5-year old's ("He started it!", "She called me a bad
name!"). I was often harassed by bullies. Trump is a poster boy for the
schoolyard bully. Why are such people like that? They are bullies because they
are actually weak and yellow-tailed cowards who lack a balanced mental capacity.

- Jerry Selmer, Arcadia

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

LETTERS SGVN THURSDAY

FULL TEXT

           Proposition 47 and crime

It is interesting the editorial board (Jan. 8) chose to lead with a discussion
of the national crime picture, and only later trotted out the claim that
"California's experience is in line with that of the rest of the country."
Disingenuous wordplay and deliberate conflating of time periods lie behind that
claim.

The facts are that property crime rates have increased each year since passage
of Proposition 47, while declining in all other states during the same period.
The editorial attempted to duck those facts by first including years before the
passage of Prop. 47 for discussion of the overall crime rate, and then lamely
arguing that even if there is an increasing crime rate it is still lower than
years past. What jumps out is the deliberate attempt to evade the central
question: Is property crime increasing because of Prop. 47? The attempt to evade
the question is its own answer.

Further, the argument that "incarceration is a costly venture that generally
fails to bring long-lasting benefits" is a generalization lacking any substance
or facts to back the claim. The decrease in the horrendous crime rates of the
1990s was a product of incarcerating the worst offenders for long periods.
Incarceration serves as punishment for victimizing others. Is the paper
suggesting the only legitimate role for incarceration is "behavior change"?

The editorial is emblematic of the talking points cited by the backers of Prop.
47: If the facts show a rising crime rate, attempt to shift the argument by
comparing the current rising crime rate to the horrible crime rates of earlier
decades.

Is the game plan to continue to ignore the reality Prop. 47 has unleashed
criminals until crime rates match the terrible levels of years past?

- Michele Hanisee, Los Angeles

The letter writer is president of the Association of Los Angeles Deputy District
Attorneys.


Hollywood and Trump

The Meryl Streep-Donald Trump dust-up is the latest example of Trump's mental
and personality problems. Obviously he has an impossibly huge ego. His reaction
to anything other than praise is troubling.

His responses are like a 5-year old's ("He started it!", "She called me a bad
name!"). I was often harassed by bullies. Trump is a poster boy for the
schoolyard bully. Why are such people like that? They are bullies because they
are actually weak and yellow-tailed cowards who lack a balanced mental capacity.

- Jerry Selmer, Arcadia

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 6, 2017 Thursday

Predictive policing tool helps LA cops curb crime;
PredPol software uses historical data to pinpoint crime hot spots in the city

BYLINE: Zaihan Mohamed Yusof

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 520 words


It is not exactly like the 2002 futuristic science-fiction film Minority Report,
in which police officers arrest potential criminals before they commit crimes.

Yet, some crime-fighting innovations like PredPol appear to give police the
upper hand in deterring crime, said Commander Jorge R. Rodriguez from the Los
Angeles Police Department (LAPD).

Comdr Rodriguez was a guest speaker yesterday at the Interpol World 2017
Congress.

He shared the LAPD's experience by presenting a case study highlighting the use
of PredPol, a predictive policing software that pinpoints crime hot spots based
on historical data like crime type, location and date.

Comdr Rodriguez, who heads eight police stations in Los Angeles, California, had
told The Straits Times a day earlier that predictive policing helps narrow the
likelihood of a crime occurring in areas depicted by a 500 feet by 500 feet box,
which works out to 2.3ha.

He said: "So, what we tell our officers as they're driving from Point A to Point
B through the city is know where these boxes are, and drive through them, so you
can provide a police presence."

First introduced to the LAPD in 2012, PredPol was used to track property crimes
like burglaries, theft from vehicles and motor vehicle thefts.

During his time as captain at three Los Angeles police divisions, property
crimes decreased, he said.

But he emphasised that PredPol should be used only to augment police operations.

Comdr Rodriguez, who became a police officer in 1987, said: "No matter what
technology you have or how advanced you get, you'll still need the human element
and cooperation from the community. Human intel cannot be replaced by anything
else."

While there are fears that predictive policing might infringe on civil
liberties, the greater concern now facing the LAPD is perhaps the increase in
violent crimes.

A Los Angeles Times report last December stated that violent- crime figures had
risen for a third straight year in the wake of homicides and gang-related
shootings which resulted in 290 people being killed in the city, though the
number is lower when compared with the 480 killed a decade ago.

Unfortunately, property-crime figures have gone up too.

Comdr Rodriguez attributed the rise to the decriminalisation of some offences.

He added: "A lot of crime (penalties) have been lowered from felonies to
misdemeanours. For property crimes, these individuals know the time they're
going to get is minimal when it comes to sentencing.

"Right now, the biggest problem we have is the drug problem."

With the legalisation of marijuana in states like Colorado, Oregon and
California, crime figures are expected to rise more, he said.

"You've got to support your (drug) habit (by committing crime)," said Comdr
Rodriguez, who thinks that marijuana is a gateway drug.

Over the years, he has met doctors, professional basketball players and
well-to-do individuals who had all started their drug abuse with marijuana.

He said: "Next thing you know, they're chasing a high and looking for a bigger
euphoric feeling."

They then progress to harder drugs like cocaine and methamphetamines, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Commander Jorge R. Rodriguez was a speaker at the Interpol World 2017
Congress.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2017 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Hate crimes up 15% last year;
Attacks on LGBT community fuel rise in 2016; upswing in violence a disturbing
trend, experts say

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com, @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 709 words

ABSTRACT

The city of Los Angeles experienced a 15 percent increase in hate crimes in
2016, according to data from the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at
Cal State San Bernardino. Hate crimes totalled 230 last year compared with 200
in 2015, which authors of the data summary attributed to a surge in violent
aggravated assaults, racially motivated crimes and crimes against the LGBGT
community.

FULL TEXT

The city of Los Angeles experienced a 15 percent increase in hate crimes in
2016, along with a significant spike in attacks against the gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender communities, according to data analyzed by the Center
for the Study of Hate and Extremism at Cal State San Bernardino.

The number of hate crimes rose from 200 in 2015 to 230 in 2016, the highest
number of hate crimes seen in Los Angeles since 2008, said Brian Levin, the
center's director. But it's well below the 559 hate crimes the city saw in 2001,
the year of the Sept. 11 terror attacks, which was the highest number this
century.

Levin said the surge in hate crimes is largely due to a spike in violent
aggravated assaults, racially and ethnically motivated crimes and crimes against
LGBT communities.

"Perhaps most disturbing is the surge in the most violent type of attacks, which
are aggravated assaults," Levin said. "Whether it's the increase in aggravated
assaults or criminal threats,

it appears that assailants are emboldened."

There was a nearly 64 percent increase in violent aggravated assaults from 22 to
36, according to Los Angeles Police Department data. Criminal threats rose 33
percent from 27 in 2015 to 36 last year.

There have been no homicides or rapes deemed to be hate crimes that were
reported in the city in the last two years.

The data also showed a 25 percent increase in hate crimes against the LGBT
community from 49 to 61. Hate crimes against transgender persons jumped from 2
in 2015 to 8 in 2016, according to the LAPD data.

"This is unfortunate because our study last year showed a significant increase
nationwide in anti-transgender attacks that would appear to be continuing into
the following year," Levin said.

Such incidents, and particularly the killing of four transgender black women in
the U.S. in the span of about a week in March of this year, are "worrisome," he
said.

There was also a 19 percent rise in racially and ethnically motivated crimes
last year over the previous year.

African-Americans were targeted the most, with 54 victims reported last year, up
from 48 the year before, according to the data.

Capt. William Hayes, commanding officer of LAPD's Robbery Homicide Division that
monitors hate crime incidents, noted that the most prevalent hate crime last
year was vandalism, which made up nearly a third of all reported hate crimes in
the city. That was followed by incidents of simple battery and then aggravated
assaults and criminal threats.

"Although the numbers are small, that someone would take out an act of violence
or crime against an individual just because of a particular belief" or their
gender or ethnicity "is always problematic," he said.

Part of the increase in reported hate crimes is likely due to people feeling
more comfortable to report them, Hayes said. He said that's a result of outreach
efforts that the department, other law enforcement agencies and nonprofits have
been doing.

Craig Lally, president of the Los Angeles Police Protective League union, said
police officers are "greatly concerned" about the 69.5 percent spike in violent
crime citywide since 2013.

"Every crime victim, regardless of motivation, deserves our protection and
justice," Lally said in a written statement. "That's why it's critical we get
more police officers in our neighborhoods who can help reduce crime and keep our
residents safe."

One bright spot in the LAPD data was that religious hate crimes against Muslims
and Jews declined last year. Those against Jews decreased from 46 to 37, while
those against Muslims decreased from 9 to 5.

"Each city is its own story," Levin explained. "While there are certain national
trends, neighborhood conflicts, serial offenders, gang or hate group activity
and demographic changes can influence numbers in a particular city."

Staff writer Wes Woods contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Hate crimes up 15% in 2016

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 709 words

ABSTRACT

The city of Los Angeles experienced a 15 percent increase in hate crimes in
2016, according to data from the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at
Cal State San Bernardino. Hate crimes totalled 230 last year compared with 200
in 2015, which authors of the data summary attributed to a surge in violent
aggravated assaults, racially motivated crimes and crimes against the LGBGT
community.

FULL TEXT

The city of Los Angeles experienced a 15 percent increase in hate crimes in
2016, along with a significant spike in attacks against the gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender communities, according to data analyzed by the Center
for the Study of Hate and Extremism at Cal State San Bernardino.

The number of hate crimes rose from 200 in 2015 to 230 in 2016, the highest
number of hate crimes seen in Los Angeles since 2008, said Brian Levin, the
center's director. But it's well below the 559 hate crimes the city saw in 2001,
the year of the Sept. 11 terror attacks, which was the highest number this
century.

Levin said the surge in hate crimes is largely due to a spike in violent
aggravated assaults, racially and ethnically motivated crimes and crimes against
LGBT communities.

"Perhaps most disturbing is the surge in the most violent type of attacks, which
are aggravated assaults," Levin said. "Whether it's the increase in aggravated
assaults or criminal threats, it appears that assailants are emboldened."

There was a nearly 64 percent increase in violent aggravated assaults from

22 to 36, according to Los Angeles Police Department data. Criminal threats rose
33 percent from 27 in 2015 to 36 last year.

There have been no homicides or rapes deemed to be hate crimes that were
reported in the city in the last two years.

The data also showed a 25 percent increase in hate crimes against the LGBT
community from 49 to 61. Hate crimes against transgender persons jumped from 2
in 2015 to 8 in 2016, according to the LAPD data.

"This is unfortunate because our study last year showed a significant increase
nationwide in anti-transgender attacks that would appear to be continuing into
the following year," Levin said.

Such incidents, and particularly the killing of four transgender black women in
the U.S. in the span of about a week in March of this year, are "worrisome," he
said.

There was also a 19 percent rise in racially and ethnically motivated crimes
last year over the previous year.

African-Americans were targeted the most, with 54 victims reported last year, up
from 48 the year before, according to the data.

Capt. William Hayes, commanding officer of LAPD's Robbery Homicide Division that
monitors hate crime incidents, noted that the most prevalent hate crime last
year was vandalism, which made up nearly a third of all reported hate crimes in
the city. That was followed by incidents of simple battery and then aggravated
assaults and criminal threats.

"Although the numbers are small, that someone would take out an act of violence
or crime against an individual just because of a particular belief" or their
gender or ethnicity "is always problematic," he said.

Part of the increase in reported hate crimes is likely due to people feeling
more comfortable to report them, Hayes said. He said that's a result of outreach
efforts that the department, other law enforcement agencies and nonprofits have
been doing.

Craig Lally, president of the Los Angeles Police Protective League union, said
police officers are "greatly concerned" about the 69.5 percent spike in violent
crime citywide since 2013.

"Every crime victim, regardless of motivation, deserves our protection and
justice," Lally said in a written statement. "That's why it's critical we get
more police officers in our neighborhoods who can help reduce crime and keep our
residents safe."

One bright spot in the LAPD data was that religious hate crimes against Muslims
and Jews declined last year. Those against Jews decreased from 46 to 37, while
those against Muslims decreased from 9 to 5.

"Each city is its own story," Levin explained. "While there are certain national
trends, neighborhood conflicts, serial offenders, gang or hate group activity
and demographic changes can influence numbers in a particular city."

Staff writer Wes Woods contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              May 29, 2017 Monday

Anonymous crime tips up; may reflect a lack of trust

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

ABSTRACT

Crime Stoppers can be solution to people who don't want to get involved with law
enforcement, but still offer tips to crimes.

FULL TEXT

Something illegal was going at the old warehouse on the 2900 block of Ana Street
in Compton.

An anonymous tip into Crime Stoppers last fall later confirmed it. Compton
Sheriff's investigators found 4,199 marijuana plants growing in neat rows under
dim lighting inside the building as well as 200 pounds of finished product worth
$7.5 million. Twelve people were arrested, all thanks to the nameless tipster.

Such calls, texts and emails to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers have
increased, and those who oversee the local program say they hope the numbers
continue to rise. It's especially important now, when witnesses

to non-emergency crimes don't seem to be calling their local law enforcement
agencies as much, said Natalie Salazar, executive director for Los Angeles
Regional Crime Stoppers.

"We're in a situation when people are very distrustful of law enforcement,"
Salazar said. "We'd like them to call law enforcement, but they don't."

The distrust grew after what happened in Ferguson, Mo., in 2014, Salazar said.
That's when Darren Wilson, a white suburban St. Louis police officer fatally
shot Michael Brown, an unarmed, black 18-year-old, after a confrontation in
August in 2014. A grand jury later decided not to indict Wilson. The Aug. 9
shooting inflamed tensions in the predominantly black St. Louis suburb of
Ferguson that was patrolled by an overwhelmingly white police force.

Distrust of law enforcement has continued since, and now within the Latino
community. Police say they believe Latinos are afraid the Trump administration
is pressing state and local law enforcement officials to assist U.S. immigration
agents to deport them.

In March, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said at an event in East Los Angeles that
Latinos were reporting less crimes committed against them, according to
reporters there. He said reports of sexual assault have dropped 25 percent among
them since the beginning of 2017 compared with the same period last year.

"While there is no direct evidence that the decline is related to concerns
within the Hispanic community regarding immigration, the department believes
deportation fears may be preventing Hispanic members of the community from
reporting when they are victimized," the LAPD said in a statement to news
organizations in March.

But the regional Crime Stoppers tip lines have seen an increase. The number of
tips provided in the first quarter this year doubled from 2015, or 53 percent
more.

What people don't know is that Crime Stoppers offers rewards of up to $1,000 if
an arrest is made, through a code system, Salazar noted.

"What we hope is we don't have to pay people to do the right thing," Salazar
said, but the money is there.

People who witness a non emergency crime can call the 24 hour/7 day a week  tip
line  at 1-800-222-8477, or go to www.lacrimestoppers.org or text a tip to a
mobile app: P3 Tips. Tips should include detailed information about the suspect,
such as his or her address, the vehicle, and the crime. The information is sent
to a second party command center in Texas. All information, except for the tip
itself, is encrypted. The tipster does not give his or her name, address, or any
other information, but is provided with a code number to use to claim a reward.

Reward amounts are based on the severity of the crime and if an arrest made.
Unlike rewards offered through city and county law enforcement agencies, Crime
Stoppers rewards are not based on convictions and the tipster does not have to
appear in court. Also, the tipster can't be a victim of a crime.

To find out if an arrest has been made, the anonymous tipster contact Crime
Stoppers and provides the code number. If an arrest has been made, another code
number will be assigned to claim the reward. The code can be taken to any Nix
neighborhood lending business to redeem the cash.

The nonprofit Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers is funded by private donations
and annual fundraisers. Since it was launched in 2009, there have been 68,360
tips to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers. Those tips have led to 2,325
arrests, $30,598,583 in illegal drugs in the Los Angeles area, according to
officials. Authorities confiscated 169 weapons.

Since 2009 until April of this year, there were 125 rewards approved totalling
$32,835. Of those, only 10 were claimed resulting in $3,500 in cash.

Crime Stoppers began in Albuquerque in 1976 and has spawned chapters worldwide.
Glendale has had the program since 1994 and the Los Angeles Police Department
since 2008 but the regional effort now includes more than four dozen different
law enforcement agencies in 88 cities across Los Angeles County. The FBI and
U.S. Marshals have joined in as well.

Los Angeles County Sheriff's Lt. Joe Williams, who oversees the operations unit
at the Compton station, said detectives find the tips helpful.

"The majority of what they receive are narcotic tips," Williams said. "However,
one of our detectives received a tip on a shooting incident and there was an
arrest."

Salazar called Crime Stoppers a solution for those who want to help law
enforcement, without getting involved in the criminal justice system, but who
still want to be good citizens.

"This is a tool for the community," she added.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

Police arrest 3 in deadly 1993 fire

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 661 words


LOS ANGELES >> Prosecutors plan to file 12 counts of capital murder with special
circumstance allegations today against three people arrested in connection with
a 1993 fire at a Westlake apartment building that killed seven children and
three adults, including two pregnant women, according to District Attorney
Jackie Lacey.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said detectives "just would not let this
case go," calling the alleged crime "the most horrific case of arson in the city
of Los Angeles history," during a news conference with Lacey at police
headquarters.

Alleged gang members Ramiro Alberto Valerio, 43, and Joseph Alberto Monge, 41,
were arrested Friday and Johanna Lopez, 51, was charged in 2011 with murder
related to the fire and was already in custody.

Robbery-homicide investigators have been following leads for years and have
known for nearly five years that Valerio and Monge were involved, according to
LAPD Capt. William Hayes.

The key to making a case stick was finding witnesses willing to testify against
suspects like Valerio, who police said was the shot caller for the gang.

The early 1990s were the "absolute zenith of violent crime in Los Angeles," Beck
said. "In that kind of atmosphere, witnesses don't come forward."

The gang had a stranglehold on the neighborhood at the time of the fire, Lacey
said, but witnesses were now willing to talk.

"In most cases, time can hinder a prosecution ... in this case time was on our
side," Lacey told reporters.

A fourth suspect, who police declined to name, is "out of the jurisdiction,"
according to the police chief, adding that the LAPD was coordinating with other
agencies to make an arrest.

Beck said the gang was "engaged in large-scale narcotics sales" at the apartment
and when a new manager was hired in 1993, she "tried to do the right thing" and
put an end to drug dealing on the property.

The gang retaliated by intentionally setting the fire that took 12 lives, police
and prosecutors said.

Two pregnant women were trapped on the third floor of the 69-unit building at
330 S. Burlington Ave. and unable to save themselves or their children, Lacey
said.

The mass murder "weighed on the minds of prosecutors for the last 24 years," the
district attorney told reporters, adding that her office is "finally seeking
justice."

More than 100 residents were displaced, and more than 40 were injured. The seven
children who died ranged in age from 15 months to 11 years.

Lopez was first charged with murder related to the fire in 2011 and murder
charges will be refiled against her. Lacey and her team declined to say whether
she was expected to testify at trial or whether all the suspects would face
identical charges.

Lopez has been held without bail since 2011 and is subject to an immigration
hold, according to records on the Sheriff's Department website.

Valerio, a Palmdale resident, is being held on $25 million bail. Bail was set at
$2 million for Monge, who is from Montebello, according to Beck.

The special circumstances allegations against some or all of the three suspects
are expected to include multiple murder and murder for financial gain, according
to the District Attorney's Office. Gang allegations are also expected.

Lacey's office will decide later whether to seek the death penalty.

In 1993, the building was a way station for immigrants, some of whom lived a
dozen or more to an apartment to stretch their incomes from low-wage jobs. The
fire's rapid spread was aided by the crowded conditions, with personal
belongings and furniture crammed into small spaces, fire officials said at the
time.

After two suspicious fires on the premises the previous month, inspectors had
noted that fire doors were propped open and alarms were not functioning
properly.

They required the owner to conduct fire patrols every half-hour. But the patrols
never happened, and the fire doors were still open during the deadly blaze. The
tragedy prompted widespread calls for reform in city fire inspections.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

Police arrest 3 in deadly 1993 fire

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 661 words


LOS ANGELES >> Prosecutors plan to file 12 counts of capital murder with special
circumstance allegations today against three people arrested in connection with
a 1993 fire at a Westlake apartment building that killed seven children and
three adults, including two pregnant women, according to District Attorney
Jackie Lacey.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said detectives "just would not let this
case go," calling the alleged crime "the most horrific case of arson in the city
of Los Angeles history," during a news conference with Lacey at police
headquarters.

Alleged gang members Ramiro Alberto Valerio, 43, and Joseph Alberto Monge, 41,
were arrested Friday and Johanna Lopez, 51, was charged in 2011 with murder
related to the fire and was already in custody.

Robbery-homicide investigators have been following leads for years and have
known for nearly five years that Valerio and Monge were involved, according to
LAPD Capt. William Hayes.

The key to making a case stick was finding witnesses willing to testify against
suspects like Valerio, who police said was the shot caller for the gang.

The early 1990s were the "absolute zenith of violent crime in Los Angeles," Beck
said. "In that kind of atmosphere, witnesses don't come forward."

The gang had a stranglehold on the neighborhood at the time of the fire, Lacey
said, but witnesses were now willing to talk.

"In most cases, time can hinder a prosecution ... in this case time was on our
side," Lacey told reporters.

A fourth suspect, who police declined to name, is "out of the jurisdiction,"
according to the police chief, adding that the LAPD was coordinating with other
agencies to make an arrest.

Beck said the gang was "engaged in large-scale narcotics sales" at the apartment
and when a new manager was hired in 1993, she "tried to do the right thing" and
put an end to drug dealing on the property.

The gang retaliated by intentionally setting the fire that took 12 lives, police
and prosecutors said.

Two pregnant women were trapped on the third floor of the 69-unit building at
330 S. Burlington Ave. and unable to save themselves or their children, Lacey
said.

The mass murder "weighed on the minds of prosecutors for the last 24 years," the
district attorney told reporters, adding that her office is "finally seeking
justice."

More than 100 residents were displaced, and more than 40 were injured. The seven
children who died ranged in age from 15 months to 11 years.

Lopez was first charged with murder related to the fire in 2011 and murder
charges will be refiled against her. Lacey and her team declined to say whether
she was expected to testify at trial or whether all the suspects would face
identical charges.

Lopez has been held without bail since 2011 and is subject to an immigration
hold, according to records on the Sheriff's Department website.

Valerio, a Palmdale resident, is being held on $25 million bail. Bail was set at
$2 million for Monge, who is from Montebello, according to Beck.

The special circumstances allegations against some or all of the three suspects
are expected to include multiple murder and murder for financial gain, according
to the District Attorney's Office. Gang allegations are also expected.

Lacey's office will decide later whether to seek the death penalty.

In 1993, the building was a way station for immigrants, some of whom lived a
dozen or more to an apartment to stretch their incomes from low-wage jobs. The
fire's rapid spread was aided by the crowded conditions, with personal
belongings and furniture crammed into small spaces, fire officials said at the
time.

After two suspicious fires on the premises the previous month, inspectors had
noted that fire doors were propped open and alarms were not functioning
properly.

They required the owner to conduct fire patrols every half-hour. But the patrols
never happened, and the fire doors were still open during the deadly blaze. The
tragedy prompted widespread calls for reform in city fire inspections.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Los Angeles

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 328  words


LOS ANGELES - The police chief of Los Angeles, a city that is half Latino, found
himself in the middle of the national immigration debate on Wednesday after
saying there's a correlation between the Trump administration's call for stiffer
immigration policies and a drop in the number of Hispanics reporting sexual
abuse and domestic violence.

"Imagine your sister, your mother, not reporting a sexual assault for fear that
their family will be torn apart," LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said Tuesday.

Since the beginning of this year, sexual assaults reported by Latinos in Los
Angeles have dropped 25 percent, and domestic violence reports by Latinos have
decreased by 10 percent compared to the same period last year.

Crime statistics show there were 164 sexual assaults reported by Latinos in the
first two months of 2016, compared to 123 in the first two months of 2017. There
was also a decrease of 118 reports of domestic violence during the same periods
among Latinos.

Beck said there was a "strong correlation" between the timing of the decreased
reporting and fears about President Donald Trump's efforts to crack down on the
estimated 11 million immigrants living illegally in the U.S.

However, Jessica Vaughan of the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies,
which lobbies for less immigration to the U.S., said it is "extremely
speculative" to draw a connection between the drop in crime reporting and fears
regarding accelerated efforts to round up and deport immigrants. She questioned
Beck's reasoning for announcing the figures.

"This seems to be somehow politically motivated to try to get people to think
increased enforcement is causing problems in the community," Vaughan said. "I
think it is really a stretch to connect this decline with perceptions of
increased immigration enforcement."

Los Angeles breaks down its crime statistics by the ethnicity of victims, but
some other large-city police departments do not keep the same types of reports.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday

L.A. County Crime Stoppers sees rise in anonymous tips;
At a time of distrust of law enforcement, information hotlines help gather clues

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 803 words

ABSTRACT

Crime Stoppers can be solution to people who don't want to get involved with law
enforcement, but still offer tips to crimes.

FULL TEXT

Something illegal was going on at the old warehouse on the 2900 block of Ana
Street in Compton.

An anonymous tip to Crime Stoppers last fall later confirmed it. Compton
Sheriff's investigators found 4,199 marijuana plants growing in neat rows under
dim lighting inside the building as well as 200 pounds of finished product worth
$7.5 million. Twelve people were arrested, all thanks to the nameless tipster.
Such calls, texts and emails to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers have
increased, and those who oversee the local program say they hope the numbers
continue to rise. It's especially important now, when witnesses to non-emergency
crimes don't seem to be calling their local law enforcement agencies as much,
said Natalie Salazar, executive director for Los Angeles Regional Crime
Stoppers.

"We're in a situation when people are very distrustful of law enforcement,"
Salazar said. "We'd like them to call law enforcement, but they don't."

The distrust grew after what happened in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014,
Salazar said. That's when Darren Wilson, a white suburban St. Louis police
officer, fatally shot Michael Brown, an unarmed, black 18-year-old, after a
confrontation. A grand jury later decided not to indict Wilson. The Aug. 9
shooting inflamed tensions in the predominantly black St. Louis suburb of
Ferguson that was patrolled by an overwhelmingly white police force.

Distrust of law enforcement has continued since, and now within the Latino
community. Police say they believe Latinos are afraid the Trump administration
is pressing state and local law enforcement officials to assist U.S. immigration
agents to deport them.

In March, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said at an event in East Los Angeles that
Latinos were reporting fewer crimes committed against them, according to
reporters there. He said reports of sexual assault have dropped 25 percent among
them since the beginning of 2017 compared with the same period last year.

"While there is no direct evidence that the decline is related to concerns
within the Hispanic community regarding immigration, the department believes
deportation fears may be preventing Hispanic members of the community from
reporting when they are victimized," the LAPD said in a statement to news
organizations in March.

But the regional Crime Stoppers tip lines have seen an increase. The number of
tips provided in the first quarter this year doubled from 2015, or 53 percent
more.

What people don't know is that Crime Stoppers offers rewards of up to $1,000 if
an arrest is made, through a code system, Salazar noted.

"What we hope is we don't have to pay people to do the right thing," Salazar
said, but the money is there.

People who witness a non-emergency crime can call the 24 hour/7 day a week  tip
line  at 1-800-222-8477, or go to www.lacrimestoppers.org or text a tip to a
mobile app: P3 Tips. Tips should include detailed information about the suspect,
such as his or her address, the vehicle, and the crime. The information is sent
to a second party command center in Texas. All information, except for the tip
itself, is encrypted. The tipster does not give his or her name, address, or any
other information, but is provided with a code number to use to claim a reward.

Reward amounts are based on the severity of the crime and if an arrest is made.
Unlike rewards offered through city and county law enforcement agencies, Crime
Stoppers rewards are not based on convictions and the tipster does not have to
appear in court. Also, the tipster can't be a victim of a crime.

To find out if an arrest has been made, the anonymous tipster contacts Crime
Stoppers and provides the code number. If an arrest has been made, another code
number will be assigned to claim the reward. The code can be taken to any Nix
neighborhood lending business to redeem for cash.

The nonprofit Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers is funded by private donations
and annual fundraisers. Since it was launched in 2009, there have been 68,360
tips to the Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers. Those tips have led to 2,325
arrests and more than $30 million in illegal drugs seized in the Los Angeles
area, according to officials. Authorities confiscated 169 weapons.

Since 2009 until April of this year, there were 125 rewards approved totalling
$32,835. Of those, only 10 were claimed resulting in $3,500 in cash.

Crime Stoppers began in Albuquerque in 1976 and has spawned chapters worldwide.
Glendale has had the program since 1994 and the LAPS since 2008 but the regional
effort now includes more than four dozen different law enforcement agencies in
88 cities across Los Angeles County. The FBI and U.S. Marshals have joined in as
well.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Hundreds pack town hall on Valley crime

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew; dbartholomew@scng.com @DN_DanaBart on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 471 words

ABSTRACT

Town Hall

FULL TEXT

WOODLAND HILLS >> A town hall about crime in the west San Fernando Valley drew a
packed house Tuesday night in Woodland Hills.

The two-hour public safety meeting, hosted by Councilman Bob Blumenfield,
featured half a dozen high-ranking officials from the Los Angeles Police
Department's Valley Bureau to discuss public safety and crime prevention.

The meeting at Taft Charter High School drew roughly 500 residents who packed
the school's auditorium to hear the latest trends in Valley crime - and what
residents can do to protect their neighborhoods.

"(It's) how we as a community can come together to help the police," said
Blumenfield, whose District 3 represents the southwest Valley. "Community
partnership is the key to reducing crime."

The Valley had 58,000 crimes in 2002 before falling to 32,000 crimes in 2014,
then inched up to 39,000 crimes last year, police said.

While violent crime across Los Angeles rose for a third straight year in 2016,
spikes in homicides, robberies and property crimes across the Valley outpaced
the city as a whole, according to LAPD crime statistics released early this
year.

Robberies across the Valley last year rose 33 percent from 2015 - from 1,571 to
2,085 - compared with 14 percent citywide. The number of Valley homicides
climbed 14 percent with 65 murders, compared with an increase of nearly 4
percent with 294 murders across Los Angeles.

But now crime may be down in 2017, police said, thanks to rigorous enforcement
and the increasingly watchful eyes of neighbors.

"You are being policed very well," said Deputy Chief John A. Sherman, a Reseda
native who was appointed last month to command Valley Bureau. "But we can't
solve crime alone: handcuffs and jail cells won't do it."

He added that residents can play an important role in crime prevention.

"The next mobilization will take place right here," Sherman said.

Police advised residents to get to know their neighbors, join Neighborhood Watch
groups, and contact LAPD senior lead officers, and install camera doorbells and
other measures to thwart crime.

In LAPD's Topanga Division there were an average 130 crimes a week last year,
said Capt. Maureen Ryan. Now there are less than 100 crimes per week.

In the West Valley Division, based in Reseda, violent crimes were down .5
percent, robberies were down 6 percent, with burglaries having dropped 4.5
percent, said Capt. Natalie Cortez.  Property crimes, meanwhile, were up 5.5
percent, largely because of a surge in auto thefts.

Residents questioned police about everything from an increase in homeless
encampments to criminal reform laws and traffic.

"It's pretty scary," said Madeline Taylor, who has lived nearly two decade in
the Dumetz Road area of Woodland Hills. "I have never seen so much, or heard of
so much, criminal activity in our neighborhood."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 16, 2017 Thursday

Girl in sucker-punch case found not guilty by L.A. Teen Court

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 713 words

ABSTRACT

PEISNER-TEENCOURT

FULL TEXT

A teenager who was arrested last year for conspiracy related to the sucker-punch
assault of a 14-year-old West Hills boy has been found not guilty by a jury of
her peers and a judicial officer in Los Angeles County's Teen Court program,
according to police.

Two juveniles were arrested after Jordan Peisner sustained an unprovoked punch
to the head by a teen he did not know outside a Wendy's in West Hills on Dec. 2.
Jordan, a freshman at El Camino Real Charter High School in Woodland Hills,
sustained a skull fracture, a blood clot on his brain, a concussion and ruptured
eardrum.

The boy who allegedly threw the punch, who was arrested for felony assault the
same day, has an arraignment scheduled in Juvenile Court on March 23, according
to Jordan's father. The case of the second teen, who Los Angeles police said was
arrested for felony conspiracy, was referred to Los Angeles Teen Court, likely
by the L.A. County District Attorney's Office or the county

Probation Department.

"She went through the (Teen Court) process and they found her not guilty,"
Detective Angela Stewart of LAPD's Topanga Division said Wednesday, adding the
family had hired an attorney. Stewart could not say when that decision was made.

The Los Angeles Teen Court is an "early intervention restorative justice
program" that gives selected juvenile offenders of "non serious crimes" a chance
to be questioned, judged and sentenced by a jury of their peers, according to
the Los Angeles Superior Court. The Teen Court jury makes recommendations to the
judicial officer, who is a judge or court commissioner, who then decides the
conditions of probation he or she feels are appropriate.

Generally speaking, the District Attorney's office has the authority to
downgrade a felony charge to a misdemeanor, which would then make it eligible
for Teen Court, according to a spokeswoman with the county's probation office.

As of this school year, there were 38 active Teen Courts in L.A. County,
including at Canoga Park High School, Van Nuys High School, Taft High School,
Northridge High School and San Fernando High School, according to a fact sheet.

Jordan's father Ed Peisner said Wednesday he was "a little in shock" to hear
that the girl was found "not guilty" by the Teen Court.

"It was my understanding there was enough (for police) to arrest her in the
beginning," he said. "I don't know from Point A to Point B what happened but I
hope someday justice will be served."

The Los Angeles Superior Court involvement with Teen Court began in 1992 at
Wilson High School in Los Angeles. It is designed to provide an alternative to
Juvenile Court for those who commit a crime for the first time in the hope that
the offender will not commit more serious crimes in the future, according to Los
Angeles Superior Court.

The lawyer for the teen girl, who has not been identified because she's a minor,
could not be located Wednesday.

Ed Peisner said he was "disappointed" that the girl's case, which was connected
to the life-threatening injuries of his son, was referred to a Teen Court rather
than handled by the District Attorney's office.

"I'm a compassionate person and I believe in helping people but I also believe
in holding people accountable for their actions," he said. "I don't think there
is any accountability here."

When a Teen Court finds a juvenile guilty, conditions of probation can include
imposition of a curfew, community service hours, counseling and parenting
classes; orders to not associate with certain people or groups; orders to stay
away from certain individuals or locations; writing a letter of apology, writing
an essay on a certain topic; orders to attend Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics
Anonymous meetings and agree to drug testing, the Superior Court spokeswoman
said.  It can also include orders related to academics, mentoring and after
school programs; and participating in the District Attorney's Juvenile Offender
Intervention Network.

While Ed Peisner said his hands are tied when it comes to the criminal cases, he
noted that "we are still pursuing a civil action."

In the meantime, the father said he's instead focusing his efforts on launching
their organization #JordanStrong, which aims to prevent physical, emotional and
cyberbullying.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           August 23, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

L.A. MAY JOIN S.F. IN LEGAL FIGHT;
City asks judge to add it to suit over Trump threats to deny funds to 'sanctuary
cities.'

BYLINE: Joel Rubin

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 838 words


The city of Los Angeles sought Tuesday to join a legal battle against President
Trump's Justice Department over conditions requiring police to cooperate with
immigration enforcement officials in order to qualify for anti-crime funding.

City Atty. Mike Feuer filed papers in U.S. District Court asking the judge
hearing a lawsuit brought this month by San Francisco city officials to let Los
Angeles quickly into that fray.

In its lawsuit, San Francisco is seeking to strike down rules U.S. Atty. Gen.
Jeff Sessions announced last month for Justice Department funds that have long
been disbursed to local law enforcement agencies to bolster efforts to fight
violent and gang crime. At the time, Sessions said police agencies that want a
piece of future funding would have to first demonstrate that they are willing to
help immigration officials identify and detain people in local jails who are
suspected of being in the country illegally.

Specifically, Sessions said police would be required to allow Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officers access to local jails and to notify ICE 48 hours
before releasing from their jails anyone tagged by federal authorities as
possibly being in the country illegally.

The conditions imposed by Sessions, Feuer argued, violate the separation of
powers laid out in the U.S. Constitution, which give Congress, not the executive
branch, control of government purse strings. Feuer said the money has been used
in Los Angeles largely to fund a long-running city program in which police, city
attorneys, the district attorney's office and probation officials collaborate to
target the city's worst gang neighborhoods.

"The Trump administration is overreaching, and we're going to fight it," Feuer
said at a City Hall news conference. "We're going to fight because the
administration would put Los Angeles to the untenable choice of risking a key
public safety grant or making the LAPD an arm of federal immigration policy."

The Justice Department awards the grant money to states and cities annually. In
the past, the amount cities receive has been calculated based on population and
crime statistics. In each of the last 20 years, Los Angeles has received more
than $1 million, including $1.8 million for the 2016 fiscal year, Feuer said.
This year, L.A. would be eligible to receive $1.9 million, to be shared by the
city and the county, according to city figures.

Feuer wrote in court papers that it was important for Los Angeles to join the
San Francisco case to "permit the court to consider DOJ's conditions in light of
differing local policies."

He wrote that San Francisco, for example, has a policy generally prohibiting
city officials from even responding to an ICE request for notification of an
inmate's release, but no such policy exists in Los Angeles. Instead, Feuer said,
his objection to the notification requirement was rooted in concerns that it
would force the LAPD to prolong the time inmates would otherwise remain behind
bars, which several courts have ruled unconstitutional.

Regarding access to jails, LAPD's policy does not allow ICE unfettered access,
although immigration officers can interview an inmate who consents to it.

In his comments Tuesday, Feuer presented the new funding conditions as a threat
to public safety in Los Angeles. The LAPD restricts its cooperation with ICE, he
said, as part of a broader effort to build trust with the city's immigrant
communities and assure people living here illegally that they will not be at
risk of being deported if they come forward to report a crime as a victim or
witness.

Justice Department officials fired back, criticizing the move by Los Angeles and
arguing that the funding requirements would, in fact, increase safety in the
city.

Citing an increase in crime rates in Los Angeles in recent years, department
spokesman Devin O'Malley said in a statement, "It is so baffling that the city
would challenge policies designed to keep residents of L.A. safer.... Reversing
sanctuary-city policies is about more than just enforcing federal immigration
law by detaining criminals here illegally -- it's about reestablishing a culture
of law and order, where crimes are punished and people are deterred from
committing them."

The legal challenge is the latest response to threats by the Trump
administration to cut funds to so-called sanctuary cities. Chicago fired the
first volley over the current funding requirements when it filed a lawsuit
earlier this month. Then last week California Atty. Gen. Xavier Becerra
announced the state was also filing a lawsuit in conjunction with San
Francisco's.

In an earlier challenge to the president's executive order on immigration, San
Francisco and Santa Clara County won a nationwide injunction that blocked the
administration from withholding all sources of federal funding -- not just law
enforcement grants controlled by the Justice Department -- to cities it deemed
to be sanctuaries. Seattle, along with others, followed with similar lawsuits.

--

joel.rubin@latimes.com

Twitter: @joelrubin

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "THE TRUMP administration is overreaching, and we're going to
fight it," City Atty. Mike Feuer says.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mel Melcon Los Angeles
Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            October 20, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

LAPD opens Weinstein probe after rape allegation;
Italian model-actress adds to accusations against movie mogul.

BYLINE: Richard Winton, Victoria Kim

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Business Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words


An Italian model-actress met with Los Angeles police detectives for more than
two hours Thursday morning, providing a detailed account of new allegations that
movie mogul Harvey Weinstein sexually assaulted her at a hotel in 2013.

She is the sixth woman to accuse Weinstein of rape or forcible sex acts. Los
Angeles Police Capt. Billy Hayes confirmed that the department has launched an
investigation into the matter.

It is the first case related to Weinstein to be reported in Southern California.
New York police already have two active sex crime probes and London's
Metropolitan Police is investigating allegations made by three women.

The new allegation could be legally troubling for Weinstein because it falls
within the 10-year statute of limitations for the crime that existed at the time
of the alleged incident, legal experts say.

It could "open the door to a prosecution if the evidence exists," said defense
attorney Dmitry Gorin, a former L.A. County sex crimes prosecutor. Until now,
most of the allegations against Weinstein that could lead to criminal charges
concerned incidents that are more than a decade old.

Weinstein has "unequivocally denied" allegations of nonconsensual sex, according
to his representative, Sallie Hofmeister. On the latest allegation, she said: "I
can't respond to some anonymous complaint."

The 38-year-old woman, who has asked not to be named because she is fearful of
retaliation and concerned about protecting her children's privacy, first
contacted police Tuesday, through her attorney, David Ring of the law firm
Taylor Ring. Two detectives from the Los Angeles Police Department's
Robbery-Homicide Division's rape special section took her statement Thursday.

She told the Los Angeles Times that the incident occurred at Mr. C Beverly Hills
hotel after she attended the 8th annual Los Angeles, Italia Film, Fashion and
Art Fest in February 2013. She had previously met Weinstein once, briefly, in
Rome after being introduced by an acquaintance. At that time, he invited her up
to his hotel room, but she said she declined. She said they spoke briefly at the
film festival, but he didn't appear to recall meeting her before.

Later, he showed up "without warning" after midnight in the lobby of her hotel,
which she said surprised her because she didn't tell him where she was staying.
He asked to come up to her room. She said she told him no and offered to meet
him downstairs, but soon, he was knocking on her door.

"He ... bullied his way into my hotel room, saying, 'I'm not going to [have sex
with] you, I just want to talk,' " the woman told The Times. "Once inside, he
asked me questions about myself, but soon became very aggressive and demanding
and kept asking to see me naked."

She said Weinstein repeatedly bragged about his power and influence and told her
not to fight him. She tried to show him pictures of her children and her mother,
who was undergoing chemotherapy at the time, as she cried and begged him to go
away, she said.

"He grabbed me by the hair and forced me to do something I did not want to do,"
she said. "He then dragged me to the bathroom and forcibly raped me."

When he left, she said, he told her she was very beautiful, and that she could
work in Hollywood.

"He acted like nothing happened," the woman said. "I barely knew this man. It
was the most demeaning thing ever done to me by far. It sickens me still.... He
made me feel like an object, like nothing, with all his power."

After the incident, he invited her to parties at his house. She did not attend.

Throughout the interview with The Times on Thursday, she was calm and collected
-- though her voice quivered when she spoke of her three children. It is because
of them, she said, that she decided to report Weinstein to the police.

At the time, she said, she was too afraid, but did tell a priest, a friend and a
nanny what had happened.

"I feel responsible that I didn't talk for years, I feel responsible that I
didn't react that night and I didn't call the police, I feel responsible that I
wasn't brave enough," she said. "All these years I've been thinking why I didn't
call the police immediately. I regret that I opened the [hotel] door."

About a week before the Weinstein story broke, her high-school-aged daughter
told her about how she had been experiencing mistreatment from a boy for seven
months. To comfort her, she told her about the incident with Weinstein and urged
her to report what was going on.

"If I need to do that, why don't you stand up for yourself?" her daughter said,
she recounted. And she said her son told her: "You just need to be strong, Mom."

Her attorney, Ring, one of L.A.'s top sex-abuse attorneys, said the woman is
fully cooperating with the LAPD.

The model-actress, who was 34 at the time, is well-known in Italy, where she
appeared on the cover of Italian Vogue and as an actress in Italian films.

The woman was living in Italy with her three children at the time of the alleged
attack, but has since moved to Southern California.

The allegations could also bolster a New York police investigation into a report
that Weinstein forced an aspiring actress in 2004 to perform oral sex on him, as
the L.A. case involves similar acts. Lucia Evans told the New Yorker that
Weinstein assaulted her during a meeting at his Miramax office.

Since a New York Times article first revealed allegations of sexual misconduct
against Weinstein earlier this month, more than 40 women -- actresses, studio
workers and models -- have accused Weinstein of inappropriate behavior,
including harassment and rape. Actresses Asia Argento, Rose McGowan, Lysette
Anthony and Evans have all publicly stated that they were raped or forced to
perform a sex act by Weinstein. An unnamed woman also told the New Yorker that
he allegedly raped her. Eight women have received civil settlements over the
years from Weinstein or his companies related to his conduct, the New York Times
reported.

In other developments Thursday, a group of Weinstein Co. staffers responded to
sexual harassment and assault allegations against their company's disgraced
co-founder, saying they did not know he was a "serial sexual predator."

"We all knew that we were working for a man with an infamous temper. We did not
know we were working for a serial sexual predator," about 30 staffers said in a
letter sent to the New Yorker. "We knew that our boss could be manipulative. We
did not know that he used his power to systematically assault and silence
women."

The memo also blasted nondisclosure agreements in their contracts that some have
blamed for helping to keep allegations under wraps for years.

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

victoria.kim@latimes.com

Times staff writer Ryan Faughnder contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE ITALIAN model-actress is the sixth woman to accuse Harvey
Weinstein of rape or forcible sex acts. He has denied allegations of
nonconsensual sex.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Robyn Beck AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

DRAMA ROUNDTABLE;
CRYING FITS, UGLY FIGHTS, HEARTACHE. EMOTIONALLY, IT'S ALL GOOD

BYLINE: Greg Braxton

SECTION: THE ENVELOPE; Entertainment Desk; Part S; Part S; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1899 words


Television dramas in recent years have taken the lead in exploring themes of
human angst, conflict and determination, the same themes that have fueled recent
headlines nationally and internationally. Their artistry and achievements have
placed them front and center on the pop culture landscape when it comes to
issues that provoke and inspire -- race and class dynamics, religious rights,
life and death. ¶ The Envelope recently gathered stars of some of the buzziest
projects of the season -- Laura Dern (HBO's "Big Little Lies"), Regina King
(ABC's "American Crime"), Justin Theroux (HBO's "The Leftovers") and Milo
Ventimiglia (NBC's "This Is Us") -- who shared thoughts on making deep audience
connections, the emotional pain and joy of fight scenes, David Lynch -- and
cursing the guy who invented HD.

--

Dramatic TV, more than ever, has become a sounding board for people who are
feeling angst in the country right now. You all have shows that have touched a
nerve and there's a lot of expression that's going on in your shows about what
people are experiencing.

Ventimiglia: Things are moving in directions at a speed that we're having a hard
time hanging on to that basic humanity. I think a majority of it is escapism,
but also it reminds us of, at least on my show, goodness and kindness and a want
to connect through all of our differences.

King: I totally agree with Milo. Our shows offer a space to feel like there are
other people that are going through what I'm going through and it's not so scary
or it's not so unreal. Because so often we think it's only us, it's only our
family.

Theroux: Some of the best storytellers are now gravitating toward television
[where you can] communicate on a human level and not have to think about the
politics and get more into the emotional interactions because that's the real
storytelling as opposed to picking sides.

Dern: We all have this great opportunity to bring humor or irreverence to these
broken places too. Which I think, for each show, speaks to why people are so
connected to them, because they are also laughing at the heartbreak.

--

When you're doing intense scenes, and you've all done really raw scenes of
arguing, of fighting, of emotional violence, how do you know when it's working?

Dern: With a great director, when we feel we're in the hands of someone great, I
don't think there's ever been a moment, I would assume for any of us, that we
look up knowing it's not feeling honest or something's not right. And the
director is not going, "Yep, going again." You all feel it together. It is an
incredible thing when it's a team.

King: You go into it -- when it's an actor that you know, you come to that scene
like, all right --

Theroux: -- This is going to be fun.

Ventimiglia: Yeah, it could be the biggest knock-out, drag-down fight. You're
crying your head off, and at the end of it you're like, wasn't that fun?

--

Speaking of knock-down, drag-out fights, Milo, "This Is Us" really had an
incredible fight, something like I've never seen. What was that day like doing
that scene?

Ventimiglia: Mandy Moore, my TV wife, and I were both excited. It was one of
those scenes that you get and you think this is going to be so much fun. And
then there's the reality of, I need to say these horrible things to someone that
I care deeply about. And then there was this crazy isolating moment where --
Mandy and I, our chairs are right next to each other, she's my friend and we sit
there and talk all day long -- but I knew I couldn't be around her. I picked up
my chair and I walked out. And I was like, "Oh, I think I just set the tone of
how the day's going to go."

[laughter]

Ventimiglia: We were in it all day long and it hurt and it was painful. And the
one thing that I kept waiting for was the moment that it was over, I can look at
my partner, give her a hug, and be like, "I'm so blown away by your work" and
then turn to the crew and shake everyone's hand.

--

Laura, you had a huge fight scene with Reese Witherspoon in "Big Little Lies" --
and she's one of your best friends.

Dern: It had to be said. [laughter]

Dern: But only a friend can say it. I loved hearing how Milo just described that
experience because I feel like it is such an amazing privilege when you are
doing any kind of deeply emotional scene.

Ventimiglia: It's a moving, 24-headed hydra -- we've got Billy with the brick
light, and the cameras are moving around --

Theroux: We talk a lot about the scene partner and who you're acting against and
blah-blah-blah, but, you know, the way we're shooting things now, there are
sometimes cameras right up on you so our guy, Chris Cuevas, on "Leftovers" was
just as much of a dance partner as costar Carrie Coon because you're having to
be emotionally vulnerable so they have to be invested in it. Hopefully they like
the show. And all our crew I know loved our show as much as we did, so when it
had to get quiet, it would get quiet. Everything has to work in tandem.

--

One of the amazing things about all your performances is that so much of drama
seems to involve close-ups. There's absolutely no place to hide. You can't fake
it.

King: So the vanity comes in here. You know, when they made the switch over to
HD ...

Theroux: Yeah, thanks, whoever invented HD.

King: The first time I saw myself [in HD], I was like, "That's not me. I don't
have that. Well, surely there was a bad light or something?" But the beauty of
it is I think it made me an even better actor because it made me really say, I
shouldn't even be worrying about a line or a wrinkle or that something looks
harder because I'm part of the storytelling and that character is -- I'm not
playing a woman that's worried about that, so Regina, get out of your way.

Dern: My favorite memory of the experience of a close-up --

Theroux: -- I know what you're going to say.

Dern: Justin and I did a movie together and our director, David Lynch, was
holding the camera, handheld --

Theroux: 'Twas a love scene.

Dern: It had to be so romantic. And we're there and our faces are coming
together, and he's coming in and suddenly, as our eyes closed, we feel something
weird and we don't know what it is --

Theroux: -- and then we start feeling, like, a dunk, dunk [touches his
forehead]. And David's operating the camera and he's banging into our heads.
We're like, "Hey, man, you might want to just back the camera up." And he's
like, "Shh, stop it. Just go ahead. This is amazing."

Dern: So there are limits to the close-up. [laughter]

--

Laura, people just went nuts over "Big Little Lies." What do you think people
gravitated toward?

Dern: Speaking to what made me get into it, was five actresses together. We were
filming it during our last election, and examining women and honoring them on a
deep level at a time that we felt we weren't being seen in the way we wanted to
be seen, politically, culturally. And playing a character that was, I think,
perceived because of her intellect, power and ability to be scathing in a world
of men, that she must be cold, the B-word, a bad mother. That was an amazing
part to be playing and see what labels we put on women when they're powerful and
when they're coming up against the men for certain jobs, and, you know, whether
it's the corporate world or the banking world or politics. When I watch it, I
loved as an audience thinking I knew someone and judging them and then being
ashamed at my own judgments. And any time television or film can do that, it's
the great reckoning.

--

In watching "The Leftovers," Justin, sometimes I feel such angst for your
character because for two seasons Kevin has been so tortured and gone through so
much. This season you're saying goodbye to this character.

Theroux: It's a very kind of "What is the meaning of life?" type show. And
obviously that's impossible to answer. No artist has been able to answer it, no
painter, no, you know, composer. I wouldn't say there's any character that gets
off easy in our show. You know, they're all put through the crucible at some
point or another. So I feel like, I love playing the character but I would never
want it to go on and on and on. I would never want to put [showrunners Damon
Lindelof and Tom Perrotta] in the position of going, "Oh, boy, we've got to come
up with another season because we've been picked up and I guess we'll just put
you through some more hell." I think they really did craft a beautiful sort of
triptych of television that has a beginning, a middle, and an astounding ending.
They've really created this beautiful arc for everybody, not just my character.

--

Regina, this season you had a really heartbreaking scene. Your character,
Kimara, is a social worker who is trying to get pregnant and she's also trying
to help a very troubled teenage girl. And there was a scene where the teenager
is getting a sonogram and you convey so much in your face.

King: In that scene we're talking about a woman who really wants children and a
young girl who the last thing she feels she needs to deal with is a child, being
a mom, and Kimara's desire to be in her position. Obviously, a lot of women can
relate to that moment, but I think people can relate to that moment because it's
a heartbreaking thing to look at something you want, can't have, but you still
have to be there. Kimara represents a lot of our heroes, our heroines that don't
get the light shined on them because they're constantly giving, giving, giving
of themselves.

--

Milo, so many fans of the show are interested in knowing how Jack dies. And that
seems to be kind of a sticking point with you.

Ventimiglia: People want everything now. There's not that reverence of waiting.
I always tell them, "Don't worry about how he died. Focus on how he lived.
That's the more interesting journey." I just try to turn the dial a little bit.
You know, the most important thing about the man is how he impacts his kids,
which you see in the present day, and then beyond that, how he impacts his wife,
who you see in the present day. I think it's a more lasting memory to understand
how a human being has lived and inspired the people around them than that one
singular moment of how they passed away.

--

I wanted to talk about social media. Does it help? Does it annoy?

Ventimiglia: I think there's a value in the marketing of a show and the
understanding of, you can call it ancillary content to what the main story is.
But if I personally am in the spotlight more than what my characters are, are
people going to believe the characters that I'm playing? So I try to pull that
back and minimize that.

Dern: Now that I'm raising kids, I'm watching how social media is defining --
that someone is watching at all times. If you care enough, you'll have more
followers. If you wear the awesome thing or hang out with the right people --
and so what is the sense of loss to truly be one's self and let all of that go
away? I hope there's a generation of kids that as filmmakers and actors and
writers and musicians, are wanting to escape the false story --

Theroux: Social media is great for fans to discuss things among themselves. If
people are tweeting or Instagramming about a show, they're essentially having
the lobby discussion you would have after you've seen a good play or a movie on
the walk home. I mean, I learned long ago I don't check myself on social media,
you're going, like, "I need someone to bully me right now."

King: They're keyboard gangsters.

--

greg.braxton@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (COVER) THEY TOUCH A NERVE  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk McKoy Los Angeles
Times PHOTO: (S3) DRAMA CAN BE FUN: A roundtable discussion.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk
McKoy L.A. Times PHOTO: LAURA DERN, from left, Justin Theroux, Regina King and
Milo Ventimiglia discuss emotional scenes, extreme close-ups, social media and
more.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk McKoy Los Angeles Times PHOTO: THESE actors know all
about the power of TV dramas: Milo Ventimiglia ("This Is Us"), from left, Justin
Theroux ("The Leftovers"), Laura Dern ("Big Little Lies") and Regina King
("American Crime").  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk McKoy Los Angeles Times PHOTO: THESE
actors know all about the power of TV dramas: Milo Ventimiglia ("This Is Us"),
from left, Justin Theroux ("The Leftovers"), Laura Dern ("Big Little Lies") and
Regina King ("American Crime").  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk McKoy Los Angeles Times
PHOTO: THESE actors know all about the power of TV dramas: Milo Ventimiglia
("This Is Us"), from left, Justin Theroux ("The Leftovers"), Laura Dern ("Big
Little Lies") and Regina King ("American Crime").  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk McKoy Los
Angeles Times PHOTO: THESE actors know all about the power of TV dramas: Milo
Ventimiglia ("This Is Us"), from left, Justin Theroux ("The Leftovers"), Laura
Dern ("Big Little Lies") and Regina King ("American Crime").  PHOTOGRAPHER:Kirk
McKoy Los Angeles Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 17, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Hate crimes shift in 2016;
Incidents linked to white supremacists increased 67% in L.A. County, study
finds.

BYLINE: Melissa Etehad

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words


Los Angeles County saw a surge in reported hate crimes last year linked to white
supremacists, with a wave of incidents targeting Jews, Muslims and African
Americans, according to a study released Thursday.

Immigrants have also been targeted, prompting officials to call in sheriff's
deputies to maintain calm at public meetings.

"For the last several months we've had to alert the Sheriff's Department because
white supremacists and anti-immigrants groups have been disruptive in
communities like Cudahy," county Supervisor Hilda Solis said. "Residents are
fearful to attend these meetings because these groups have shown up yelling
fearful rhetoric and even brandishing weapons at times."

Reported hate crimes linked to white supremacists jumped from 63 in 2015 to 105
last year, a 67% increase, according to the annual study conducted by the L.A.
County Commission on Human Relations.

Overall, 482 incidents were reported, roughly the same as in 2015. But that
followed a 24% jump from 2014 to 2015 -- a surge that the study said was fueled
in part by anti-Muslim reaction to the Dec. 2, 2015, terror attack in San
Bernardino.

The study found that a majority of the reported hate crimes linked to white
supremacists -- 52% -- were motivated by religion and targeted mostly Jews. Last
year, swastikas were found on vehicles, synagogues, schools and Jewish-owned
businesses.

Race was the motivation for 36% of the white supremacist hate crimes, the study
found. The most frequently targeted group in these crimes were African
Americans.

The study also found that L.A. County saw an increase in gender-based crimes,
particularly against transgender people.

There were 39 reported gender-based crimes compared with 22 the year before -- a
77% increase.

The most targeted within that group in 2016 was Latina transgender women.

Mariana Marroquin, an anti-violence project manager at the Los Angeles LGBT
Center, said she was attacked about 20 years ago by a group of people because of
her gender identity.

"I was beat up and stripped while my attackers were planning how to kill me,"
said Marroquin, who identifies as a transgender woman and an immigrant. "We can
do better.... We are survivors and fighters, and we came so far that we cannot
go back."

The study covered the period during and after the 2016 presidential campaign, in
which President Trump made a series of controversial comments about Muslims and
Mexicans. Critics have complained that his comments emboldened white nationalist
groups.

The study found that after the election, from Nov. 8 through Dec. 31, there were
82 reported incidents -- a 9% increase from the previous year.

For instance, shortly after the election mosques in L.A. County received a
series of handwritten letters praising Trump and calling for the eradication of
Muslims in the country.

While L.A. County's total showed no increase, reports of hate crimes have been
on the rise in recent years across California and the nation.

The California attorney general's office reported an 11.2% statewide increase in
hate crimes in 2016. According to FBI statistics released this week, hate crimes
across the nation were up 5% in 2016 from the previous year.

The study, which has been conducted annually since 1980, is based on reports
from every law enforcement agency in L.A. County and community-based
organizations.

--

melissa.etehad@latimes.com

Twitter: @melissaetehad

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A PEDESTRIAN passes Hollywood Sikh Temple on Sept. 18, weeks
after someone wrote a hateful message in black marker on the Vermont Avenue
building.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Christina House Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa California)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 15, 2017 Saturday

UCI marijuana study finds increased crime rates following L.A. pot dispensary
closures

BYLINE: Bradley Zint, Daily Pilot, Costa Mesa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


July 15--A new study co-written by a UC Irvine business professor has found no
correlation between the closure of marijuana dispensaries and reduced crime
rates near them.

Rather, it discovered the opposite.

The paper, written by UCI's Mireille Jacobson and USC professor Tom Y. Chang,
studied the sudden closures of dispensaries in Los Angeles in 2010. The writers
found "immediate" crime increases -- particularly property crime -- near the
dispensaries forced to close relative to the ones allowed to remain open.

As a comparative measure, Jacobson and Chang also studied the forced temporary
closure of restaurants due to health code violations. They found similar crime
increases when those types of business stopped operations.

The study examined 597 dispensaries within L.A. city limits. Crime data from the
Los Angeles Times, the Daily Pilot's parent, was used in the study. The paper
included data from 888 restaurants closures in 2010.

Jacobson and Chang attribute the crime upticks to fewer "eyes upon the street,"
noting that when the dispensaries and restaurants closed, it caused fewer people
to go to those areas, which in turn likely became more attractive to criminals
who could commit crimes there without being seen by bystanders.

In an interview, Jacobson said the study could help disprove the popular belief
that marijuana dispensaries contribute to crime in neighborhoods.

She noted that her work's suggestions are particularly timely considering
recreational marijuana will be legal in California in 2018.

"I think jurisdictions are just going to have to get over the fear" of having
dispensaries, Jacobson said. "They're here and we're going to have to deal with
them."

Newport Beach, Costa Mesa, Laguna Beach, Huntington Beach and Fountain Valley
have various levels of marijuana bans.

A voter-approved measure last year in Costa Mesa, however, is changing the pot
scene in the City of the Arts.

Costa Mesa doesn't permit cultivation or retail sales, but under a measure
approved last year, a business area north of the 405 Freeway and west of Harbor
Boulevard became zoned for wholesale medical marijuana distribution,
manufacturing, processing and transporting, according to the city's website.
It's also allowed to contain research and testing laboratories.

Laguna's City Council reinforced its stance against marijuana of any kind with
an ordinance adopted earlier this year. Laguna voters also rejected a proposal
last fall that would have reversed the city's ban on medical marijuana
dispensaries and allowed two of them.

Huntington Beach's Planning Commission is scheduled to review a ban on
nonmedical marijuana commercial businesses July 25.

bradley.zint@latimes.com

Twitter: @BradleyZint

___ (c)2017 the Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa, Calif.) Visit the Daily Pilot (Costa
Mesa, Calif.) at www.dailypilot.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170715-1DP-UCI-marijuana-study-finds-increased-crime
-rates-following-L-A-pot-dispensary-closures-0715-20170715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1DP


                           Copyright 2017 Daily Pilot


                              56 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             March 4, 2017 Saturday

Man wanted on sex crime warrant arrested

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 206 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities discovered a man, initially arrested for failing to give proper
identification, was wanted out of Los Angeles county for various sex crimes.

FULL TEXT

Authorities discovered a man, initially arrested for a misdemeanor, was wanted
out of Los Angeles County on a $4.62 million warrant for various sex crimes.

"Mr. (Edward) Robinson has been charged with three counts of forcible oral
copulation and one count each of sexual penetration by foreign object, false
imprisonment by violence and dissuading a witness," said Greg Risling, spokesman
for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office. He did not have
information on where the alleged crimes had taken place or details.

Robinson, 36, was arrested Feb. 25 at the San Manuel Indian Gaming & Casino by
San Manuel Tribal police for allegedly falsely identifying himself to a police
officer as well as parole violations, San Bernardino County sheriff's booking
records show. A background search revealed his multi-million warrant out of Los
Angeles County, officials said.

Robinson was booked into Central Detention

Center in San Bernardino and has pleaded not guilty to the misdemeanor false
identification charge. His case in Los Angeles County court is still pending.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             March 4, 2017 Saturday

Man wanted on sex crime warrant arrested

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 206 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities discovered a man, initially arrested for failing to give proper
identification, was wanted out of Los Angeles county for various sex crimes.

FULL TEXT

Authorities discovered a man, initially arrested for a misdemeanor, was wanted
out of Los Angeles County on a $4.62 million warrant for various sex crimes.

"Mr. (Edward) Robinson has been charged with three counts of forcible oral
copulation and one count each of sexual penetration by foreign object, false
imprisonment by violence and dissuading a witness," said Greg Risling, spokesman
for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office. He did not have
information on where the alleged crimes had taken place or details.

Robinson, 36, was arrested Feb. 25 at the San Manuel Indian Gaming & Casino by
San Manuel Tribal police for allegedly falsely identifying himself to a police
officer as well as parole violations, San Bernardino County sheriff's booking
records show. A background search revealed his multi-million warrant out of Los
Angeles County, officials said.

Robinson was booked into Central Detention

Center in San Bernardino and has pleaded not guilty to the misdemeanor false
identification charge. His case in Los Angeles County court is still pending.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

Investigators say father of missing boy planned to kill his son

BYLINE: Chris Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 655 words


County prosecutors and sheriff's investigators said there was evidence
indicating the father of the 5-year-old South Pasadena boy who went missing more
than two months ago planned to kill his son amid a tumultuous divorce from his
wife.

None of the officials in downtown Los Angeles on Monday would talk much about
the specific evidence they had against the father, Aramazd Andressian Sr. of
South Pasadena.

Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey filed a murder charge against
Andressian Sr. last week. He was arrested Friday in Las Vegas by deputies with
the sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau Fugitive Taskforce, with help from the Las
Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and U.S. Marshals.

Lacey said that while investigators have not yet found the body of the boy,
Aramazd Andressian Jr., she believed there was enough circumstantial evidence to
prosecute the father.

"I would not have filed the charge if I was not confident a jury would convict
him," Lacey said.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Andressian Sr. remains in custody in Las Vegas on $10
million bail and expects him to be extradited to Los Angeles later this week.
Lacey said Andressian Sr. will face arraignment at that time.

Sheriff's Lt. Joe Mendoza said the arrest occurred Friday because investigators
believed

Andressian Sr. was preparing to flee the country. He had been living in Las
Vegas for 47 days, Mendoza said, and had made several efforts to change his
appearance, including shaving his beard.

"If my son went missing, I'd be doing the same thing (Andressian Jr.'s mother)
Ana (Estevez) was doing - handing out fliers, going out to search - not
socializing in Vegas," Mendoza said.

Refusing to share specifics about what evidence they collected in the case,
Mendoza said they believe Andressian Sr. killed his son to get back at Estevez
during their divorce.

An attorney for Andressian Sr., Daniel Nardoni of Pasadena, did not respond to
several calls for comment.

Andressian Jr. was last seen leaving Disneyland with his father around 1 a.m. on
April 21. Surveillance video taken six hours later showed Andressian Sr. at Lake
Cachuma in Santa Barbara County. His son wasn't with him.

Mendoza also said Andressian Sr. gave investigators inaccurate information in
interviews.

Andressian Jr. was reported missing by his mother on April 22 when Andressian
Sr. failed to turn over the child to his mother for a scheduled custody
exchange.

The same day the child was reported missing, Andressian Sr. was found
unconscious near his car, which was parked at the Arroyo Seco Park in South
Pasadena. The vehicle was doused in gasoline and there was a rag sticking out of
the gas tank.

He told police he had taken prescription pills that belonged to someone else and
did not know what had happened to his son.

In prior weeks, homicide detectives had said that they were confident the
missing boy was still alive and being held somewhere. A massive search for the
missing boy ensued.

Sheriff's deputies served a search warrant at the Montebello home of Andressian
Sr.'s mother. The deputies were seen taking computer equipment from the home.

Officials and volunteers scoured every place the man and son were known to have
visited, including Arroyo Seco Park.

Search teams repeatedly returned to Lake Cachuma. Before their statements
Monday, sheriff's officials had said witnesses reported seeing the boy with his
father there.

In a statement shared by the Sheriff's Department, Estevez thanked investigators
and the community for all the concern they've shown for her son, who goes by the
nickname "Piqui." She expressed great sorrow at the conclusion that her son
almost certainly is dead.

"My heart is shattered and I will miss my son immensely each and every second of
every day for the rest of my life," she said in the statement. "Piqui was
everything great in my life and I cannot imagine the emptiness and void that I
will bear until we are together again someday."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Pump pirates: Black market fuel is making millions; Criminal gangs stealing from
gas stations seen as a rampant problem in the U.S

BYLINE: Brendan Farrington, The Associated Press

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. B9

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, FLA.


A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread around the U.S., with
organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to siphon millions of
dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden inside pickup trucks
and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavours,
and criminals can make US$1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area.

"California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said.

Thieves install these devices at gas station pumps, where they record card
information as unsuspecting customers fuel up. The information is later
transferred to a magnetic strip on a counterfeit card. The problem has only
grown as the devices become more sophisticated.

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said.

"The gangbangers in Los Angeles have been migrating to financial crimes instead
of street crimes because it's much more profitable and if you get caught, you
get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each.

For 10 months, they observed drivers using credit card information stolen from
about 900 people to fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into
a 4,500-gallon industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to
gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to US$16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal US$7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation
for about five years before agents shut it down.

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks.

One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a month to steal US$100,000 in diesel
from two stations in Central Florida.

In other cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another
pumps diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

In 2014, a convicted fuel thief's van exploded as he filled a secret tank in
Miami-Dade County. In 2015, a man driving a truck carrying 1,650 gallons of
stolen diesel led police on a high-speed chase, weaving in and out of traffic on
Interstate 5 before crashing into a highway barrier.

"God forbid that hits a school bus with a bunch of kids on it," said Ned Bowman,
executive director of the Florida Petroleum and Convenience Store Association.

"A car full of that much fuel is like a bomb going down the street."
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Larry Payne, Florida Department Of Agriculture Via The Associated
Press; A truck is outfitted with a large tank used to siphon gas from stations
using stolen credit cards. The market for stolen fuel can be lucrative, with
criminals who can rake in US$1,000 or more a day, industry experts say.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                                 Early Edition

Pump pirates: Black market fuel is making millions; Criminal gangs stealing from
gas stations seen as a rampant problem in the U.S

BYLINE: Brendan Farrington, The Associated Press

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, FLA.


A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread around the U.S., with
organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to siphon millions of
dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden inside pickup trucks
and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavours,
and criminals can make US$1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area.

"California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said.

Thieves install these devices at gas station pumps, where they record card
information as unsuspecting customers fuel up. The information is later
transferred to a magnetic strip on a counterfeit card. The problem has only
grown as the devices become more sophisticated.

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said.

"The gangbangers in Los Angeles have been migrating to financial crimes instead
of street crimes because it's much more profitable and if you get caught, you
get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each.

For 10 months, they observed drivers using credit card information stolen from
about 900 people to fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into
a 4,500-gallon industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to
gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to US$16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal US$7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation
for about five years before agents shut it down.

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks.

One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a month to steal US$100,000 in diesel
from two stations in Central Florida.

In other cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another
pumps diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

In 2014, a convicted fuel thief's van exploded as he filled a secret tank in
Miami-Dade County. In 2015, a man driving a truck carrying 1,650 gallons of
stolen diesel led police on a high-speed chase, weaving in and out of traffic on
Interstate 5 before crashing into a highway barrier.

"God forbid that hits a school bus with a bunch of kids on it," said Ned Bowman,
executive director of the Florida Petroleum and Convenience Store Association.

"A car full of that much fuel is like a bomb going down the street."
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Larry Payne Florida Department Of Agriculture Via  The Associated
Press; A truck is outfitted with a large tank used to siphon gas from gas
stations using stolen credit cards. The market for stolen fuel can be lucrative,
with criminals who can rake in US$1,000 or more a day, investigators and
industry experts say.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

DA: Dad planned to kill boy, 5;
Missing son's body has not been found; man is facing murder charge

BYLINE: Chris Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words


County prosecutors and sheriff's investigators said there was evidence
indicating the father of the 5-year-old South Pasadena boy who went missing more
than two months ago planned to kill his son amid a tumultuous divorce from his
wife.

None of the officials in downtown Los Angeles on Monday would talk much about
the specific evidence they had against the father, Aramazd Andressian Sr. of
South Pasadena.

Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey filed a murder charge against
Andressian Sr. last week. He was then arrested Friday in Las Vegas by deputies
with the sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau Fugitive Taskforce, with help from the
Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and

U.S. Marshals.

Lacey said while investigators have not yet found the body of the boy, Aramazd
Andressian Jr., she believed there was enough circumstantial evidence to
prosecute the father.

"I would not have filed the charge if I was not confident a jury would convict
him," Lacey said.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Andressian Sr. remains in custody in Las Vegas on $10
million bail, and expects him to be extradited to Los Angeles later this week.
Lacey said Andressian Sr. will face arraignment at that time.

Sheriff's Lt. Joe Mendoza said the arrest happened Friday because investigators
believed Andressian Sr. was preparing to flee the country. He had been living in
Las Vegas for 47 days, Mendoza said, and had made several efforts to change his
appearance, including shaving his beard.

"If my son went missing, I'd be doing the same thing (Andressian Jr.'s mother)
Ana (Estevez) was doing - handing out fliers, going out to search - not
socializing in Vegas," Mendoza said.

Refusing to share specifics about what evidence they collected in the case,
Mendoza said they believe Andressian Sr. killed his son to get back at Estevez
during their divorce.

An attorney for Andressian Sr., Daniel Nardoni of Pasadena, did not respond to
several calls for comment.

Andressian Jr. was last seen leaving Disneyland with his father around 1 a.m. on
April 21. Surveillance video taken six hours later showed Andressian Sr. at Lake
Cachuma in Santa Barbara County. His son wasn't with him.

Mendoza also said Andressian Sr. gave investigators inaccurate information in
interviews.

Andressian Jr. was reported missing by his mother on April 22 when Andressian
Sr. failed to turn over the child to his mother for a scheduled custody
exchange.

The same day the child was reported missing, Andressian Sr. was found
unconscious near his car, which was parked at the Arroyo Seco Park in South
Pasadena. The vehicle was doused in gasoline and there was a rag sticking out of
the gas tank.

He told police he had taken prescription pills that belonged to someone else and
did not know what had happened to his son.

In prior weeks, homicide detectives had said that they were confident the
missing boy was still alive and being held somewhere. A massive search for the
missing boy ensued.

Sheriff's deputies served a search warrant at the Montebello home of Andressian
Sr.'s mother. The deputies were seen taking computer equipment from the home.

Officials and volunteers scoured every place the man and son were known to have
visited, including Arroyo Seco Park.

Search teams repeatedly returned to Lake Cachuma. Before their statements
Monday, sheriff's officials had said witnesses reported seeing the boy with his
father there.

In a statement shared by the Sheriff's Department, Estevez thanked investigators
and the community for all the concern they've shown for her son, who goes by the
nickname "Piqui." She expressed great sorrow at the conclusion that her son
almost certainly is dead.

"My heart is shattered and I will miss my son immensely each and every second of
every day for the rest of my life," she said in the statement. "Piqui was
everything great in my life and I cannot imagine the emptiness and void that I
will bear until we are together again someday."

Staff writers Brian Day and Josh Cain contributed to this report .

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

DA: Dad planned to kill boy, 5;
Missing son's body has not been found; man is facing murder charge

BYLINE: Chris Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words


County prosecutors and sheriff's investigators said there was evidence
indicating the father of the 5-year-old South Pasadena boy who went missing more
than two months ago planned to kill his son amid a tumultuous divorce from his
wife.

None of the officials in downtown Los Angeles on Monday would talk much about
the specific evidence they had against the father, Aramazd Andressian Sr. of
South Pasadena.

Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey filed a murder charge against
Andressian Sr. last week. He was then arrested Friday in Las Vegas by deputies
with the sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau Fugitive Taskforce, with help from the
Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and

U.S. Marshals.

Lacey said while investigators have not yet found the body of the boy, Aramazd
Andressian Jr., she believed there was enough circumstantial evidence to
prosecute the father.

"I would not have filed the charge if I was not confident a jury would convict
him," Lacey said.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Andressian Sr. remains in custody in Las Vegas on $10
million bail, and expects him to be extradited to Los Angeles later this week.
Lacey said Andressian Sr. will face arraignment at that time.

Sheriff's Lt. Joe Mendoza said the arrest happened Friday because investigators
believed Andressian Sr. was preparing to flee the country. He had been living in
Las Vegas for 47 days, Mendoza said, and had made several efforts to change his
appearance, including shaving his beard.

"If my son went missing, I'd be doing the same thing (Andressian Jr.'s mother)
Ana (Estevez) was doing - handing out fliers, going out to search - not
socializing in Vegas," Mendoza said.

Refusing to share specifics about what evidence they collected in the case,
Mendoza said they believe Andressian Sr. killed his son to get back at Estevez
during their divorce.

An attorney for Andressian Sr., Daniel Nardoni of Pasadena, did not respond to
several calls for comment.

Andressian Jr. was last seen leaving Disneyland with his father around 1 a.m. on
April 21. Surveillance video taken six hours later showed Andressian Sr. at Lake
Cachuma in Santa Barbara County. His son wasn't with him.

Mendoza also said Andressian Sr. gave investigators inaccurate information in
interviews.

Andressian Jr. was reported missing by his mother on April 22 when Andressian
Sr. failed to turn over the child to his mother for a scheduled custody
exchange.

The same day the child was reported missing, Andressian Sr. was found
unconscious near his car, which was parked at the Arroyo Seco Park in South
Pasadena. The vehicle was doused in gasoline and there was a rag sticking out of
the gas tank.

He told police he had taken prescription pills that belonged to someone else and
did not know what had happened to his son.

In prior weeks, homicide detectives had said that they were confident the
missing boy was still alive and being held somewhere. A massive search for the
missing boy ensued.

Sheriff's deputies served a search warrant at the Montebello home of Andressian
Sr.'s mother. The deputies were seen taking computer equipment from the home.

Officials and volunteers scoured every place the man and son were known to have
visited, including Arroyo Seco Park.

Search teams repeatedly returned to Lake Cachuma. Before their statements
Monday, sheriff's officials had said witnesses reported seeing the boy with his
father there.

In a statement shared by the Sheriff's Department, Estevez thanked investigators
and the community for all the concern they've shown for her son, who goes by the
nickname "Piqui." She expressed great sorrow at the conclusion that her son
almost certainly is dead.

"My heart is shattered and I will miss my son immensely each and every second of
every day for the rest of my life," she said in the statement. "Piqui was
everything great in my life and I cannot imagine the emptiness and void that I
will bear until we are together again someday."

Staff writers Brian Day and Josh Cain contributed to this report .

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

DA: Dad planned to kill boy, 5;
Missing son's body has not been found; man is facing murder charge

BYLINE: Chris Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 666 words


County prosecutors and sheriff's investigators said there was evidence
indicating the father of the 5-year-old South Pasadena boy who went missing more
than two months ago planned to kill his son amid a tumultuous divorce from his
wife.

None of the officials in downtown Los Angeles on Monday would talk much about
the specific evidence they had against the father, Aramazd Andressian Sr. of
South Pasadena.

Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey filed a murder charge against
Andressian Sr. last week. He was then arrested Friday in Las Vegas by deputies
with the sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau Fugitive Taskforce, with help from the
Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and

U.S. Marshals.

Lacey said while investigators have not yet found the body of the boy, Aramazd
Andressian Jr., she believed there was enough circumstantial evidence to
prosecute the father.

"I would not have filed the charge if I was not confident a jury would convict
him," Lacey said.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Andressian Sr. remains in custody in Las Vegas on $10
million bail, and expects him to be extradited to Los Angeles later this week.
Lacey said Andressian Sr. will face arraignment at that time.

Sheriff's Lt. Joe Mendoza said the arrest happened Friday because investigators
believed Andressian Sr. was preparing to flee the country. He had been living in
Las Vegas for 47 days, Mendoza said, and had made several efforts to change his
appearance, including shaving his beard.

"If my son went missing, I'd be doing the same thing (Andressian Jr.'s mother)
Ana (Estevez) was doing - handing out fliers, going out to search - not
socializing in Vegas," Mendoza said.

Refusing to share specifics about what evidence they collected in the case,
Mendoza said they believe Andressian Sr. killed his son to get back at Estevez
during their divorce.

An attorney for Andressian Sr., Daniel Nardoni of Pasadena, did not respond to
several calls for comment.

Andressian Jr. was last seen leaving Disneyland with his father around 1 a.m. on
April 21. Surveillance video taken six hours later showed Andressian Sr. at Lake
Cachuma in Santa Barbara County. His son wasn't with him.

Mendoza also said Andressian Sr. gave investigators inaccurate information in
interviews.

Andressian Jr. was reported missing by his mother on April 22 when Andressian
Sr. failed to turn over the child to his mother for a scheduled custody
exchange.

The same day the child was reported missing, Andressian Sr. was found
unconscious near his car, which was parked at the Arroyo Seco Park in South
Pasadena. The vehicle was doused in gasoline and there was a rag sticking out of
the gas tank.

He told police he had taken prescription pills that belonged to someone else and
did not know what had happened to his son.

In prior weeks, homicide detectives had said that they were confident the
missing boy was still alive and being held somewhere. A massive search for the
missing boy ensued.

Sheriff's deputies served a search warrant at the Montebello home of Andressian
Sr.'s mother. The deputies were seen taking computer equipment from the home.

Officials and volunteers scoured every place the man and son were known to have
visited, including Arroyo Seco Park.

Search teams repeatedly returned to Lake Cachuma. Before their statements
Monday, sheriff's officials had said witnesses reported seeing the boy with his
father there.

In a statement shared by the Sheriff's Department, Estevez thanked investigators
and the community for all the concern they've shown for her son, who goes by the
nickname "Piqui." She expressed great sorrow at the conclusion that her son
almost certainly is dead.

"My heart is shattered and I will miss my son immensely each and every second of
every day for the rest of my life," she said in the statement. "Piqui was
everything great in my life and I cannot imagine the emptiness and void that I
will bear until we are together again someday."

Staff writers Brian Day and Josh Cain contributed to this report .

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             April 1, 2017 Saturday

Crime in L.A. spikes as arrests drop 25%;
Survey  72% of cops say they're less likely to stop, question people due to
increased scrutiny of police.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: W-NATIONAL; None

LENGTH: 328 words


Los Angeles The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent
years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime, according to
an analysis published Saturday.

The state saw 1.5 million arrests for misdemeanors and felonies in 2015, the
most recent year with figures available, according to the Los Angeles Times.

In Los Angeles, arrests dropped by 25 percent from 2013 to 2015, even as the
city saw a spike in crime. There's no clear reason behind the decline. Law
enforcement officials said fewer officers and changes in strategy could be
behind some of it.

Others said increased scrutiny of officers after a series of high-profile
shootings and beatings, most involving black suspects, have led to less
motivation.

In a national survey of law enforcement officers in 2016, 72 percent said they
and their fellow officers were less likely to stop and question people because
of such incidents.

"Not to make fun of it, but a lot of guys are like, 'Look, I'm just going to act
like a fireman.' I'm going to handle my calls for service and the things that I
have to do," George Hofstetter, a motorcycle deputy for the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department and a former union leader for deputies, told the Times.
"But going out there and making traffic stops and contacting persons who may be
up to something nefarious? 'I'm not going to do that anymore.'"

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck did not agree, saying he hasn't seen
significant hesitance. "I'd be denying human nature if I didn't say police are
very cautious about what they do now because of the scrutiny," Beck said. "But
do I see it? I don't really see things that make me think that the workforce as
a body is retreating. I don't see that at all."

Proposition 47, a ballot measure passed by state voters in November 2014,
downgraded some felonies to misdemeanors, and many police officers told the
Times that means those arrests are often not worth the time and effort they
take.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Krant


                      Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

California has fewer arrests, but not necessarily less crime

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 400 words

ABSTRACT

The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent years, but
it's not necessarily good news on crime

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in
recent years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime,
according to an analysis published Saturday.

The state saw 1.5 million arrests for misdemeanors and felonies in 2015, the
most recent year with figures available, according to the Los Angeles Times.

In Los Angeles, arrests dropped by 25 percent from 2013 to 2015, even as the
city saw a spike in crime.

There's no clear reason behind the decline.

Law enforcement officials said fewer officers and changes in strategy could be
behind some of it.

Others said increased scrutiny of officers after a series of high-profile
shootings and beatings, most involving black suspects, have led to less
motivation.

In a national survey of law enforcement officers in 2016, 72 percent said they
and their fellow officers were less likely to stop and question people because
of such incidents.

"Not to make fun of it, but a lot of guys are like, 'Look, I'm just going to act
like a fireman.' I'm going to handle my calls for service and the things that I
have to do," George Hofstetter, a motorcycle deputy for the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department and a former union leader for deputies, told the Times.
"But going out there and making traffic stops and contacting persons who may be
up to something nefarious? 'I'm not going to do that anymore.' "

Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck did not agree, saying he hasn't seen
significant hesitance.

"I'd be denying human nature if I didn't say police are very cautious about what
they do now because of the scrutiny," Beck said. "But do I see it? I don't
really see things that make me think that the workforce as a body is retreating.
I don't see that at all."

Proposition 47, a ballot measure passed by state voters in November 2014,
downgraded some felonies to misdemeanors, and many police officers told the
Times that means those arrests are often not worth the time and effort they
take.

Beck said in his city the increase has come in the most serious crimes, while
the decrease has come from drug arrests.

But he said a positive change in policing is partly behind the drop in arrests,
with less emphasis in his department on just making countless busts as was the
case decades ago.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

State seeing fewer arrests, but not necessarily less crime

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 400 words

ABSTRACT

The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent years, but
it's not necessarily good news on crime

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in
recent years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime,
according to an analysis published Saturday.

The state saw 1.5 million arrests for misdemeanors and felonies in 2015, the
most recent year with figures available, according to the Los Angeles Times.

In Los Angeles, arrests dropped by 25 percent from 2013 to 2015, even as the
city saw a spike in crime.

There's no clear reason behind the decline.

Law enforcement officials said fewer officers and changes in strategy could be
behind some of it.

Others said increased scrutiny of officers after a series of high-profile
shootings and beatings, most involving black suspects, have led to less
motivation.

In a national survey of law enforcement officers in 2016, 72 percent said they
and their fellow officers were less likely to stop and question people because
of such incidents.

"Not to make fun of it, but a lot of guys are like, 'Look, I'm just going to act
like a fireman.' I'm going to handle my calls for service and the things that I
have to do," George Hofstetter, a motorcycle deputy for the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department and a former union leader for deputies, told the Times.
"But going out there and making traffic stops and contacting persons who may be
up to something nefarious? 'I'm not going to do that anymore.' "

Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck did not agree, saying he hasn't seen
significant hesitance.

"I'd be denying human nature if I didn't say police are very cautious about what
they do now because of the scrutiny," Beck said. "But do I see it? I don't
really see things that make me think that the workforce as a body is retreating.
I don't see that at all."

Proposition 47, a ballot measure passed by state voters in November 2014,
downgraded some felonies to misdemeanors, and many police officers told the
Times that means those arrests are often not worth the time and effort they
take.

Beck said in his city the increase has come in the most serious crimes, while
the decrease has come from drug arrests.

But he said a positive change in policing is partly behind the drop in arrests,
with less emphasis in his department on just making countless busts as was the
case decades ago.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                New Delhi Times

                           August 23, 2017 Wednesday

Los Angeles Seeks to Join Lawsuit Over US Sanctuary Policies

LENGTH: 493  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Aug. 23 --
http://www.newdelhitimes.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/6D17196D-FE84-44D8-BD3E-
E7BB1264662D_w650_r0_s-e1503478165548.jpg

The city of Los Angeles on Tuesday sought to join a lawsuit against the U.S.
Department of Justice over federal restrictions on some law enforcement grants
to so-called sanctuary cities, according to a court filing.

The state of California and city of San Francisco earlier this month filed legal
challenges that accused the administration of President Donald Trump of
improperly trying to force local jurisdictions to enforce national immigration
law by imposing funding conditions.

In proposed legal claims filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of California, attorneys for Los Angeles called the Justice Department's
proposals "unconstitutional on their face." A judge would have to approve Los
Angeles' request to intervene in the existing San Francisco lawsuit.

Devin O'Malley, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said it was "baffling"
that the city would challenge policies designed to keep residents safer, given
that violent crime has risen in Los Angeles since 2014.

Violent crime has gone up in the past three years, but it is still well below
historical levels. In 1992, 1,094 people were killed in the city, according to
the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting statistics. In 2016, the Los Angeles Police
Department reported 294 homicides.

Executive order

Trump issued a broad executive order in January targeting wide swaths of federal
funding for cities that generally offer illegal immigrants safe harbor by
declining to use municipal resources to enforce federal immigration laws.

A San Francisco judge, however, drastically limited the scope of that policy in
a previous lawsuit filed by the city of San Francisco.

The Justice Department then sought to impose conditions on a national grant for
local law enforcement that mandates access to local jails for federal
immigration officials as well as 48 hours' notice before releasing anyone wanted
for immigration violations.

Sanctuary cities generally offer safe harbor to illegal immigrants and often do
not use municipal funds or resources to enforce federal immigration laws.

The city of Chicago has also filed a lawsuit challenging the Justice
Department's funding conditions. Last week, the suit drew the ire of U.S.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

The Trump administration contends that local authorities endanger public safety
when they decline to hand over for deportation illegal immigrants arrested for
crimes.

Los Angeles City Council President Herb Wesson in a statement called the city "a
beacon of light for the rest of the country because we do not compromise our
values, regardless of what the federal government demands."

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from New Delhi Times.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at content.services@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 New Delhi Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

Slain officer among Memorial honorees;
Wall: Keith Boyer, killed in the line of duty in February, honored by county at
annual event

BYLINE: Christopher Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 526 words


LOS ANGELES >> Slain Whittier police Officer Keith Boyer was one of six Los
Angeles County peace officers honored Wednesday at the 48th annual Los Angeles
County Peace Officers' Memorial.

With the six additions presented Wednesday, the new Memorial Wall at the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Eugene W. Biscailuz Regional Training
Center grew to 515 names of peace officers from across the county killed in
action as far back as the 1850s.

Boyer was the most recent officer killed to be honored at the ceremony. The
veteran Whittier police officer was slain in a shootout in February.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper spoke about Boyer at the ceremony.

"(Keith) was an intelligent, inspiring, compassionate person who provided
exceptional public service for nearly 30 years, and like those heroes on the
wall behind me, he will never be forgotten," Piper said.

The Whittier Police Department honored Boyer last week by memori

alizing him on the Whittier Police Memorial statue in front of the police
station.

Piper criticized state legislation - most notably AB 109 and Proposition 47 -
that he said allowed Boyer's alleged killer, Michael Christopher Mejia, 26, of
Los Angeles, to be on the street.

Adopted in 2011, AB 109 allows state prisoners up for parole as of Oct. 1, 2011,
to be eligible for post-release community supervision, and Prop. 47 reduces
several drug-related crimes from felonies to misdemeanors.

Boyer's alleged killer, Piper said, was free on post-release community
supervision and had been jailed six times since June 2016 for drug-related
crimes and held in county jail for 10 days each time, the maximum time allowed.

"It's a fallacy to believe our criminal justice reforms are serving the best
interests of anyone but the recycled criminal," Piper said. "This isn't about
locking people up. This is about policymakers addressing shortcomings and
failures of our current system and having the fortitude to do what's right."

Researchers of AB 109 and California's other prison reform bills have said there
is no evidence of increases in violent crime across the state as a result of
their passage.

Don Clark, Boyer's stepfather, said he appreciated the ceremony and the effort
to honor all fallen officers, but no efforts to honor Boyer would bring him
back.

"These guys deserve so much more," Clark said. "It's still quite an open wound
for us."

Sheriff's Sgt. Steven Owen and Sgt. Alfonso Lopez, both of whom were also killed
in the line of duty since last year's ceremony, were honored alongside Boyer.
Three others killed in decades past, but who had gone unrecognized, were also
recognized on the memorial: Deputy Marshal Frederick Moore, sheriff's Deputy
Arthur Solomon and sheriff's Constable Charles Winston.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell praised Owen and Lopez for their dedication to their
duties. He said the sacrifices of all the honorees should cause people to give
thanks for what police officers risk on a daily basis.

"Collectively across our county, during this contentious political time, we can
take the time to pause and reflect on the positive role that police play in all
of our lives every minute of every day," McDonnell said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Gang's 'safe haven' targeted;
L.A. city attorney sues to have home where white supremacists gather declared a
public nuisance

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words

ABSTRACT

The City Attorney's Office today sued three people, asking that a Canoga Park
home where a white supremacist gang gathers that has been the site of ongoing
drug sales since 2011 be declared a public nuisance.

FULL TEXT

The Los Angeles city attorney's office Monday sued three people, asking that a
Canoga Park home where a white supremacist gang gathers that has been the site
of ongoing drug sales since 2011 be declared a public nuisance.

The Los Angeles Superior Court lawsuit names as defendants 50-year-old Lisa
Bellinaso; her 79-year-old mother, Isabella Bellinaso; and Lisa Bellinaso's
37-year-old boyfriend, Ryan Matthew Andrews.

In addition to the declaration of a public nuisance, the city is asking that a
judge enjoin further narcotic dealings at the home in the 8400 block of Remmet
Avenue, where Andrews and Lisa Bellinaso live.

The defendants could not be immediately reached.

According to the complaint, the property "is a hospitable place for gang members
and their associates," in particular one group that "embraces white supremacist
ideology and has ties to the Aryan Brotherhood prison gang."

One gang member was arrested last October with a quantity of methamphetamine
while sitting in his car, while another was taken into custody in December
outside the home with a rifle and live ammunition that he used in a burglary,
the suit alleges.

"These and other gang members are able to further their gang activity by using
the property as a safe haven to buy, sell and use narcotics, store stolen
property and exert control over the neighborhood," the suit alleges.

Both Lisa Bellinaso and Andrews have been arrested several times for
drug-related crimes at the home, the suit states. Lisa Bellinaso owned

the property from 2002 until late 2010 or early 2011, when she transferred it to
a trust controlled by her mother, the suit states.

Lisa Bellinaso also has been arrested for diverting electrical power to the
property through a bypass of a Department of Water and Power meter, the suit
alleges.

Andrews is a longtime drug user and seller and has been convicted of at least
seven narcotics-related offenses since 2000, the suit alleges.

The home is less than a half-mile from the LAPD's Topanga Community Police
Station and is a similar distance from Nevada Elementary School and Lanark Park,
the suit states. Parthenia Park is within a mile, the suit states.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            March 22, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

LAPD: LATINOS REPORT FEWER SEX CRIMES AMID IMMIGRATION FEARS

BYLINE: Michael Balsamo Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 008

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES  - Reports of sexual assaults and domestic violence among Los
Angeles' Latino population have plummeted since the beginning of the year, amid
fears that immigrants in the country illegally could face deportation if they
interact with police or appear in court, the city's police chief said Tuesday.

Since the beginning of 2017, sexual assault reports have dropped 25 percent and
domestic violence reports have decreased by 10 percent among Latinos, Los
Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck said Tuesday. Similar decreases
weren't seen in other ethnic groups, he said.

"Imagine your sister, your mother, not reporting a sexual assault for fear that
their family will be torn apart," Beck said Tuesday.

Around the nation, President Donald Trump's efforts to crack down on the
estimated 11 million immigrants living illegally in the U.S. have sparked fear
and anxiety, leading many people to try to avoid any contact with law
enforcement.

Beck said there was a "strong correlation" between the timing of the decreased
reporting and fears of accelerated efforts to round up and deport immigrants.

Josh Rubenstein, a Los Angeles police spokesman, said the numbers were
"concerning" and that the department is continuing to look at "every element
contributing to the drop in reporting."

Advocates say the unease among immigrants is forcing the victims of violent
crimes to stay silent.

"We are seeing immigrant families potentially being so afraid of the ultimate
punishment, which deportation represents, that they may forego their chances of
justice," said Jorge-Mario Cabrera, of the immigrant advocacy group CHIRLA. "We
do not want to be in a situation where victims of crimes remain silent because
they fear deportation. That's just horrible and unthinkable."

In an interview with the Associated Press earlier this month, Los Angeles County
Sheriff Jim McDonnell said gang members have also been preying on undocumented
immigrants and telling them they would be deported if they report crimes to the
police.

"Certainly the felons in our community are using that as a weapon against the
hardworking people, letting them believe that if you come forward as a witness
or a victim to the police that you open yourself up to deportation," McDonnell
said. "That is certainly not the case."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              71 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

Blame for violence goes left and right

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 363 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN

FULL TEXT

A hate-crime expert's report to Los Angeles County officials on the reasons for
a rise in political violence is something people should hear - even if they'd
rather not.

Nobody wants to be told that their side of the political divide is partly to
blame for the dark turn in the climate of debate. We'd all like to think it's
the other side that takes things too far.

So it's informative to read the report by professor Brian Levin of Cal State San
Bernardino's Department of Criminal Justice, and see that the political left and
right are both responsible.

Levin presented his report, based on Los Angeles Police Department data, last
week to L.A. County's Network Against Hate Crime.

It showed that the city of Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes in 2016, up 15
percent from 2015 - L.A.'s first consecutive annual increases in two decades.

Crimes motivated by the victim's identity were led last year by 54 against
blacks, 42 against gay men, 37 against Jewish people and 25 against Hispanics.

But next on the list were 12 hate crimes listed as "anti-white," up from seven
the year before.

That's more than the number of hate crimes against Muslims, or against Asians or
Pacific islanders.

Official statistics on hate crimes don't include crimes targeting members of
political groups. But violence at political demonstrations also rose in 2016 in
the heat of the presidential race, Levin said. The rising threat to civil
discourse, he said, now comes from the extreme left.

"The hard left now poses a distinct threat to the maintenance of free speech on
some California [university] campuses, like UC Berkeley, owing to their swarming
of campuses featuring bigoted or controversial speakers," Levin said in his
report.

Levin said: "Armed anti-racist, black bloc, Antifa and other hard-left partisans
... not only targeted hate groups, racist skinheads, and Alt-Right partisans,
but police, journalists, campus venues and [Donald] Trump supporters as well, a
small number of whom sometimes instigated violence."

Neither political extreme can escape responsibility. That's a hard lesson for
many to learn. Which is why it's the message that must be heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
             DONOR: United States Department of Justice Office for
          Victims of Crime (in collaboration with Legal Aid Foundation
                           of Los Angeles) ('14 '16)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000 - 99,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United States Department of Justice Office for Victims of Crime (in
collaboration with Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles) ('14 '16)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              73 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

A FOUL ACT OF HATE VS. LeBRON N-word painted on gate of hoopster's home

BYLINE: BY AMARA GRAUTSKI, NANCY DILLON and LEONARD GREENE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 455 words


LEBRON JAMES' $21 million Los Angeles home was attacked by vandals who
spray-painted the N-word on his front gate on the eve of the NBA Finals.

Detectives are investigating the Wednesday incident as a hate crime.

Cops responded to a vandalism call at 6:44 a.m. at the basketball superstar's
Brentwood home, according to the Los Angeles Police Department.

The 9,440-square-foot home is not James' primary residence, and he was not there
at the time.

James bought the home for $20.9 million in 2015.

"Oh, it's a hate crime. It's a person who has a problem with him, obviously, " a
source at LAPD's West L.A. division told The News, confirming it was the N-word.
"It's an active case right now and detectives are there, going over the scene,
looking for any video."

Investigators are hoping security footage from James' neighbors could help
identify the unknown culprits. No suspects have been identified.

The incident led James to reflect on fame, race and equality during a press
conference at the Oracle Arena in Oakland.

"No matter how much money you have, no matter how famous you are, no matter how
many people admire you, being black in America is tough," James said Wednesday.
"We have a long way to go for us as a society and for us as African-Americans
until we feel equal in America. But my family is safe, and that's what's
important."

Cops said there have not been any other recent incidents like it in the
neighborhood.

James thanked his wife, Savannah, who was in Ohio at the time, for handling the
hard questions raised by the couple's two sons in the wake of the hateful
graffiti.

"But it just goes to show that racism will always be a part of the world, a part
of America," he added. "You know hate in America, especially for
African-Americans, is living every day."

Neighbors are shaken by the vandalism.

"I am appalled and sickened by it," neighbor Mary Kay Wulf, who lives three
doors down, said as she walked by James' house with her sister.

"This is a man who should be celebrated and emulated for everything he's done to
help young people be educated and succeed in life. And to deface his house, it's
really appalling. It's a horrible event," she said.

She and her sister were born in Cleveland and grew up in a suburb of Akron close
to where James grew up, she said.

Wulf, 65, called the racial slur painted on the gate "horrific."

Another neighbor said James bought the house from a homeowner who is very tall,
and as a result, the house is custom made for very tall people. He said James
has only stayed in it a few times, mostly when he's in town to play games.

James and the Cavaliers face off against the Golden State Warriors at the Oracle
Arena Thursday at 9 p.m. This is James' seventh consecutive trip to the NBA
Finals.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LeBron James, on eve of NBA finals, said it "shows that racism will
always be a part of the world" after gate of his Los Angeles home was
spray-painted with racial slur. By Wednesday, it had been repainted (below).
GETTY; AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Daily News, L.P.


                              74 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Thieves steal $4.5 million in eyeshadow from California warehouse

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew, Los Angeles Daily News

LENGTH: 204 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wanted: Information leading to the arrest of burglars who pilfered
nearly $5 million in Anastasia Beverly Hills eyeshadow from a Chatsworth
warehouse, Los Angeles police said Thursday.


CHATSWORTH - Wanted: Information leading to the arrest of burglars who pilfered
nearly $5 million in Anastasia Beverly Hills eyeshadow from a Chatsworth
warehouse, Los Angeles police said Thursday.

Detectives were asking for the public's help in nabbing the thieves who stole
enough makeup to dab thousands of faces, according to the Los Angeles Police
Department Commercial Crimes Division Cargo-Hijack Unit.

Between Jan. 28 and Jan. 30, LAPD detectives said unknown suspects cut a hole in
the roof and broke into a warehouse located within the LAPD Devonshire Division,
where Anastasia Beverly Hills Inc. stored the cosmetics.

The thieves got away with more than 100,000 "Modern Renaissance" eyeshadow kits
valued at $4.5 million.

Sephora cosmetics on Thursday was selling the 14-shade "Modern Renaissance"
eyeshadow palette for $42 each.

Among the beauty brand's fans is Kim Kardashian.

The Anastasia Beverly Hills website said it has a warehouse located in the San
Fernando Valley neighborhood of Chatsworth.

Police asked anyone with information on the heist to call LAPD detectives Marc
Zavala, at 818-832-7510, or Jeannette Santos, at 818-832-7511; or
1-877-LAPD-24-7. Or go to lapdonline.org and click "anonymous web tips."



LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Thieves steal $4.5 million in eyeshadow from California warehouse

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew, Los Angeles Daily News

LENGTH: 204 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wanted: Information leading to the arrest of burglars who pilfered
nearly $5 million in Anastasia Beverly Hills eyeshadow from a Chatsworth
warehouse, Los Angeles police said Thursday.


CHATSWORTH - Wanted: Information leading to the arrest of burglars who pilfered
nearly $5 million in Anastasia Beverly Hills eyeshadow from a Chatsworth
warehouse, Los Angeles police said Thursday.

Detectives were asking for the public's help in nabbing the thieves who stole
enough makeup to dab thousands of faces, according to the Los Angeles Police
Department Commercial Crimes Division Cargo-Hijack Unit.

Between Jan. 28 and Jan. 30, LAPD detectives said unknown suspects cut a hole in
the roof and broke into a warehouse located within the LAPD Devonshire Division,
where Anastasia Beverly Hills Inc. stored the cosmetics.

The thieves got away with more than 100,000 "Modern Renaissance" eyeshadow kits
valued at $4.5 million.

Sephora cosmetics on Thursday was selling the 14-shade "Modern Renaissance"
eyeshadow palette for $42 each.

Among the beauty brand's fans is Kim Kardashian.

The Anastasia Beverly Hills website said it has a warehouse located in the San
Fernando Valley neighborhood of Chatsworth.

Police asked anyone with information on the heist to call LAPD detectives Marc
Zavala, at 818-832-7510, or Jeannette Santos, at 818-832-7511; or
1-877-LAPD-24-7. Or go to lapdonline.org and click "anonymous web tips."



LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 11, 2017 Saturday

Immigrant accused in fatal crash due back in court

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox; gwilcox@scng.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 196 words

ABSTRACT

Murder suspect deported five times due back in court Tuesday

FULL TEXT

An undocumented immigrant deported from the U.S. five times and accused of
killing a Valley mother in a traffic collision is due back in court Tuesday,
authorities said.

Estuardo Alvarado, 45, is scheduled to appear in Los Angeles County Superior
Court in San Fernando for the setting of a preliminary hearing date, said Deputy
Los Angeles County District Attorney Kaveh Faturechi.

Alvarado of Lakeview Terrace is facing five felony counts, including murder and
gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated. Hepleaded not guiltyat an
earlier court hearing and is being held in the Men's Central Jail on $2.23
million bail.

The collision happened on the afternoon of Feb. 19, according to the Los Angeles
Police Department.

Alvarado was heading south on Sepulveda Boulevard and was trying to pass traffic
in the lane closest to the curb when he rear-ended another vehicle, police said.

He stopped briefly and then sped south on Sepulveda and broadsided a car driven
by Sandra Duran, 42, of Arleta, near Plummer Street. Duran died at the scene and
two other people in her car were injured.

Duran had two sons.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

State has fewer arrests, but not necessarily less crime

SECTION: Y,Y; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 441 words

ABSTRACT

The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent years, but
it's not necessarily good news on crime

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in
recent years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime,
according to an analysis published Saturday.

The state saw 1.5 million arrests for misdemeanors and felonies in 2015, the
most recent year with figures available, according to the Los Angeles Times.

In Los Angeles, arrests dropped by 25 percent from 2013 to 2015, even as the
city saw a spike in crime.

There's no clear reason behind the decline.

Law enforcement officials said fewer officers and changes in strategy could be
behind some of it.

Others said increased scrutiny of officers after a series of high-profile
shootings and beatings, most involving black suspects, have led to less
motivation.

In a national survey of law enforcement officers in 2016, 72 percent said they
and their fellow officers were less likely to stop and question people because
of such incidents.

"Not to make fun of it, but a lot of guys are like, 'Look, I'm just going to act
like a fireman.' I'm going to handle my calls for service and the things that I
have to do," George Hofstetter, a motorcycle deputy for the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department and a former union leader for deputies, told the Times.
"But going out there and making traffic stops and contacting persons who may be
up to something nefarious? 'I'm not going to do that anymore.' "

Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck did not agree, saying he hasn't seen
significant hesitance.

"I'd be denying human nature if I didn't say police are very cautious about what
they do now because of the scrutiny," Beck said. "But do I see it? I don't
really see things that make me think that the workforce as a body is retreating.
I don't see that at all."

Proposition 47, a ballot measure passed by state voters in November 2014,
downgraded some felonies to misdemeanors, and many police officers told the
Times that means those arrests are often not worth the time and effort they
take.

Beck said in his city the increase has come in the most serious crimes, while
the decrease has come from drug arrests.

But he said a positive change in policing is partly behind the drop in arrests,
with less emphasis in his department on just making countless busts as was the
case decades ago.

"The only thing we cared about was how many arrests we made," Beck said. "I
don't want them to care about that. I want them to care about how safe their
community is and how healthy it is."





Information from: Los Angeles Times, http://www.latimes.com/

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             July 18, 2017 Tuesday

Police probe woman's death after body found at park

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 176 words

ABSTRACT

A woman's body was found at Reseda Park on Monday morning and authorities are
investigating the circumstances surrounding it.

FULL TEXT

Authorities were trying to determine how a woman died after her body was found
in Reseda Park on Monday morning.

Los Angeles police received a report of a woman lying down around 9:30 or 10
a.m. at the park on Victory Boulevard near Reseda Boulevard. Both the Los
Angeles Fire Department and the Los Angeles Police Department responded and
determined the woman was dead, said LAPD Officer Isaac Gomez.

"We're treating it as a homicide until we find something different, ... just in
case," added Operations-Valley Bureau Homicide Detective Bob Dinlocker.

The woman, who had yet to be identified, appeared to be in her late 20s to early
30s, Dinlocker said, adding that officers were looking for evidence,
interviewing people and canvassing the neighborhood for clues.

Investigators were waiting for the Los Angeles County Department of Medical
Examiner-Coroner to determine if the woman had any injuries, Dinlocker said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Beware at the pump: Black market fuel is making millions

BYLINE:  By BRENDAN FARRINGTON Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 662 words


TALLAHASSEE, Fla. - A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread
around the nation, with organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to
siphon millions of dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden
inside pickups and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavors,
and criminals can make $1,000 or more a day reselling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install these devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up. The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a
counterfeit card. The problem has only grown as the devices become more
sophisticated.

The black market has grown quickly in part because the thefts total a few
hundred dollars at a time, and prosecutors were slow to prioritize them. But as
fuel thefts become more organized, they have caught the attention of state and
federal authorities around the country.

Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Adam Putnam's department takes
the lead on prosecuting these crimes in Florida. He said they used to be
considered a "victimless" crime, and yet they were making more money doing this
than a lot of other criminal activities that had a lot higher sentences.

The Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved because the
gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los Angeles and
Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million gallons a year
in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gang-bangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickups and SUVs
with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day.

They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon industrial fuel tanker that made
daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to $16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal $7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation for
about five years before agents shut it down.

"Theft has been involved with fuel for as long as retailers have been selling
fuel," said Jeff Lenard, a vice president of the National Association of
Convenience Stores in Alexandria, Va., but today's criminals are "trying to
steal hundreds, if not thousands, of gallons."

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal $100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida.

Texas Comptroller Glenn Hegar has pursued sellers of black market fuel for
breaking state motor fuel tax evasion laws, securing some stiff sentences: In
2015 alone, his office worked to indict more than 100 suspected motor fuel
thieves. A Gorman, Texas, man got 40 years in 2015, and a Haskell, Texas, man
was sentenced to 10 years last August.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  This is undated photo made available by the Florida Department of
Agriculture shows a truck outfitted with a large tank used to syphon gas from
gas stations using stolen credit cards. (Larry Payne/Florida Department of
Agriculture via AP)  This is undated photo made available by the Florida
Department of Agriculture shows a truck outfitted with a large tank used to
syphon gas from gas stations using stolen credit cards. (Larry Payne/Florida
Department of Agriculture via AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Crime is back as an L.A. campaign issue

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB

FULL TEXT

Crime rates have ticked up in Los Angeles, dramatically so in the San Fernando
Valley, removing whatever complacency may have set in during years of improving
public safety.

If there's any consolation about the end-of-2016 crime reports, it's that they
come at just the right time to put the issue on the table in the campaigns for
the March 7 elections for citywide and City Council offices.

All office-holders and their election challengers must answer the question: What
are you doing - what are you going to do - to fight the resurgence of crime
here?

The numbers are worrying. In Los Angeles, violent crime of all kinds rose 10
percent in 2016 compared with 2015, the third straight year-over-year increase;
homicides rose 4 percent, and robberies rose 14 percent.

It was worse in some parts of town, including West L.A., where robberies were up
16 percent. But in few places was it worse than in the San Fernando Valley,
where violent crime was up 12 percent, homicides 14 percent, and robberies a
whopping 33 percent.

To be clear, crime in L.A. remains far below the levels of the 1990s - last
year's 294 murders across the city were a little more than one-fourth as many as
we had in 1992 amid gang and drug wars. And some kinds of crime declined in
2016.

But the upturn must be addressed before it turns into a trend.

The question of what to do about it is a good test for candidates because the
apparent causes of the new rise in crime cover so many other areas of public
policy. In news reports, law enforcement officials and experts blame a range of
factors, including: the rise in the number of homeless people, who may become
criminals (especially to feed drug hab- its) and victims; state law changes
mandating early prison releases and reducing some felonies to misdemeanors; and
LAPD deployment strategies that revive questions about whether the Valley gets
its fare share.

Mayor Eric Garcetti and six City Council members face re-election challenges in
March, while 20 candidates vie for the open District 7 seat in the Valley.

On a long list of issues to be debated, crime again is one of the biggest.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Crime is back as an L.A. campaign issue

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB

FULL TEXT

Crime rates have ticked up in Los Angeles, dramatically so in the San Fernando
Valley, removing whatever complacency may have set in during years of improving
public safety.

If there's any consolation about the end-of-2016 crime reports, it's that they
come at just the right time to put the issue on the table in the campaigns for
the March 7 elections for citywide and City Council offices.

All office-holders and their election challengers must answer the question: What
are you doing - what are you going to do - to fight the resurgence of crime
here?

The numbers are worrying. In Los Angeles, violent crime of all kinds rose 10
percent in 2016 compared with 2015, the third straight year-over-year increase;
homicides rose 4 percent, and robberies rose 14 percent.

It was worse in some parts of town, including West L.A., where robberies were up
16 percent. But in few places was it worse than in the San Fernando Valley,
where violent crime was up 12 percent, homicides 14 percent, and robberies a
whopping 33 percent.

To be clear, crime in L.A. remains far below the levels of the 1990s - last
year's 294 murders across the city were a little more than one-fourth as many as
we had in 1992 amid gang and drug wars. And some kinds of crime declined in
2016.

But the upturn must be addressed before it turns into a trend.

The question of what to do about it is a good test for candidates because the
apparent causes of the new rise in crime cover so many other areas of public
policy. In news reports, law enforcement officials and experts blame a range of
factors, including: the rise in the number of homeless people, who may become
criminals (especially to feed drug hab- its) and victims; state law changes
mandating early prison releases and reducing some felonies to misdemeanors; and
LAPD deployment strategies that revive questions about whether the Valley gets
its fare share.

Mayor Eric Garcetti and six City Council members face re-election challenges in
March, while 20 candidates vie for the open District 7 seat in the Valley.

On a long list of issues to be debated, crime again is one of the biggest.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             July 20, 2017 Thursday

Pot shops don't spark crime, study says;
UCI professors find an increase in low-level offenses after shops close

BYLINE: Brooke Staggs; bstaggs@scng.com @JournoBrooke on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

ABSTRACT

Conventional wisdom says marijuana dispensaries make neighborhoods less safe,
but a new study from UC Irvine suggests the conventional wisdom is wrong.

FULL TEXT

Conventional wisdom says marijuana dispensaries make neighborhoods less safe,
but a new study from UC Irvine suggests the conventional wisdom is wrong and
that crime increases after cities move to close pot shops.

"Given all the pretty strong rhetoric about dispensaries generating or at least
attracting crime, it was not the result we expected," said Mireille Jacobson, a
health economics professor at UCI who studied the data with colleague Tom Chang.
"But I feel comfortable saying it's very unlikely that these places are crime
magnets."

Dispensaries seem to behave in this respect much like res

taurants and other mainstream businesses, Jacobson said, helping to deter
vehicle break-ins and other low-level crimes simply by putting more bystanders
on the streets.

The study was intentionally narrow in its focus, examining the impact of
widespread closures that took place on a single day in Los Angeles. So it
couldn't account for violent crimes such as murder or arson, according to
Jacobson, since they aren't common enough to show up in the window of time she
and Chang analyzed.

The study also didn't attempt to factor in how marijuana dispensaries might
impact local quality of life - either for the better, by offering alternatives
to addictive drugs such as opiates, or for the negative, by increasing problems
such as loitering and traffic.

Future research on those areas is crucial before broad conclusions on how
cannabis shops impact crime can be locked down, the report states.

But Jacobson hopes her study might lead to more fact-based policy discussions as
California gets ready to launch recreational marijuana sales on Jan. 1.

The study

Inspiration for the study goes back to 2010. Jacobson was living in Venice and
noticed that dispensaries all over town were being shut down as Los Angeles
attempted to rein in its massive medical marijuana market.

The talk at the time was largely about how these stores made neighborhoods less
safe, with reports by the Los Angeles Police Department that blamed crime rate
increases in the mid-2000s on the city's explosion of pot shops.

Even today, while 90 percent of Americans support people's right to use medical
marijuana, the same polls show 44 percent said they would be "somewhat or very
concerned" if a dispensary opened near them.

Only one city in Orange County allows medical marijuana dispensaries, while just
a handful of cities permit such shops in Riverside and San Bernardino counties.
And many law enforcement agencies and policymakers cite public safety concerns
when explaining their opposition to allowing marijuana activities in their
boundaries.

"This town has been a town of safety. And we're trying with this initiative to
make sure that we keep our residents safe," said Fontana Mayor Acquanetta Warren
just before she helped vote in one of the most restrictive cannabis policies in
the state.

Jacobson had never studied the marijuana industry before 2010. But given how
tough it is both to pinpoint definite causes for changes in crime rates and to
study then-unregulated dispensaries, she saw the scenario that was unfolding in
Los Angeles as the perfect test for a simple premise.

"If these dispensaries truly were crime magnets, we'd expect to see a sharp
decrease in crime when they shut down," Jacobson said.

On June 7, 2010, roughly 70 percent of the nearly 600 shops operating in Los
Angeles were ordered to close.

Jacobson and Chang used data collected by the Los Angeles Times to analyze crime
rates before and after shops shut down, comparing those numbers to neighborhoods
where shops were allowed to stay open. Though they looked at 60 days of data,
Jacobson said they limited their main focus to a 20-day window because many of
the closures were temporary. Once it became clear that the city wasn't going to
enforce its ban, dispensaries started to randomly reopen.

The professors found a 12 percent to 14 percent increase in property crimes
within a third of a mile surrounding the shuttered pot shops. At a fourth of a
mile out, they study found a 14 percent to 16 percent increase in crime. And at
an eighth of a mile, the study found a 23 percent to 24 percent increase in
low-level crimes once dispensaries were shut down.

Based on those numbers, the study says one open dispensary might save the
neighborhood more than $30,000 each year by preventing petty thefts.

The Los Angeles Police Department said it hadn't had a chance to review the UC
Irvine study and so couldn't comment on its findings. And a spokesman for the
department's union, the Los Angeles Police Protective League, declined to weigh
in on how these results jive with what their officers see in the field.

The explanation

Jacobson and Chang wanted to better understand what caused the spike in crime
after dispensaries shut down. So they analyzed the same data on another type of
business that faces similar circumstances.

When restaurants are temporarily shut down due to health code violations, the
study found nearly identical increases in low-level crimes as what they saw in
connection with dispensaries. The pattern suggests that it's not pot shops in
particular that help deter crime, but just about any type of business that
brings more people to a neighborhood.

It's known as the "eyes upon the street" theory, framed in a 1961 book by urban
activist Jane Jacobs. The idea is that streets are safer when more people are
around to keep an eye on what's happening.

Dispensaries may have some added cushions against increased crime, the study
says. They tend to have security cameras and security guards on their property.
They may draw more regular police patrols. And there's data to show that
marijuana use might reduce aggressive behavior.

Though dispensaries sell a unique product, Jacobson said mounting evidence
suggests policymakers can safely regulate them much as they do other small
businesses.

"It seems to me that we don't report on the crime at Starbucks or 7-Eleven or
other businesses in the same way that we report on crime around dispensaries
because people are interested in that," she said. "It's fine to talk about how
you need to regulate dispensaries, but you don't need to throw these scare
tactics out there."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                            All but Toronto Edition

Black-market fuel thriving in U.S

BYLINE: TALLAHASSEE, FLA., The Associated Press

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. FP3

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, FLA.


A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread around the U.S., with
organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to siphon millions of
dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden inside pickup trucks
and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavours,
and criminals can make US$1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install these devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up. The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a
counterfeit card.

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons (76 million litres) a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gangbangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate how much money
even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to US$16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal US$7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation
for about five years.

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal US$100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida. In
other cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another
pumps diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All
rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 999 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                                National Edition

Black-market fuel thriving in U.S

BYLINE: Brendan Farrington, The Associated Press

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. FP3

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, FLA.


A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread around the U.S., with
organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to siphon millions of
dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden inside pickup trucks
and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavours,
and criminals can make US$1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install these devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up. The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a
counterfeit card.

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons (76 million litres) a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gangbangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate how much money
even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to US$16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal US$7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation
for about five years.

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal US$100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida. In
other cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another
pumps diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

The Associated Press !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             June 15, 2017 Thursday

Man who was killed after van was hit with gunfire identified

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 249 words

ABSTRACT

A man who was fatally shot while driving a van in the Panorama City area Friday
was identified as a 25-year-old from Los Angeles today but his killer has not
been found.

FULL TEXT

A man who died after the van he was driving was riddled with gunfire was
identified Wednesday.

Victor Garcia, 25, of Los Angeles, died early Friday morning in the 14700 block
of West Plummer Street in Panorama City, where he was the fatal victim of an
apparent gang-related shooting that left two others injured, according to the
Los Angeles County coroner's office.

It was unclear if the shots were fired from another vehicle or by someone
standing near the van as it passed by, police said.

Two of Garcia's passengers - who were riding in the back of the van - were
injured when the vehicle crashed.

A suspect has not been arrested.

Two of the four victims were gang members, and all - who ranged in age between
25 and 35 years old - were living in the San Fernando Valley, police said.

The motive for the shooting was unknown.

Police closeda stretch of Plummer Street between Van Nuys Boulevard and Natick
Avenue, a residential area with bungalow homes, for several hours Friday as
authorities removed the Garcia's body from the van and tow trucks prepared to
remove the damaged vehicles.

Neighbors previously said they did not hear the early morning pop of gunfire.

Anyone with information on the case was urged to call 877-LAPD-247
(877-527-3247).

Reporter Wes Woods and City News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            October 20, 2017 Friday

Italian model-actress accuses Weinstein of rape;
L.A. police investigating 2013 incident at Beverly Hills hotel

BYLINE: Richard Winton and Victoria Kim Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


An Italian model-actress met with Los Angeles police detectives for more than
two hours Thursday morning, providing a detailed account of new allegations that
movie mogul Harvey Weinstein sexually assaulted her at a hotel in 2013.

She is the sixth woman to accuse Weinstein of rape or forcible sex acts. LAPD
Capt. Billy Hayes confirmed that the department has launched an investigation
into the matter.

It is the first case related to Weinstein to be reported in southern California.
New York police already have two active sex crime probes and London police are
investigating allegations made by three women. The new allegation could be
legally troubling for Weinstein because it falls within the 10-year statute of
limitations for the crime that existed at the time of the alleged incident,
legal experts say. It could "open the door to a prosecution if the evidence
exists," said defence attorney Dmitry Gorin, a former L.A. sex crimes
prosecutor.

In the latest case, the 38-year-old woman, who has asked not to be named because
she is fearful of retaliation and concerned about protecting her children's
privacy, first contacted police on Tuesday, through her attorney.

She said the incident occurred at Mr. C Beverly Hills hotel after she attended
the 8th annual Los Angeles, Italia Film, Fashion and Art Fest in February 2013.
She had previously met Weinstein once, briefly, in Rome after being introduced
by an acquaintance. At that time, he invited her up to his hotel room, but she
said she declined. She said they spoke briefly at the film festival, but he
didn't appear to recall meeting her. Later, he showed up "without warning" in
the lobby of her hotel. Soon, he was knocking at her door.

"He . . . bullied his way into my hotel room, saying, 'I'm not going to f---
you, I just want to talk,' " the woman said. "Once inside, he asked me questions
about myself, but soon became very aggressive and demanding and kept asking to
see me naked. He grabbed me by the hair and forced me to do something I did not
want to do. He then dragged me to the bathroom and forcibly raped me."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              87 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Crime is back as an L.A. campaign issue

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB

FULL TEXT

Crime rates have ticked up in Los Angeles, dramatically so in the San Fernando
Valley, removing whatever complacency may have set in during years of improving
public safety.

If there's any consolation about the end-of-2016 crime reports, it's that they
come at just the right time to put the issue on the table in the campaigns for
the March 7 elections for citywide and City Council offices.

All office-holders and their election challengers must answer the question: What
are you doing - what are you going to do - to fight the resurgence of crime
here?

The numbers are worrying. In Los Angeles, violent crime of all kinds rose 10
percent in 2016 compared with 2015, the third straight year-over-year increase;
homicides rose 4 percent, and robberies rose 14 percent.

It was worse in some parts of town, including West L.A., where robberies were up
16 percent. But in few places was it worse than in the San Fernando Valley,
where violent crime was up 12 percent, homicides 14 percent, and robberies a
whopping 33 percent.

To be clear, crime in L.A. remains far below the levels of the 1990s - last
year's 294 murders across the city were a little more than one-fourth as many as
we had in 1992 amid gang and drug wars. And some kinds of crime declined in
2016.

But the upturn must be addressed before it turns into a trend.

The question of what to do about it is a good test for candidates because the
apparent causes of the new rise in crime cover so many other areas of public
policy. In news reports, law enforcement officials and experts blame a range of
factors, including: the rise in the number of homeless people, who may become
criminals (especially to feed drug hab- its) and victims; state law changes
mandating early prison releases and reducing some felonies to misdemeanors; and
LAPD deployment strategies that revive questions about whether the Valley gets
its fare share.

Mayor Eric Garcetti and six City Council members face re-election challenges in
March, while 20 candidates vie for the open District 7 seat in the Valley.

On a long list of issues to be debated, crime again is one of the biggest.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                              May 26, 2017 Friday

Hate crimes, hate groups on the rise in California

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 739 words

ABSTRACT

joe d. Long Beach version of HATE CRIMES story

FULL TEXT

Fueled by politics and a heated election year, more hate crimes, civil conflicts
and violent confrontations were reported in California's largest cities last
year compared to 2015, according to recent data discussed Thursday.

The 14 percent increase in overall hate crimes across the Golden State included
a threat against a mosque in Fresno in which someone stated "President Trump is
going to cleanse America and do to Muslims what Hitler did to the Jews," and a
spike in vandalism in Orange County, according to a special status report by the
Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San
Bernardino. Changing demographics, lack of civic cohesion and distrust toward
law enforcement that resulted in  protests also contributed to the growth in
those crimes, according to the report.  Presented in West Hollywood, the report
concluded that overall hate crimes in nine of California's largest cities rose
to a total of 354 in 2016, up from 2015's total of 310.

The data were provided by local law enforcement agencies and will likely
increase as more information for 2016 is released, said Brian Levin, a terrorism
expert and professor at California State University, San Bernardino who authored
the report. If the rise in hate crimes for 2016 holds, then it will be the first
year in two decades where California experienced back-to-back consecutive annual
increases, since 2015 also showed a spike from the year before, he noted.

Among the California cities examined, Los Angeles and San Jose showed what Levin
called notable growth of hate crimes during the election time period compared to
previous months or with the same time period in 2015.

Los Angeles had a 29 percent increase in the fourth quarter of 2016, when
compared with the previous year, while San Jose saw its numbers of hate crimes
triple from 3 to 9 during that same period, according to the report.

Numbers provided by police show that Long Beach also recently saw a spike in
hate crimes.

Eight were reported in the first two months of 2017. That was a dramatic uptick
from 2016 when detectives only investigated eight hate crimes during the whole
year, according to the Long Beach Police Department.

There were 12 hate crimes reported in Long Beach during 2015, according to the
department.

Long Beach police said the crimes this year included bomb threats at local
Jewish centers, a car spray-painted with "derogatory comments regarding the
victim's sexuality," and a driver who may have tried to hit two Hispanic women
with her car while yelling racial slurs.

Cal State Long Beach has also seen a recent spate of hate-related incidents.

Three times this year, racist fliers promoting white supremacy or white
nationalism have appeared on campus. In April, someone pasted up posters
featuring swastikas and anti-Semitic slogans.

"It's certainly safe to say that there's been an uptick in the distribution of
illegal, hateful posters on campus," said Terri Carbaugh, a university
spokeswoman.In California, a hate crime is "a criminal act of intimidation,
harassment, physical force or threat toward a person or property because of
someone's actual or perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, ancestry,
religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability."

"We saw a definite spike," Levin said, of Los Angeles, which tends to drive the
data for the rest of the state.

The report also found:

o Hate crimes based on race, ethnicity and sexual orientation rose 15 percent in
Los Angeles but religion-based hate crimes decreased.

o Los Angeles had 230 hate crimes, the third highest number any city in the
nation in 2016 behind New York, which had 380 and Boston, which reported 275.

o California has the largest number and an increasing level of hate groups.

But what was also notable were the number of violent confrontations and arrests
as a result of political intolerance at university campuses and pro-Trump
rallies, Levin said. Extremists on both sides of the political discussion have
emerged as the driving force behind those arrests.

Last June, there people 14 injured and 106 people facing charges as a result of
a clash Sacramento between groups who describe themselves as Alt-Right,
skinheads and  Antifa. Assaults, vandalism, and derogatory remarks based on
politics are not considered hate crimes, but Levin said the far left groups
should be watched closely.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              May 4, 2017 Thursday

Man accused of kidnapping girlfriend Driver in fatal DUI crash denies charges
Gas station robbery nets culprit $50

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 295 words

ABSTRACT

crime briefs from the San Gabriel Valley Tribune and Whittier areas

FULL TEXT

An East L.A. man is accused of kidnapping and domestic violence after witnesses
reported seeing him force his girlfriend into a car in Duarte on Wednesday
afternoon, officials said.

Deputies first responded to the area of Millbrae and Central avenues about 1:45
p.m., Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John McClure said. Witnesses reported
seeing a man forcing a woman into a car before driving off.

Deputies soon identified the possible suspect and headed to his home on Ferguson
Drive in East Los Angeles, on the border between Commerce and East Los Angeles,
McClure said.

The man and the woman complied with deputies' orders to come out of the home
about 5 p.m., he said.

The woman told deputies she had not been the victim of a crime, McClure said.
But based on witness accounts, deputies arrested the man on suspicion of
kidnapping and domestic violence.

A driver on Wednesday denied he was under the influence of a drug when he
crashed into a light pole in West Covina. One of his passengers died and two
were injured in the weekend crash.

Andrew Gomez, 19, of La Puente pleaded not guilty to gross vehicular
manslaughter while intoxicated, driving a vehicle without a valid license and
two counts of driving under the influence of a drug causing injury,.

A man who robbed a gas station Wednesday left with $50.

Sgt. Eddie Lopez of the sheriff's Industry station said nobody was injured
during the robbery at the Mobil gas station, 1004 N. Hacienda Blvd.

A man entered the gas station at around 9:50 a.m. and brandished a gun. The
clerk put money in a bag and handed it over, according to Lopez.

The suspect, described as a Latino in his 40s, fled in a burgundy van or sport
utility vehicle.



LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Crime is back as an L.A. campaign issue

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB

FULL TEXT

Crime rates have ticked up in Los Angeles, dramatically so in the San Fernando
Valley, removing whatever complacency may have set in during years of improving
public safety.

If there's any consolation about the end-of-2016 crime reports, it's that they
come at just the right time to put the issue on the table in the campaigns for
the March 7 elections for citywide and City Council offices.

All office-holders and their election challengers must answer the question: What
are you doing - what are you going to do - to fight the resurgence of crime
here?

The numbers are worrying. In Los Angeles, violent crime of all kinds rose 10
percent in 2016 compared with 2015, the third straight year-over-year increase;
homicides rose 4 percent, and robberies rose 14 percent.

It was worse in some parts of town, including West L.A., where robberies were up
16 percent. But in few places was it worse than in the San Fernando Valley,
where violent crime was up 12 percent, homicides 14 percent, and robberies a
whopping 33 percent.

To be clear, crime in L.A. remains far below the levels of the 1990s - last
year's 294 murders across the city were a little more than one-fourth as many as
we had in 1992 amid gang and drug wars. And some kinds of crime declined in
2016.

But the upturn must be addressed before it turns into a trend.

The question of what to do about it is a good test for candidates because the
apparent causes of the new rise in crime cover so many other areas of public
policy. In news reports, law enforcement officials and experts blame a range of
factors, including: the rise in the number of homeless people, who may become
criminals (especially to feed drug hab- its) and victims; state law changes
mandating early prison releases and reducing some felonies to misdemeanors; and
LAPD deployment strategies that revive questions about whether the Valley gets
its fare share.

Mayor Eric Garcetti and six City Council members face re-election challenges in
March, while 20 candidates vie for the open District 7 seat in the Valley.

On a long list of issues to be debated, crime again is one of the biggest.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Black market diesel, gas making millions

BYLINE: BRENDAN FARRINGTON Associated Press

SECTION: D; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words


TALLAHASSEE, Fla. - A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread
around the nation, with organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to
siphon millions of dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden
inside pickup trucks and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavors,
and criminals can make $1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install these devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up. The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a
counterfeit card. The problem has only grown as the devices become more
sophisticated.

The black market has grown quickly in part because the thefts total a few
hundred dollars at a time, and prosecutors were slow to prioritize them. But as
fuel thefts become more organized, they have caught the attention of state and
federal authorities around the country.

Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Adam Putnam's department takes
the lead on prosecuting these crimes in Florida. He said they used to be
considered a "victimless" or "slap-on-the-wrist-type crime, and yet they were
making more money doing this than a lot of other criminal activities that had a
lot higher sentences."

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gang-bangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to $16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal $7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation for
about five years before agents shut it down.

"Theft has been involved with fuel for as long as retailers have been selling
fuel," said Jeff Lenard, a vice president of the National Association of
Convenience Stores in Alexandria, Virginia, but today's criminals are "trying to
steal hundreds, if not thousands, of gallons."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2017 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            March 11, 2017 Saturday

Immigrant due in court Tuesday in murder case

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox; gwilcox@scng.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 198 words

ABSTRACT

Murder suspect deported five times due back in court Tuesday

FULL TEXT

An undocumented immigrant deported from the U.S. five times and accused of
killing a San Fernando Valley mother in a traffic accident is due back in court
Tuesday, authorities said.

Estuardo Alvarado, 45, is scheduled to appear in Los Angeles County Superior
Court in San Fernando for the setting of a preliminary hearing date, said Deputy
Los Angeles County District Attorney Kaveh Faturechi.

Alvarado, of Lakeview Terrace, is facing five felony counts, including murder
and gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated. Hepleaded not guiltyat an
earlier court hearing and is being held in the Men's Central Jail on $2.23
million bail.

The accident happened the afternoon of Feb. 19, according to the Los Angeles
Police Department.

Alvarado was heading south on Sepulveda Boulevard and was trying to pass traffic
in the lane closest to the curb when he rear-ended another vehicle, police said.

He stopped briefly and then sped south on Sepulveda and broadsided a car driven
by Sandra Duran, 42, of Arleta, near Plummer Street. Duran died at the scene and
two other people in her car were injured.

Duran had two sons.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             March 9, 2017 Thursday

Deputy's role in finding mosque arsonist garners anti-hate award;
Yadira Perez among several to be honored by the Anti-Defamation League

BYLINE: Alex Groves; agroves@scng.com AlexDGroves on Twitter

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words

ABSTRACT

brian v................RPE-L-DEPUTYAWARDED-0309 | A Riverside County sheriff's
deputy is being awarded the "Helene & Joseph Sherwood Family Prize for Combating
Hate" by the Anti Defamation League for her work in identifying a suspect in a
2015 Coachella Valley mosque arson.Reporter/Editor: Groves/JohnsonLength:
11"ETA: 2 p.m.MM summary - The deputy provided information that led to the
arrest of a suspect in a intentionally-set blaze at a Coachella mosque.All names
are CQ.

FULL TEXT

A Riverside County sheriff's deputy will receive an award from the
Anti-Defamation League for her help in identifying the person behind a Coachella
Valley mosque arson in 2015.

Deputy Yadira Perez will be presented with the Helene & Joseph Sherwood Family
Prize for Combating Hate during a ceremony at the Skirball Cultural Center in
Los Angeles on Tuesday, according to an ADL news release.

Perez was off duty Dec. 11, 2015, when she happened upon smoke coming from the
Masjid Ibrahim Mosque in Coachella, ADL officials say.

She saw a man run from the location, and her description of him led to an
arrest, the ADL said. Carl James Dial of Desert Shores pleaded guilty in early
2016 to an arson charge as part of an agreement with the Riverside County
District Attorney's Office.

The award is for law enforcement officers, agencies and programs that fight
extremism, impact hate crime victims or exemplify innovative approaches to
enforcing or prosecuting hate crimes.

Imam Reymundo Nour of the Islamic Center of Coachella Valley is expected to
speak as Perez accepts the award next week. Perez is one of three individual
honorees.

The others are El Cajon police Officer Michael Louie and Cindy Cipriani, a
director of community outreach for the U.S. Attorney's Office, Southern District
of California. Two groups of law enforcement agencies will also be honored.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, Los Angeles Field
Division; Los Angeles City Attorney's Office; and Los Angeles police officers
will be honored for their effort to take down members of the San Fernando Valley
Peckerwoods, a white-supremacist group suspected in drug and weapons trafficking
and other crimes.

The Los Angeles Field Division of the FBI; Orange County Resident Agency; Orange
County Intelligence Assessment Center; and U.S. Attorney's Office, Central
District of California will also be honored for their interception and
prosecution of two Anaheim men who planned to travel to Syria and fight for
ISIS.

The cost to attend the awards luncheon is $45.

Information: la.adl .org/event/2017-sherwood -prize-for-combating-hate.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             March 9, 2017 Thursday

Deputy's role in finding mosque arsonist garners anti-hate award;
Yadira Perez among several to be honored by the Anti-Defamation League

BYLINE: Alex Groves; agroves@scng.com AlexDGroves on Twitter

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words

ABSTRACT

brian v................RPE-L-DEPUTYAWARDED-0309 | A Riverside County sheriff's
deputy is being awarded the "Helene & Joseph Sherwood Family Prize for Combating
Hate" by the Anti Defamation League for her work in identifying a suspect in a
2015 Coachella Valley mosque arson.Reporter/Editor: Groves/JohnsonLength:
11"ETA: 2 p.m.MM summary - The deputy provided information that led to the
arrest of a suspect in a intentionally-set blaze at a Coachella mosque.All names
are CQ.

FULL TEXT

A Riverside County sheriff's deputy will receive an award from the
Anti-Defamation League for her help in identifying the person behind a Coachella
Valley mosque arson in 2015.

Deputy Yadira Perez will be presented with the Helene & Joseph Sherwood Family
Prize for Combating Hate during a ceremony at the Skirball Cultural Center in
Los Angeles on Tuesday, according to an ADL news release.

Perez was off duty Dec. 11, 2015, when she happened upon smoke coming from the
Masjid Ibrahim Mosque in Coachella, ADL officials say.

She saw a man run from the location, and her description of him led to an
arrest, the ADL said. Carl James Dial of Desert Shores pleaded guilty in early
2016 to an arson charge as part of an agreement with the Riverside County
District Attorney's Office.

The award is for law enforcement officers, agencies and programs that fight
extremism, impact hate crime victims or exemplify innovative approaches to
enforcing or prosecuting hate crimes.

Imam Reymundo Nour of the Islamic Center of Coachella Valley is expected to
speak as Perez accepts the award next week. Perez is one of three individual
honorees.

The others are El Cajon police Officer Michael Louie and Cindy Cipriani, a
director of community outreach for the U.S. Attorney's Office, Southern District
of California. Two groups of law enforcement agencies will also be honored.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, Los Angeles Field
Division; Los Angeles City Attorney's Office; and Los Angeles police officers
will be honored for their effort to take down members of the San Fernando Valley
Peckerwoods, a white-supremacist group suspected in drug and weapons trafficking
and other crimes.

The Los Angeles Field Division of the FBI; Orange County Resident Agency; Orange
County Intelligence Assessment Center; and U.S. Attorney's Office, Central
District of California will also be honored for their interception and
prosecution of two Anaheim men who planned to travel to Syria and fight for
ISIS.

The cost to attend the awards luncheon is $45.

Information: la.adl .org/event/2017-sherwood -prize-for-combating-hate.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Black market fuel is making millions

BYLINE: BRENDAN FARRINGTON The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 825 words


TALLAHASSEE, Fla. - A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread
around the nation, with organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to
siphon millions of dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden
inside pickup trucks and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavors,
and criminals can make $1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts said.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install these devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up. The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a
counterfeit card. The problem has only grown as the devices become more
sophisticated.

The black market has grown quickly in part because the thefts total a few
hundred dollars at a time, and prosecutors were slow to prioritize them. But as
fuel thefts become more organized, they have caught the attention of state and
federal authorities around the country.

Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Adam Putnam's department takes
the lead on prosecuting these crimes in Florida. He said they used to be
considered a "victimless" or "slap-on-the-wrist-type crime, and yet they were
making more money doing this than a lot of other criminal activities that had a
lot higher sentences."

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince said Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gang-bangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to $16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal $7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation for
about five years before agents shut it down.

"Theft has been involved with fuel for as long as retailers have been selling
fuel," said Jeff Lenard, a vice president of the National Association of
Convenience Stores in Alexandria, Virginia, but today's criminals are "trying to
steal hundreds, if not thousands, of gallons."

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal $100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida. In other
cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another pumps
diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

Texas Comptroller Glenn Hegar has pursued sellers of black market fuel for
breaking state motor fuel tax evasion laws, securing some stiff sentences: In
2015 alone, his office worked to indict more than 100 suspected motor fuel
thieves. A Gorman, Texas, man got 40 years in 2015, and a Haskell, Texas, man
was sentenced to 10 years last August.

There are ways of foiling these thieves, including security devices that can
shut down a pump if someone tampers with it. It's an expensive arms race, but in
addition to the economic impact, there are safety concerns.

In 2014, a convicted fuel thief's van exploded as he filled a secret tank in
Miami-Dade County. In 2015, a man driving a truck carrying 1,650 gallons of
stolen diesel led police on a high-speed chase, weaving in and out of traffic on
Interstate 5 before crashing into a highway barrier.

"God forbid that hits a school bus with a bunch of kids on it," said Ned Bowman,
executive director of the Florida Petroleum and Convenience Store Association.
"A car full of that much fuel is like a bomb going down the street."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

Slain officer among Memorial honorees;
Keith Boyer, killed in line of duty in February, honored by county at event

BYLINE: Christopher Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words


LOS ANGELES >> Slain Whittier police Officer Keith Boyer was one of six Los
Angeles County peace officers honored Wednesday at the 48th annual Los Angeles
County Peace Officers' Memorial.

With the six additions presented Wednesday, the new Memorial Wall at the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Eugene W. Biscailuz Regional Training
Center grew to 515 names of peace officers from across the county killed in
action as far back as the 1850s.

Boyer was the most recent officer killed to be honored at the ceremony. The
veteran Whittier police officer was slain in a shootout in February.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper spoke about Boyer at the ceremony.

"(Keith) was an intelligent, inspiring, compassionate person who provided
exceptional public service for nearly 30 years, and like those heroes on the
wall behind me, he will never be forgotten," Piper said.

The Whittier Police Department honored Boyer last week by memorializing him on
the Whittier Police Memorial statue in front of the police station.

Piper criticized state legislation - most notably AB 109 and Proposition 47 -
that he said allowed Boyer's alleged killer, Michael Christopher Mejia, 26, of
Los Angeles, to be on the street.

Adopted in 2011, AB 109 allows state prisoners up for parole as of Oct. 1, 2011,
to be eligible for post-release community supervision, and Prop. 47 reduces
several drug-related crimes from felonies to misdemeanors.

Boyer's alleged killer, Piper said, was free on post-release community
supervision and had been jailed six times since June 2016 for drug-related
crimes and held in county jail for 10 days each time, the maximum time allowed.

"It's a fallacy to believe our criminal justice reforms are serving the best
interests of anyone but the recycled criminal," Piper said. "This isn't about
locking people up. This is about policymakers addressing shortcomings and
failures of our current system and having the fortitude to do what's right."

Researchers of AB 109 and California's other prison reform bills have said there
is no evidence of increases in violent crime across the state as a result of
their passage.

Don Clark, Boyer's stepfather, said he appreciated the ceremony and the effort
to honor all fallen officers, but no efforts to honor Boyer would bring him
back.

"These guys deserve so much more," Clark said. "It's still quite an open wound
for us."

Sheriff's Sgt. Steven Owen and Sgt. Alfonso Lopez, both of whom were also killed
in the line of duty since last year's ceremony, were honored alongside Boyer.
Three others killed in decades past, but who had gone unrecognized, were also
recognized on the memorial: Deputy Marshal Frederick Moore, sheriff's Deputy
Arthur Solomon and sheriff's Constable Charles Winston.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell praised Owen and Lopez for their dedication to their
duties. He said the sacrifices of all the honorees should cause people to give
thanks for what police officers risk on a daily basis.

"Collectively across our county, during this contentious political time, we can
take the time to pause and reflect on the positive role that police play in all
of our lives every minute of every day," McDonnell said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 11, 2017 Saturday

Man and woman, believed to be part of same gang, arrested

BYLINE: Wes Woods; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 344 words

ABSTRACT

The offenses unfolded around 7:25 p.m. at Sherman Way and Allott Avenue when the
Los Angeles Police Department's Metropolitan Division worked extra patrol for
violent crimes, said LAPD Lt. Gregory Hoyte.

FULL TEXT

A man and a woman, believed to be in the same gang, were arrested separately
Thursday night in connection with various crimes, including a gun, drugs and
driving a stolen truck in Van Nuys, authorities said.

The offenses unfolded around 7:25 p.m. at Sherman Way and Allott Avenue when the
Los Angeles Police Department's Metropolitan Division worked extra patrols for
violent crimes, said LAPD Lt. Gregory Hoyte.

When officers pulled into the area, described as a high crime area with a motel
nearby, they saw several male individuals scatter, Hoyte said.

One man was carrying a bag and grabbing his waistband as he ran away, Hoyte
explained, and officers dashed after him.

During the foot pursuit, officers observed him removing a handgun from his
waistband and tossing it over the fence of a local business before he continued
running, Hoyte said.

After he stopped to confront the officers, they were able to detain him after he
put up a "minor resistance" and found a loaded handgun, Hoyte said.

The man also had a bag with a spare loaded magazine for the handgun, Hoyte said,
and a "sizable" amount of crystal meth.

Additionally, the man was a documented gang member who was on probation for
narcotics and weapons charges.

While the first unit was chasing the man, a Metro unit went to the scene and saw
a woman try to enter a 2007 truck with paper plates on it, the lieutenant noted.

She was trying to drive away from the vicinity where the males had ran from,
Hoyte said, and was detained after officers learned the truck was a stolen
vehicle out of North Hollywood.

Hoyte added the woman was in a gang and had previously been convicted for a
grand theft auto.

"I can't say she was the one that stole it," Hoyte said. "But she was trying to
drive a stolen truck."

Both the man and the woman, who are believed to be in the gang, were arrested,
Hoyte said.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday

san fernando valley crimes

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 129 words

ABSTRACT

Crime statistics from the Los Angeles Police Department for the San Fernando
Valley in 2016, 2015 and 2014.

FULL TEXT

 2016 2015 2014

Violent crimes

o Homicide 65 57 50

o Total rape 490 507 424

o Robbery 2,085 1,571 1,413

o Aggravated Assaults 3,703 3,506 2,545

o Total 6,343 5,641 4,432

Property crimes

o Burglary 6,008 5,969 5,128

o Motor vehicle theft 5,514 4,868 4,150

o Personal/other theft 10,699 10,659 10,110

o Total property 33,281 31,472 27,929

o Child/spousal abuse 4,638 4,982 4,276

o Shots fired 416 439 329

o Shooting victims 174 154 121

Arrests

o Homicide 75 63 39

o Rape 106 83 56

o Robbery 637 504 517

o Aggravated Assault 2,789 2,589 2,621

o Burglary 609 566 935

o Motor Vehicle Theft 1,031 826 667

o Total all arrests 32,155 34,942 40,0651

Source: Los Angeles Police Department

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 7, 2017 Saturday

san fernando valley crimes

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 129 words

ABSTRACT

Crime statistics from the Los Angeles Police Department for the San Fernando
Valley in 2016, 2015 and 2014.

FULL TEXT

 2016 2015 2014

Violent crimes

o Homicide 65 57 50

o Total rape 490 507 424

o Robbery 2,085 1,571 1,413

o Aggravated Assaults 3,703 3,506 2,545

o Total 6,343 5,641 4,432

Property crimes

o Burglary 6,008 5,969 5,128

o Motor vehicle theft 5,514 4,868 4,150

o Personal/other theft 10,699 10,659 10,110

o Total property 33,281 31,472 27,929

o Child/spousal abuse 4,638 4,982 4,276

o Shots fired 416 439 329

o Shooting victims 174 154 121

Arrests

o Homicide 75 63 39

o Rape 106 83 56

o Robbery 637 504 517

o Aggravated Assault 2,789 2,589 2,621

o Burglary 609 566 935

o Motor Vehicle Theft 1,031 826 667

o Total all arrests 32,155 34,942 40,0651

Source: Los Angeles Police Department

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Robberies and aggravated assaults climb in first half of 2016

BYLINE: Stephanie K. Baer; sbaer@scng.com @skbaer on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 650 words


Violent crime in Pasadena appeared to rise for the second straight year, though
some categories of violent offenses saw a decrease or no change in the first
half of 2016, according to statistics released by the FBI this week.

Robberies increased by about 18percent - from 66to 78 percent- between January
and June of last year as compared to the same time period in 2015, according to
the FBI's Preliminary Semiannual Uniform Crime Report. The city saw 29percent
more aggravated assaults from 109to 141.

As in the first six months of 2015, Pasadena saw just one murder or
non-negligent manslaughter between January and June 2016. There were 25 percent
fewer rapes reported, down to 21from 28 percent, during that period, according
to the report.

Overall, violent crime increased by about 18percent in Pasadena during the first
six months of 2016, though more recent, preliminary figures from the department
show less of an uptick across the entire year. Nationwide, law enforcement
agencies saw a 5.3percent increase in violent crime, according to the FBI
report, which was based on statistics from more than 11,000 law enforcement
agencies but only provided crime rates for cities with populations of more than
100,000.

"There's probably more people that were formerly incarcerated that are out on
the street now," said Pasadena Police Chief Phillip Sanchez, referring to recent
legislation law enforcement officials often point to as causes for increases in
crime. "It's kind of the age old challenges that we face with recidivism."

Sanchez and police chiefs in El Monte and West Covina, which saw violent crime
increases of about 17percent and 20.7percent, respectively, attributed the rise
in violent offenses to a combination of social factors, like the economy and
housing, as well as AB 109 and Proposition 47.

Signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown in 2011, AB 109 mandated the early release
of nonviolent, nonserious, and nonsex offenders and Prop 47, which was approved
by voters in 2014, turned some felony offenses into misdemeanors.

But criminologists say it is too soon to say whether Prop 47 had any impact on
the increase in violent crime across the state.

"We don't know if these increases are being done by Prop 47ers because we
haven't evaluated it," said UC Irvine professor Charis Kubrinof the department
of criminology, law and society.

When it comes to AB 109, Kubrin said her research shows the law had no impact on
violent crime and a small impact on property crime.

She said an uptick in gang violence in Los Angeles County and the city of Los
Angeles, in particular, have been major drivers behind increased violent crime.

"It's hard to parse out exactly what the causes are but things like
homelessness, housing, the economy, drugs, gangs, mental health all of these
things tend to be the driving forces," Kubrin said.

Although homelessness has become more prevalent across Los Angeles County,
Sanchez said Pasadena's homeless population, which, according to a city survey,
decreased from 2015 to 2016, only accounts for a small fraction of violent
crimes.

He added that an increase in gang activity in the second half of 2016 has lead
to more incidents of violent crime, including a recent wave of shootings
resulting in multiple homicides.

It started with theDec. 22 shooting death of 25-year-old Brandon Douglas- only
the second homicide recorded in all of 2016, according to department statistics
- in the 1200 block of Fair Oaks Avenue. Twoother men, identified as Antoine
Dewayne Sutphen Jr. and Ormani Dajan Duncan, both 24, were fatally shot last
week at a vigil erected for Douglas.

Still, Sanchez said he believes Pasadena is a safe community.

"We have some of the best police officers who patrol the area proactively and
engage the community frequently," he said. "I believe that kind of community
policing philosophy and practical control population helps make us a safe
community."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              July 9, 2017 Sunday

Email sent to Islamic-American relations group: 'sewer rats'

BYLINE: Deepa Bharath; dbharath@scng.com @reporterdeepa on Twitter

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

On the day the Department of Justice released its latest hate crime numbers, the
Los Angeles chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), on
Friday, July 7, received a threatening, obscenity-laden email with the subject
line "Muslim sewer rats," executive director Hussam Ayloush said. Ayloush said
the email came into the Anaheim-based group's general inbox and that CAIR's
Minnesota...

FULL TEXT

On the day the Department of Justice released its latest hate crime numbers, the
Los Angeles chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, CAIR, received
a threatening, obscenity-laden email with the subject line "Muslim sewer rats,"
Executive Director Hussam Ayloush said.

Ayloush said the email, which arrived Friday, came into the Anaheim-based
group's general inbox and that CAIR's Minnesota chapter received a similar
email.

The email reads: "Hey there Muslim PIG SWINE. We MILLIONS upon MILLIONS of
PATRIOTS, armed to the teeth with HUNDREDS of millions of weapons, with
literally over 50 BILLION rounds of horrific, violent camel jockey piercing
rounds of ammo. We have a LEADER in the White House, now standing for
JUDEO-Christian values ... You have mistaken European White Males patience for
weakness. Get ready to have a war ..."

CAIR has reported the email to the FBI, Ayloush said.

"While we've seen people in other states charged and sentenced for hate crimes
involving physical attacks, online or email threats are much harder to track,"
he said. "Unfortunately, we've become accustomed to receiving such ugly messages
through our email and our Facebook page as well," Ayloush said.

The amount of hate mail tripled between January and June of this year and has
"stabilized now" to around what it was last year, he said.

"We're still warning everyone at local mosques and Islamic centers to be
vigilant," he said. "In most cases, you hope these threats are made by someone
who is venting their hate, bigotry and ignorance. But you can never take a
chance because in some cases, these people are angry or unstable enough to take
action."

The Department of Justice's latest tally of hate crimes shows that about
one-third of the 11 percent increase in California's hate crimes from 2015 to
2016 came from Los Angeles.

According to the FBI, in 2015 there were 5,818 hate crimes in the U.S., up by
about 340 incidents from 2014.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            April 12, 2017 Wednesday

New top cop eyeing Valley rise in crime Deputy Chief Sherman declares his
priorities

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words

ABSTRACT

Meet the new chief of the Valley, Deputy Chief John A. Sherman.

FULL TEXT

PANORAMA CITY >> The Los Angeles Police Department's new chief in the San
Fernando Valley knows he's got his work cut out for him.

Deputy Chief John A. Sherman, commanding officer of LAPD's Operations-Valley
Bureau, took the helm last month after predecessor Robert Green was tapped to
lead the department's new Transit Services Bureau.

With rising crime in the city and the Valley, Sherman said he's determined to
use all available tools to get the community involved to fight crime while
deploying the Valley Bureau's 2,000 police officers most effectively.

"I'm an enthusiastic kind of

guy," said Sherman, who was raised in Reseda, from his office at the
Operations-Valley Bureau in Panorama City on Tuesday. "I hope to bring that
enthusiasm and energy to the Valley and help keep our officers going in the
right direction and mobilize our community even further."

The Valley saw some 39,000 crimes last year, up from about 32,000 crimes in 2014
following years of declines, according to police data.

Part of Sherman's challenge is getting the public to lock car doors, not leave
keys or other valuables inside their vehicles, and encouraging residents to talk
to their neighbors, he said.

"Our biggest numbers are property crimes," he explained. "Our Achilles heel is
when people break into cars, steal cars or break into homes."

Violent crime is down in the Valley about 8 percent so far this year, Sherman
said, but property crimes are up about 7 percent. Today, there are more ways for
the public to become involved to safeguard their neighborhoods, including
Facebook groups as well as social networks like Nextdoor where neighbors can
exchange information and tips, he said.

The seven Los Angeles police stations in the Valley also are using predictive
policing to help put officers in areas where there is a high probability that
property crimes will occur next, said Sherman, with his new assistant commanding
officer Jorge R. Rodriguez by his side.

Sherman joined the LAPD in 1985 as a patrol officer in the Rampart Area before
moving to the Devonshire and Hollywood areas. He worked his way up to captain,
serving as the commanding officer of the Devonshire Operations Support Division
and Devonshire Patrol Division, commanding officer of the West Valley Area and
commanding officer of the Topanga Area.

First Assistant Chief MichelMoore, director of LAPD's Office of Operations,
described Sherman as a "strong and compassionate leader" with extensive
experience across ranks. Sherman recently served as the assistant to the
director in his office and was closely involved in the department's strategic
action plan for the next five years.

"John is experienced as an executive but also as a tradesman and also
understanding strategies and tactics that can prove effective" in fighting
crime, Moore said.

For Sherman, who is married to wife Tracey and has three grown children and
three grandchildren, policing is a family affair. One of Sherman's daughters is
an officer assigned to LAPD's Training Division and helps train new recruits.
His father, Glen Sherman, retired from the LAPD as a lieutenant at the
Devonshire Division in 1980 before serving as a police chief in Colorado for 14
years.

Because police today work in a "very difficult environment," Sherman said he
aims to "encourage the heart" of his officers.

"We are thrown in the midst of all sorts of challenges, in the midst of a
national discussion about immigration, national discussions about force and
national policing," he said. "We're scrutinized like we've never been before."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            August 26, 2017 Saturday

Ex-sheriff's psychologist guilty in sex crimes

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words

ABSTRACT

A former Los Angeles County sheriff's Department psychologist from La Canada
Flintridge could face life in prison after a jury convicted him Friday of
sexually abusing two young relatives over more than two years, authorities said.


FULL TEXT

A former Los Angeles County sheriff's Department psychologist from La Cañada
Flintridge could face life in prison after a jury convicted him Friday of
sexually abusing two young relatives over more than two years, authorities said.

A Los Angeles County jury convicted Michael Dane Ward, 45, of four counts of
committing lewd acts on a child, two counts of forcible lewd acts on a child
under 14, three counts of oral copulation of a child under 10 and one count of
sodomy of a child under 10, Los Angeles County District Attorney's officials
announced in a written statement.

"Sentencing is set for Oct. 19, when Ward faces a possible maximum sentence of
life in prison," according to the statement. The jury deliberated for three days
before finding Ward guilty.

Should Ward ever be released from prison, he is expected to be required to
register as a sex offender, district attorney's office spokesman Greg Risling
said.

Ward's crimes took place between October of 2014 and March of 2016, prosecutors
said at the time. His victims were both family members: a then-9-year-old boy
and a then-10-year-old girl. Both testified against him at trial.

He was employed by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department as a psychologist
at the time of his arrest. His specific duties within the department were not
available, but sheriff's officials said he was not a sworn deputy.

In a statement issued in the days following Ward's arrest, the sheriff's
department described the allegations as "deeply troubling."

"These allegations were not as a result of contacts he made within the scope of
his work with the Sheriff's Department," according to the statement.

Ward was relieved of duty the same day he was arrested, May 5, 2016, sheriff's
officials added.

Ward posted $2 million bail 12 days after his arrest and had remained free
pending the trial process, Los Angeles County booking records show.

Following the jury's verdict on Friday, he was immediately remanded into custody
without bail, pending his sentencing in October in the Los Angeles branch of Los
Angeles County Superior Court.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 10, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Trust but verify LAPD stats

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Editorial Desk; Part A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 299 words


It may well be that LAPD Capt. Lillian Carranza's claims that the department
intentionally underreports violent crime are nothing but "damn lies," as Chief
Charlie Beck said earlier this week. Los Angeles is nationally recognized for
the integrity of its gathering and reporting of crime numbers. It has a data
integrity unit that scours the reports to ensure that the books are not cooked.
And Carranza has a personal ax to grind -- her allegations come as part of a
claim in which she says she was denied a promotion.

Still, it would be easier to dismiss her assertions out of hand were it not for
the fact that a 2014 Times investigation found widespread misclassification of
violent crimes as minor offenses, and if the LAPD's inspector general had not
made similar findings the following year. The department was indeed
underreporting violent crime in L.A.

Those errors apparently were unintentional, the inspector general reported. But
the LAPD now has a record of releasing bad numbers, so it's hard to have
unqualified confidence in the face of new allegations.

It goes without saying that accurate crime numbers are essential not just for
effective and efficient policing but to properly inform the public about their
risks and their safety, and to ensure sensible criminal justice laws and
policies.

If the inspector general and the civilian Police Commission must triple-check
the integrity of the crime numbers, over and over, so be it. Beck's strong
denial is welcome, but let's not wait until Carranza's claims are tested in
court. The commission ought to do what it must to reassure itself, and the
public, that the LAPD's crime numbers are accurate. And, if they are not,
whether the fudging is intentional. The attitude toward the department and its
data must be to trust -- but verify.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            October 22, 2017 Sunday

Garcetti is mayor, not the president

BYLINE: Tom Manzo

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 665 words

ABSTRACT

LDN Sunday (1022) page 3

FULL TEXT

It has a nice ring to it - at least, it does for Eric Garcetti. Los Angeles'
mayor appears to split his time these days between celebrating the city's
hosting of the 2028 Olympics, and entertaining conversations about a 2020
presidential run. The mayor showed up recently to stump for another mayor - this
one in Manchester, New Hampshire.

Before voters decide to elevate Garcetti from the "City of Angels" to the
"Capital City," a closer look at his record is in order.

Garcetti portrays himself as a popular mayor, but indifference might be better
word. True, he was re-elected last year with 80 percent of the vote - but just
one in five Angelenos turned out for that election. One reason for the lack of
enthusiasm: The city's rising crime rate. Data from the city's police department
show that violent crime increased 10 percent over 2015, and an astonishing 38
percent over 2014.

This year, the city's Homeless Services Authority reported the homelessness had
increased 20 percent over the previous year. The mayor's response at a press
conference was oddly passive: "I was particularly disappointed to see veteran
numbers go up," he said. The mayor said the city's homelessness crisis has been
around "through administrations, through recessions ... ." So much for the buck
stopping at City Hall.

The problems extend beyond the rule of law. If you wanted to buy a starter home
in Los Angeles, you better be prepared to spend north of a half-million dollars.
The Los Angeles Times reported this spring that median home prices in the city
were up six percent over the previous year, to a staggering $550,000.

These residents are paying more than their fair-share for services; a recent
settlement against the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power requires the
agency to pay back $52 million to compensate for an "illegal tax" on ratepayers.

The city's flagging quality of life has been exacerbated in recent years by its
flagging business environment. For some industries, the Garcetti years have been
golden; if you're a flashy technology company that hires highly-skilled,
highly-paid employees, the mayor will roll out the red carpet. Other industries
haven't been so lucky. For instance, Los Angeles was once a national and
international hub of apparel manufacturing; today, experts warn that "the exodus
has begun" - thanks in part to a dramatic minimum wage hike that our mayor
championed.

I'm not a disinterested observer. I'm president of Timely Industries, a
medium-sized manufacturing company based in the city's San Fernando Valley.
While the mayor was busy hobnobbing with global elites in pursuit of the
Olympics, my company was facing an existential crisis: A frivolous complaint
from a disgruntled ex-employee, filed under the state's Private Attorneys
General Act. Timely is hardly the only Los Angeles organization to be hit with
such a complaint; I'm personally aware of over 100 such businesses. More than
6,000 complaints are filed each year.

What we all have in common is that the mayor's office has provided little to no
help to manufacturers being crushed by the hostile regulatory and legal
environment in the city of Los Angeles - not to mention the state of California.

Rather than focus on 2020 or 2028, I'd encourage Mayor Garcetti to focus on the
here and now. I'd be happy to describe a handful of pressing problems faced by
businesses in the city, and concrete steps that he can take to help solve them.
I founded a trade association earlier this year, the California Business and
Industrial Alliance, to do just that. And I'm sure residents of the city's
neighborhood associations can give the mayor an earful on the improvements that
they need.

If the mayor can help improve his current home rather than measuring the drapes
for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, he'll be better off for it in his future endeavors
- and he'll leave this city we call home better off, too.

Tom Manzo is president of Timely Industries in Pacoima.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday

Former coach at L.A. schools gets 105 years for lewd acts with 7 young girls

BYLINE: Daily News

LENGTH: 154 words



HIGHLIGHT: A former coach convicted of lewd acts with seven girls while he
worked at after-school programs at elementary schools in Los Angeles and
Hollywood was sentenced Tuesday to 105 years to life in state prison.


LOS ANGELES  A former coach convicted of lewd acts with seven girls while he
worked at after-school programs at elementary schools in Los Angeles and
Hollywood was sentenced Tuesday to 105 years to life in state prison.

Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Ronald S. Coen imposed the term on Ronnie Lee
Roman, 44, of San Fernando, who was found guilty June 7 of seven counts of lewd
acts with a child.

Six of the crimes, which dated back to 2002, occurred on school grounds, while
one happened at a girls home, according to the District Attorneys Office. The
victims ranged in age from 8 to 11.

The jury was the second to hear the case against Roman, who worked as a coach
for after-school programs at Cahuenga Elementary School in Los Angeles and Vine
Elementary School in Hollywood.

In February, the first jury acquitted him of three counts of lewd act on a child
involving three other girls, but deadlocked on the remaining counts.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            October 22, 2017 Sunday

Garcetti is mayor, not the president

BYLINE: Tom Manzo

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 665 words

ABSTRACT

LDN Sunday (1022) page 3

FULL TEXT

It has a nice ring to it - at least, it does for Eric Garcetti. Los Angeles'
mayor appears to split his time these days between celebrating the city's
hosting of the 2028 Olympics, and entertaining conversations about a 2020
presidential run. The mayor showed up recently to stump for another mayor - this
one in Manchester, New Hampshire.

Before voters decide to elevate Garcetti from the "City of Angels" to the
"Capital City," a closer look at his record is in order.

Garcetti portrays himself as a popular mayor, but indifference might be better
word. True, he was re-elected last year with 80 percent of the vote - but just
one in five Angelenos turned out for that election. One reason for the lack of
enthusiasm: The city's rising crime rate. Data from the city's police department
show that violent crime increased 10 percent over 2015, and an astonishing 38
percent over 2014.

This year, the city's Homeless Services Authority reported the homelessness had
increased 20 percent over the previous year. The mayor's response at a press
conference was oddly passive: "I was particularly disappointed to see veteran
numbers go up," he said. The mayor said the city's homelessness crisis has been
around "through administrations, through recessions ... ." So much for the buck
stopping at City Hall.

The problems extend beyond the rule of law. If you wanted to buy a starter home
in Los Angeles, you better be prepared to spend north of a half-million dollars.
The Los Angeles Times reported this spring that median home prices in the city
were up six percent over the previous year, to a staggering $550,000.

These residents are paying more than their fair-share for services; a recent
settlement against the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power requires the
agency to pay back $52 million to compensate for an "illegal tax" on ratepayers.

The city's flagging quality of life has been exacerbated in recent years by its
flagging business environment. For some industries, the Garcetti years have been
golden; if you're a flashy technology company that hires highly-skilled,
highly-paid employees, the mayor will roll out the red carpet. Other industries
haven't been so lucky. For instance, Los Angeles was once a national and
international hub of apparel manufacturing; today, experts warn that "the exodus
has begun" - thanks in part to a dramatic minimum wage hike that our mayor
championed.

I'm not a disinterested observer. I'm president of Timely Industries, a
medium-sized manufacturing company based in the city's San Fernando Valley.
While the mayor was busy hobnobbing with global elites in pursuit of the
Olympics, my company was facing an existential crisis: A frivolous complaint
from a disgruntled ex-employee, filed under the state's Private Attorneys
General Act. Timely is hardly the only Los Angeles organization to be hit with
such a complaint; I'm personally aware of over 100 such businesses. More than
6,000 complaints are filed each year.

What we all have in common is that the mayor's office has provided little to no
help to manufacturers being crushed by the hostile regulatory and legal
environment in the city of Los Angeles - not to mention the state of California.

Rather than focus on 2020 or 2028, I'd encourage Mayor Garcetti to focus on the
here and now. I'd be happy to describe a handful of pressing problems faced by
businesses in the city, and concrete steps that he can take to help solve them.
I founded a trade association earlier this year, the California Business and
Industrial Alliance, to do just that. And I'm sure residents of the city's
neighborhood associations can give the mayor an earful on the improvements that
they need.

If the mayor can help improve his current home rather than measuring the drapes
for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, he'll be better off for it in his future endeavors
- and he'll leave this city we call home better off, too.

Tom Manzo is president of Timely Industries in Pacoima.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            October 22, 2017 Sunday

Garcetti is mayor, not the president

BYLINE: Tom Manzo

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 665 words

ABSTRACT

LDN Sunday (1022) page 3

FULL TEXT

It has a nice ring to it - at least, it does for Eric Garcetti. Los Angeles'
mayor appears to split his time these days between celebrating the city's
hosting of the 2028 Olympics, and entertaining conversations about a 2020
presidential run. The mayor showed up recently to stump for another mayor - this
one in Manchester, New Hampshire.

Before voters decide to elevate Garcetti from the "City of Angels" to the
"Capital City," a closer look at his record is in order.

Garcetti portrays himself as a popular mayor, but indifference might be better
word. True, he was re-elected last year with 80 percent of the vote - but just
one in five Angelenos turned out for that election. One reason for the lack of
enthusiasm: The city's rising crime rate. Data from the city's police department
show that violent crime increased 10 percent over 2015, and an astonishing 38
percent over 2014.

This year, the city's Homeless Services Authority reported the homelessness had
increased 20 percent over the previous year. The mayor's response at a press
conference was oddly passive: "I was particularly disappointed to see veteran
numbers go up," he said. The mayor said the city's homelessness crisis has been
around "through administrations, through recessions ... ." So much for the buck
stopping at City Hall.

The problems extend beyond the rule of law. If you wanted to buy a starter home
in Los Angeles, you better be prepared to spend north of a half-million dollars.
The Los Angeles Times reported this spring that median home prices in the city
were up six percent over the previous year, to a staggering $550,000.

These residents are paying more than their fair-share for services; a recent
settlement against the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power requires the
agency to pay back $52 million to compensate for an "illegal tax" on ratepayers.

The city's flagging quality of life has been exacerbated in recent years by its
flagging business environment. For some industries, the Garcetti years have been
golden; if you're a flashy technology company that hires highly-skilled,
highly-paid employees, the mayor will roll out the red carpet. Other industries
haven't been so lucky. For instance, Los Angeles was once a national and
international hub of apparel manufacturing; today, experts warn that "the exodus
has begun" - thanks in part to a dramatic minimum wage hike that our mayor
championed.

I'm not a disinterested observer. I'm president of Timely Industries, a
medium-sized manufacturing company based in the city's San Fernando Valley.
While the mayor was busy hobnobbing with global elites in pursuit of the
Olympics, my company was facing an existential crisis: A frivolous complaint
from a disgruntled ex-employee, filed under the state's Private Attorneys
General Act. Timely is hardly the only Los Angeles organization to be hit with
such a complaint; I'm personally aware of over 100 such businesses. More than
6,000 complaints are filed each year.

What we all have in common is that the mayor's office has provided little to no
help to manufacturers being crushed by the hostile regulatory and legal
environment in the city of Los Angeles - not to mention the state of California.

Rather than focus on 2020 or 2028, I'd encourage Mayor Garcetti to focus on the
here and now. I'd be happy to describe a handful of pressing problems faced by
businesses in the city, and concrete steps that he can take to help solve them.
I founded a trade association earlier this year, the California Business and
Industrial Alliance, to do just that. And I'm sure residents of the city's
neighborhood associations can give the mayor an earful on the improvements that
they need.

If the mayor can help improve his current home rather than measuring the drapes
for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, he'll be better off for it in his future endeavors
- and he'll leave this city we call home better off, too.

Tom Manzo is president of Timely Industries in Pacoima.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Fuel thefts making criminals millions;
Gangs use stolen credit cards to sell black-market gas.;
CRIME

BYLINE: By Brendan Farrington

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 737 words


This pickup is fitted with a large tank that was used to siphon gas from fueling
stations using stolen credit cards. California, Florida and Texas are the three
states with the highest number of fuel-theft crimes.

TALLAHASSEE, FLA. - A black market for diesel fuel and gasoline has rapidly
spread around the nation, with organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit
cards to siphon millions of dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks
hidden inside pickup trucks and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavors,
and criminals can make $1,000 or more a day reselling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area.

"California and Florida are the two worst," he said. "Texas is No. 3."

Black-marketdieselstarted becoming a big business whencreditcard"skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install the devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up.

The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a counterfeit card,
which can then be used to steal fuel.

The black market has grown quickly in part because the thefts total a few
hundred dollars at a time, and prosecutors have been slow to prioritize them.
But as fuel thefts become more organized, they have caught the attention of
state and federal authorities around the country.

State Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Adam Putnam's department
takes the lead on prosecuting these crimes in Florida. He said they used to be
considered a "victimless" or "slap-on-the-wrist-type crime, and yet they were
making more money doing this than a lot of other criminal activities that had a
lot higher sentences."

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because of the use of credit card skimmers.

Agent Steve Scarince said Miami, Los Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots,
together accounting for about 20 million gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gang-bangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated the group stole close to $16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal $7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation for
about five years before agents shut it down.

"Theft has been involved with fuel for as long as retailers have been selling
fuel," said Jeff Lenard, a vice president of the National Association of
Convenience Stores in Alexandria, Va.

But he said today's criminals are "trying to steal hundreds, if not thousands,
of gallons."

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal $100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida.

In other cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another
pumps diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

Texas Comptroller Glenn Hegar has pursued sellers of black market fuel for
breaking state motor fuel tax evasion laws, securing some stiff sentences: In
2015 alone, his office worked to indict more than 100 suspected motor fuel
thieves. A Gorman, Texas, man got 40 years in 2015, and a Haskell, Texas, man
was sentenced to 10 years last August.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              110 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 10, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

D.A. forms task force;
Jackie Lacey assigns sex crimes prosecutors to allegations against Hollywood
figures.

BYLINE: Richard Winton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words


Los Angeles County Dist. Atty. Jackie Lacey announced Thursday the creation of a
special task force to examine allegations of sexual assault roiling Hollywood as
the number of accusations reported to police this week climbed.

Lacey made the announcement Thursday as local law enforcement agencies
investigate allegations against such Hollywood heavyweights as producer Harvey
Weinstein, director James Toback and actor Ed Westwick, among others.

The district attorney said she has assigned a group of veteran sex crimes
prosecutors to work together to examine the cases and "ensure a uniformed
approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any case that meets
both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."

Legal experts said the task force makes sense but continued to caution that such
cases can be difficult to prove. Many of the alleged incidents occurred years
ago, and detectives need to determine whether physical evidence or witness
statements exist that can help build cases.

"It does speak to the culture of the city that this is a major criminal justice
issue worthy of a task force," said Laurie Levenson, a former prosecutor and
Loyola law professor. "It is a good idea to have veteran, experienced
prosecutors on these cases. But people shouldn't get their expectations up."

In the month since allegations of sexual misconduct by Weinstein first surfaced,
the number of sexual assault or lewd conduct reports against Hollywood figures
has steadily escalated.

Los Angeles police are investigating allegations of rape and forced oral
copulation in 2013 against Weinstein by an Italian model-actress as well as a
lewd act in 2015. Detectives are probing allegations of sexual assault against
Toback, whom more than 200 women have accused of sexual misconduct. "Gossip
Girl" actor Westwick is the subject of two women's allegations he raped them in
2014.

The Beverly Hills Police Department also has open investigations involving
Weinstein and Toback.

All three have publicly denied any wrongdoing.

Some Hollywood stars have also turned to the LAPD to investigate their claims of
abuse. Actor Terry Crews this week reported he was sexually assaulted by a
prominent Hollywood talent agent. The star of TV's "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" and
former NFL football player claimed he was groped in 2016 at a party by an agent
whose clients include numerous A-list actors.

Lacey said police have yet to forward any cases to prosecutors for review.

"We are in communications with the Los Angeles and Beverly Hills police
departments," she said in a statement.

LAPD's sex crimes detectives in its Robbery-Homicide Division have been vetting
the cases and working closely with prosecutors. The department is acting as a
clearinghouse for agencies in Southern California as some reports are coming
from other police overseas.

Los Angeles police officials Thursday said some of the allegations are too old
to pursue because of the statute of limitations for various sex crimes. This
week, actor Corey Feldman reported to the LAPD that he was sexually abused by
two adults as a child in the industry.

"Unfortunately according to California law the alleged occurrence is out of
statute, and Robbery-Homicide detectives have no other avenues to pursue this
case," said LAPD spokesman Officer Sal Ramirez. "However, the LAPD applauds Mr.
Feldman for coming forward, as an out-of-statute assault report could
potentially bolster any current and forthcoming case as it creates a pattern of
behavior."

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE LAPD is looking into at least two allegations of sex crimes
against producer Harvey Weinstein, above. Beverly Hills police also have an open
investigation.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Chris Pizzello Invision/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           August 23, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

L.A. sues over threats to withhold funds

BYLINE: Joel Rubin Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 305 words


LOS ANGELES - The city of Los Angeles announced Tuesday that it is suing
President Donald Trump's Department of Justice, claiming that new conditions
requiring police to cooperate with immigration enforcement officials to qualify
for anti-crime funding are unconstitutional and should be blocked.

City Attorney Mike Feuer said he is asking a federal judge to strike down rules
U.S. Attorney Gen. Jeff Sessions announced last month for Justice Department
funds that have long been dispersed to local law enforcement agencies to bolster
efforts to fight violent and gang crime. Going forward, Sessions said, police
agencies that want a piece of the funding would have to first demonstrate that
they are willing to help immigration officials identify and detain people in
local jails who are suspected of being in the country illegally.

"We're suing to block the Trump administration from unconstitutionally imposing
its will on our city. The administration would put L.A. to the untenable choice
of risking a key public safety grant or making LAPD an arm of federal civil
immigration policy," Feuer said in a statement.

The Justice Department awards the grant money to states and cities annually. In
the past, the amount cities receive has been calculated based on population and
crime statistics. In each of the last 20 years, Los Angeles has received over $1
million, including $1.8 million for the 2016 fiscal year. This year, L.A. would
be eligible to receive $1.9 million, to be shared between the city and the
county.

The legal challenge is the latest response to threats by the Trump
administration to cut funds to so-called sanctuary cities. Last week, California
and San Francisco officials said they also were suing the Trump administration.

The following fields overflowed: KEYWORD = LOSANGELES:LA - national (300 words)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              112 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Police assist in take-down of L.A.-based MS-13 gang

BYLINE: Doug Saunders; dsaunders@scng.com @crimeshutterbug on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 470 words

ABSTRACT

PPD ASSISTED IN THE FBI'S MS13 BUST

FULL TEXT

POMONA >> Local police assisted their federal counterparts inan early morning
operationthat sent high-ranking members of the Los Angeles based gang MS-13 to
jail.

"Early this morning, the joint Pomona Police Department FBI Safe Streets Task
Force participated in a 50-location, countywide take-down and arrest of MS-13
and Mexican Mafia Gang members," a news release states. "The suspects face a
wide range of charges including federal racketeering, narcotics conspiracy and
homicide."

Authorities arrested 44 members of the transnational gang, including the former
head of the gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior leaders, according to a U.S.
Attorney's office news release.

"This operation is a powerful example of the significant impact partnerships
play in law enforcement," Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck said in a
statement. "The successful arrest of these individuals was only possible be

cause a wide range of agencies collaborated with each other, based on
information gleaned from countless investigation hours and tips provided by
people who could trust our police officers, regardless of their immigration
status."

Three members of the gang, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, also known as "Little
Boy," 23, Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, also known as "Blacky," 39, and Joffri
Molina, also known as "Espia," 24, are facing a violent crime in aid of
racketeering - or VICAR - for their alleged roles in three separate murders.

Lopez is accused of fatally shooting an innocent bystander who was confronted on
Aug. 15, 2015, inside the gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and
Restaurant on North Western Avenue in Los Angeles. A friend of the murder victim
was also stabbed during the attack.

Rivas is accused of murdering a man Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip mall in Pacoima,
and Molina is accused of murdering a man Sept. 27, 2015, on a street in North
Hollywood.

Lopez, Rivas and Molina are all eligible for the death penalty if found guilty
of the murders, according to prosecutors.

In the early Wednesday morning operation, authorities arrested 44 gang members
who will face federal charges, officials said.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Acting U.S. Attorney Sandra R. Brown said in a statement.
"With thousands of members here in the Southland, the gang's power is widespread
- power which it maintains with severe acts of violence. Today's charges and
arrests, however, will deal a critical blow to the top leadership of this
criminal organization and will significantly improve safety in neighborhoods
across this region."

None of the MS-13 gang members sought in this operation was identified as living
in Pomona.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday

Beware at the pump: Black market fuel is making millions;
California and Florida are the two worst for this crime.;
ORGANIZED CRIME

BYLINE: By Brendan Farrington

SECTION: ; Pg. E2

LENGTH: 856 words


There are ways of foiling fuel thieves, including security devices that can shut
down a pump if someone tampers with it. Here is a credit card skimmer found at a
BP station on Sept. 5.

TALLAHASSEE, FLA. (AP) - A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly
spread around the nation, with organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit
cards to siphon millions of dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks
hidden inside pickup trucks and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavors,
and criminals can make $1,000 or more a day re-selling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said.

Thieves install these devices at gas station pumps, where they record card
information as unsuspecting customers fuel up. The information is later
transferred to a magnetic strip on a counterfeit card. The problem has only
grown as the devices become more sophisticated.

The black market has grown quickly in part because the thefts total a few
hundred dollars at a time, and prosecutors were slow to prioritize them. But as
fuel thefts become more organized, they have caught the attention of state and
federal authorities around the country.

Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Adam Putnam's department takes
the lead on prosecuting these crimes in Florida. He said they used to be
considered a "victimless" or "slap-on-the-wrist-type crime, and yet they were
making more money doing this than a lot of other criminal activities that had a
lot higher sentences."

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years - the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million plus," Scarince said. "The gang-bangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from asingle Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate how
much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickup trucks and
SUVs with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to $16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal $7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation for
about five years before agents shut it down.

"Theft has been involved with fuel for as long as retailers have been selling
fuel," said Jeff Lenard, a vice president of the National Association of
Convenience Stores in Alexandria, Virginia, but today's criminals are "trying to
steal hundreds, if not thousands, of gallons."

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal $100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida.

In other cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another
pumps diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

Texas Comptroller Glenn Hegar has pursued sellers of black market fuel for
breaking state motor fuel tax evasion laws, securing some stiff sentences: In
2015 alone, his office worked to indict more than 100 suspected motor fuel
thieves. A Gorman, Texas, man got 40 years in 2015, and a Haskell, Texas, man
was sentenced to 10 years last August.

There are ways of foiling these thieves, including security devices that can
shut down a pump if someone tampers with it. It's an expensive arms race, but in
addition to the economic impact, there are safety concerns.

In 2014, a convicted fuel thief's van exploded as he filled a secret tank in
Miami-Dade County. In 2015, a man driving a truck carrying 1,650 gallons of
stolen diesel led police on a high-speed chase, weaving in and out of traffic on
Interstate 5 before crashing into a highway barrier.

"God forbid that hits a school bus with a bunch of kids on it," said Ned Bowman,
executive director of the Florida Petroleum and Convenience Store Association.
"A car full of that much fuel is like a bomb going down the street."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              114 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

California has fewer arrests

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 441 words

ABSTRACT

The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in recent years, but
it's not necessarily good news on crime

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> The number of arrests by police in California has plunged in
recent years, but that doesn't necessarily represent good news on crime,
according to an analysis published Saturday.

The state saw 1.5 million arrests for misdemeanors and felonies in 2015, the
most recent year with figures available, according to the Los Angeles Times.

In Los Angeles, arrests dropped by 25 percent from 2013 to 2015, even as the
city saw a spike in crime.

There's no clear reason behind the decline.

Law enforcement officials said fewer officers and changes in strategy could be
behind some of it.

Others said increased scrutiny of officers after a series of high-profile
shootings and beatings, most involving black suspects, have led to less
motivation.

In a national survey of law enforcement officers in 2016, 72 percent said they
and their fellow officers were less likely to stop and question people because
of such incidents.

"Not to make fun of it, but a lot of guys are like, 'Look, I'm just going to act
like a fireman.' I'm going to handle my calls for service and the things that I
have to do," George Hofstetter, a motorcycle deputy for the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department and a former union leader for deputies, told the Times.
"But going out there and making traffic stops and contacting persons who may

be up to something nefarious? 'I'm not going to do that anymore.' "

Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck did not agree, saying he hasn't seen
significant hesitance.

"I'd be denying human nature if I didn't say police are very cautious about what
they do now because of the scrutiny," Beck said. "But do I see it? I don't
really see things that make me think that the workforce as a body is retreating.
I don't see that at all."

Proposition 47, a ballot measure passed by state voters in November 2014,
downgraded some felonies to misdemeanors, and many police officers told the
Times that means those arrests are often not worth the time and effort they
take.

Beck said in his city the increase has come in the most serious crimes, while
the decrease has come from drug arrests.

But he said a positive change in policing is partly behind the drop in arrests,
with less emphasis in his department on just making countless busts as was the
case decades ago.

"The only thing we cared about was how many arrests we made," Beck said. "I
don't want them to care about that. I want them to care about how safe their
community is and how healthy it is."

Information from: Los Angeles Times, http://www.latimes.com/

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                          September 20, 2017 Wednesday

Police identifies suspect in Gurdwara vandalism case in US

LENGTH: 461  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Sept. 20 -- The police have identified a suspect who had vandalised
a Gurdwara with hate messages and threatened to slit the throat of a witness who
caught the incident on video in the US state of California.


 Artyom Manukyan, 27, is accused of using a black marker to write hate messages
on the walls of the Vermont Gurdwara, also known as the Hollywood Sikh Temple,
on August 31, Capt. Robert Long of the Los Angeles Police Department's Major
Crimes Division was quoted as saying by the Los Angeles Times.
 Long said the suspect was confronted by several people, including a man who
filmed the incident and posted it on Facebook. The man followed Manukyan for
several blocks before the suspect threatened him with a straight razor, police
said.
 In the video, a man police identified as Manukyan can be seen calmly walking
away from the wall and ignoring someone who repeatedly shouts, "Why did you
write on it?"
 Manukyan, who lives in the Glendale or Los Angeles area, has been arrested on
suspicion of burglary, grand theft auto and making criminal threats in the past,
Long said.
 At a news conference yesterday, police asked for the public help in locating
Manukyan after a weeks-long search failed to result in an arrest.
 The messages are still visible on the Vermont Avenue side of the Gurdwara. One
reads, "Nuke death...Sikhs," with a profanity in between, while the other refers
to a group of Sikhs stabbing the author when he was a child.
 Long said Manukyan's family has been cooperative, but the suspect's motives
remain unclear. Manukyan was not known to the Gurdwara's community, said
Nirinjan Singh Khalsa, executive director of the California Sikh Council.
 "I am fully confident he designed this as a threat to the Sikh community and we
need to take him into custody to make sure that the community, not just the Sikh
community, but the community as a whole, is safer," Long said.
 If arrested, Manukyan could face vandalism charges with a hate crime
enhancement, Long said.
 He would also face criminal threats charges for brandishing a blade at the man
who filmed him, according to Long, who said the case has been presented to the
Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office.
 Long said the suspect may be mentally ill, but it is not clear if he has been
formally diagnosed, the paper reported.
 Khalsa said he believes that attacks on the Sikh community have increased
recently as well.
 "I can tell you on behalf of the Sikh community that these incidents are up,
especially in the political climate we're in now. In the past hate crimes
against Sikhs were mistaken identity hate crimes," he said.
 "Unfortunately, now what we're seeing is Sikhs are part of the other group in
the mind of some people that think hatred is patriotic," he added.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             October 9, 2017 Monday
                                  Home Edition

Abuse victims stay silent over fears of deportation;
Reports of domestic violence have fallen among Latino residents in some of
California's largest cities, experts say

BYLINE: James Queally

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Metro Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words


The woman on the other end of the line said her husband had been beating her for
years, even while she was pregnant.

She was in danger and wanted help, but was in the country illegally -- and was
convinced she would be deported if she called authorities. Fearful her husband
would gain custody of her children, she wanted nothing to do with the legal
system.

It is a story that Jocelyn Maya, program supervisor at the domestic violence
shelter Su Casa in Long Beach, has heard often this year.

In the first six months of 2017, reports of domestic violence declined among
Latino residents in some of California's largest cities, a retreat that crisis
professionals say is driven by a fear that interacting with police or entering a
courthouse could make immigrants easy targets for deportation.

President Trump's aggressive stance on illegal immigration, executive orders
greatly expanding the number of people who can be targeted for deportation and
news reports of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents making arrests
at courthouses have contributed to the downturn, according to civil liberties
and immigrant rights advocates.

In Los Angeles, Latinos reported 3.5% fewer instances of spousal abuse in the
first six months of the year compared with 2016, while reporting among
non-Latino victims was virtually unchanged, records show. That pattern extends
beyond Los Angeles to cities such as San Francisco and San Diego, which recorded
even steeper declines of 18% and 13%, respectively.

Domestic violence is traditionally an underreported crime. Some police officials
and advocates now say immigrants without legal status also may become targets
for other crimes because of their reluctance to contact law enforcement.

The Long Beach abuse victim, fearing she had no other recourse, sent her oldest
children back to Mexico to live with relatives.

"We're supposed to be that assurance that they don't have. That safety net,"
Maya said. "But it's getting harder for us to have a positive word for them and
say: 'It's going to be OK. You can go into a courtroom. You can call the
police.' "

L.A. County Sheriff's Deputy Marino Gonzalez said he addresses such apprehension
frequently in East L.A. -- even though his department doesn't question people
about their immigration status.

"They're afraid of us. And the reason they're afraid of us is because they think
we're going to deport them. They don't know that we don't deport them; we don't
ask for their immigration status," he said. "They just gotta go based on what
they see on social media and what they hear from other people."

On a warm afternoon, Gonzalez pulled his cruiser to a stop near a row of
apartments in Cudahy, ahead of a community meeting in a predominantly
Spanish-speaking neighborhood.

The mood in the city was tense. The night before, a pro-Trump demonstrator
protesting the city's "sanctuary" status had been arrested on suspicion of
brandishing a gun. Gonzalez and city officials went door-to-door, flashing
smiles and speaking Spanish to residents, urging them to attend the meeting.

Gonzalez spoke calmly to the assembly of several dozen people sipping from
Styrofoam cups.

"We're not here to ask you where you're from," he said in Spanish, drawing
thankful nods.

Gonzalez, who came to the U.S. from Mexico as a child, said he knows why people
are scared, but hopes face-to-face conversations will persuade more victims to
come forward.

"The community here, they don't know, and they won't know, unless we reach out,"
he said.

ICE officials also said they do not target crime victims for deportation and, in
fact, often extend visas to those who report violent crime and sexual abuse.

Officials in the agency's Los Angeles office declined to be interviewed. ICE
issued a statement dismissing links between immigration enforcement and a
decline in crime reporting among immigrants as "speculative and irresponsible."

The drop in reporting could result from an overall decrease in domestic violence
crimes, the agency said. But police statistics reviewed by The Times suggest
that statement is inaccurate. The decline in domestic violence reports among
Latinos in several cities is far steeper than overall declines in reporting of
those crimes.

In Los Angeles and San Diego, reporting of domestic violence crimes remained
unchanged among non-Latinos. The decline among Latinos in San Diego was more
than double the overall citywide decrease, records show. In San Francisco, the
reporting decline among Latinos was nearly triple the citywide decrease.

The pattern extends outside California.

In April, Houston police Chief Art Acevedo said the number of Latino victims
reporting sexual assault had dropped 42% in his city. In Denver, at least nine
women abandoned pursuit of restraining orders against their abusers after
immigration enforcement agents were filmed making an arrest in a city courthouse
this year, City Atty. Kristi Bronson said.

Claude Arnold, who oversaw ICE operations in Southern California from 2010 to
2015, said misconceptions about the agency may be driving the downswing. Crime
victims are far more likely to receive a visa application than a removal order
by reporting an attack, he said.

"ICE still has a policy that we don't pursue removal proceedings against victims
or witnesses of crime, and I haven't seen any documented instances where that
actually happened," he said. "To a great degree, we facilitate those people
having legal status in the U.S."

Nationwide, the number of arrests made by ICE agents for violations of
immigration law surged by 37% in the first half of 2017. In Southern California,
those arrests increased by 4.5%.

Arnold said some immigrants' rights activists have helped facilitate a climate
of fear by spreading inaccurate information about ICE sweeps that either didn't
happen, or were in line with the Obama administration's policies.

But professionals who deal with domestic violence victims say the perception of
hardcore enforcement tactics under Trump has led to widespread panic.

Adam Dodge, legal director at the Orange County domestic violence shelter
Laura's House, said that before February, nearly half the center's client base
were immigrants in the country illegally. That month, ICE agents in Texas
entered a courthouse to arrest a woman without legal status who was seeking a
restraining order against an abuser.

"We went from half our clients being undocumented, to zero undocumented
clients," he said.

A video recording this year of a father being arrested by ICE agents after
dropping his daughter off at a Lincoln Heights school had a similar effect on
abuse victims in neighboring Boyle Heights, said Rebeca Melendez, director of
wellness programs for the East L.A. Women's Center.

"They instilled the ultimate fear into our community," she said. "They know they
can trust us, but they are not trusting very many people past us."

Even when victims come forward, defense attorneys sometimes use the specter of
ICE as a weapon against them, to the frustration of prosecutors.

In the Bay Area, a Daly City man was facing battery charges this year after
flashing a knife and striking the mother of his girlfriend, according to court
records. The man's defense attorney raised the fact that the victim was in the
country illegally during pretrial hearings, although a judge eventually ruled
that evidence was irrelevant and inadmissible at trial, records show.

The case ended in a hung jury. When prosecutors sought a retrial, the victim
said she would not cooperate, in part, because her immigration status was raised
during the trial, said Max Szabo, a spokesman for the San Francisco district
attorney's office.

San Francisco Dist. Atty. George Gascon said the case was one of several where
his prosecutors felt defense attorneys sought to leverage heightened fears of
deportation against victims. He believes that tactic, combined with ICE's
expanded priorities and presence in courthouses, is driving down domestic
violence reporting among immigrants in the city's sprawling Latino and Asian
communities.

Gascon described the situation as a "replay" of the fear he saw in the immigrant
community while he was the police chief in Mesa, Ariz., during Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio's crusade against people without legal status, which led to
accusations of racial profiling.

Stephanie Penrod, managing attorney for the Family Violence Law Center in
Oakland, also said the number of immigrants without legal status willing to seek
aid from law enforcement has dwindled.

Abusers frequently will threaten to call immigration enforcement agents on their
victims, a threat Penrod believes has more teeth now given ICE's increased
presence in courthouses.

"The biggest difference for us now is those threats are legitimate," she said.
"Previously we used to advise them we couldn't prevent an abuser from calling
ICE, but that it was unlikely ICE would do anything."

If the problem persists, Gascon fears the consequences could be deadly.

"The level of violence increases," he said. "It could, in some cases, lead to
severe injury or homicide."

--

james.queally@latimes.com

Times staff writer Kate Mather contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHERIFF'S Deputy Marino Gonzalez talks with Cudahy residents in
June. "They're afraid of us," he said of immigrants. "They don't know that we
don't deport them; we don't ask for their immigration status."  PHOTOGRAPHER:
Brian van der Brug Los Angeles Times PHOTO: GONZALEZ, who came from Mexico as a
child, said he understands why people are scared, but hopes face-to-face
conversations will persuade victims to speak up.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Brian van der
Brug Los Angeles Times PHOTO: DEPUTY Marino Gonzalez, center right, said
officials have reached out to Spanish-speaking communities.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Brian
van der Brug Los Angeles Times GRAPHIC: Domestic violence reports decrease among
Latinos  CREDIT: Los Angeles Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Infographic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           November 8, 2017 Wednesday

Los Angeles captain Says Police Undercount Violent Crime

LENGTH: 415  words


A San Fernando Valley Los Angeles police captain Monday publicly detailed what
she alleges is the departments systematic pattern of under-reporting certain
crime statistics.

Los Angeles Police Department Capt. Lillian Carranza, assigned to the Van Nuys
Station, said she discovered errors in categorizing violent crimes that were
never fixed.

Ignoring the errors resulted in serious incidents being under-reported, which
can have a significant effect on how police plan and pay for their strategies to
fight crime in L.A.

As a citizen, it gives you a false sense of security that you are safe when in
fact that might not be the case, Carranza, a 28-year LAPD veteran, said at an
afternoon news conference Monday at her attorneys office in Beverly Hills. It
also affects the way we deploy resources, the support we get from federal
grants, and in my case and in my officers case, who gets the support of
discretionary resources and who doesnt.

In her government claim against the city, a precursor to a lawsuit, Carranza
said she found under-reporting in a number of stations she audited, ranging from
the LAPDs Foothill and Mission divisions to its Central and Pacific divisions.

For the divisions she audited, Carranza found that LAPD was under-reporting
violent crime for 2016 by about 10 percent, she said.

Carranza argued that certain staff members may have falsified information
engaging in cooking of the books  in order to get promotions, accolades and
increased responsibility. You make it look like youre doing a great job, and the
next thing you know, you are being promoted, said Carranza, who noted she has
been raising the issue with her superiors since 2014.

When officers make errors on crime reports, the mistakes are supposed to be
corrected once they reach a watch commander, a records clerk or a detective,
Carranza explained.

However, in some cases, such errors were not recognized or fixed, she said.
Someone, for example, could be attacked with a firearm and the incident would be
incorrectly coded as a simple assault, which would not get counted in the citys
serious violent crime statistics, rather than an aggravated assault.

She said after complaining of the errors to command staff, no action was taken.
In fact, she was ordered to stand down, according to the claim.

Carranza argued that she was retaliated against for bringing up the issue by not
being promoted to the rank of commander and by not receiving adequate resources
for her division. 2017 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2017 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday

Councilman wants to know who illegally painted curb red

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words

ABSTRACT

A curb was illegally painted red at Nordhoff Place and Oakdale this weekend in
Chatsworth and authorities are looking for the culprit. The paint will be
removed and councilman Mitchell Englander said he is looking for the public's
help to solve the crime committed on city property. Englander said he is asking
the Los Angeles Police Department to investigate and will also ask the city
attorney to file charges. In a Facebook message, Englander said "we all know" he
curb is not the issue but homelessness is and federal and state laws govern how
officials can proceed. "Individuals should be pro-active in reporting and
communicating their concerns with my office and proper authorities but should
not take it upon themselves to deface public property. That is a crime and will
be treated as such." Anyone who has more information is asked to contact Erich
King in Englander's office at 818-882-1212 during regular business hours.

FULL TEXT

A section of curb was illegally painted red at Nordhoff Place and Oakdale Avenue
sometime this weekend in Chatsworth, and Los Angeles Councilman Mitchell
Englanderis looking for the culprit.

"It's very serious because not only are you defacing public property but you're
altering a traffic control device," Englander said Tuesday, adding he learned of
the crime on Sunday from a social media post. "Red curbs are considered a
traffic control device, and it could be prosecuted as a felony."

The paint will eventually be removed, and Englander's office has asked for the
public's help to solve the crime committed on city property.

"We asked the police department to conduct an investigation and file charges as
appropriate," said Colin Sweeney, Englander's communications director.

Sweeney added the curb was painted red for two city blocks, or roughly a quarter
mile, which is unusual.

Previously, the area had no-parking signs posted for tree trimming and filming
and someone took advantage of it, Sweeney explained.

"They used the wrong

type of paint," he said. "We would need to remove it regardless because of the
liability. When it's wet outside, it's very slippery."

In response to Englander's initial Facebook post showing video of the red curb,
several commenters suggested whoever painted the curb did so to deter people
from parking their motor homes on the street - an issue city officialshave
recently addressedamid Los Angeles' surge in homelessness.

In afollow-up post on Facebook, Englander said "we all know" the curb is not the
issue.

"Homelessness is a serious matter for neighborhoods throughout Los Angeles with
many federal and state laws governing how we are allowed to proceed," he wrote.

On Tuesday, Englander said he is working "vigorously" everyday on the
homelessness issue which includes having a staff member for homelessness as well
as opening a shelter without taxpayer funds and a mobile shower.

Besides the possibility of being prosecuted as a felony, which would likely send
the culprit to jail longer than a year, there is also a cost to taxpayers,
Englander said.

"To repair this and restore it back to its original state it could be tens of
thousands of dollars," Englander concluded.

The initial timeline was to have the curb fixed by Friday but it will likely
take longer because of weather issues, Sweeney added.

Anyone who has more information is asked to contact Erich King in Englander's
office at 818-882-1212 during regular business hours.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            October 7, 2017 Saturday

Racist hate mail with swastika sent to L.A., NYC

BYLINE: Wes Woods; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 406 words

ABSTRACT

There have been reports of at least four letters with no return address sent to
businesses in LA, Brooklyn and Manhattan, the ADL said Wednesday

FULL TEXT

Mail inscribed with a large swastika and anti-Semitic, racist and homophobic
language was sent to a Jewish business in Los Angeles and others in New York
City, authorities said Thursday.

The Los Angeles Police Department's hate crime coordinator received information
about the letter Thursday and was working with the FBI and the New York Police
Department, said Detective Ross Nemeroff of the LAPD's media relations office.

Since Friday there have been reports of at least four letters with no return
address sent to businesses in L.A., Brooklyn and Manhattan, the Anti-Defamation
League reported Wednesday.

Each piece of mail, which the ADL called letters, had the same imagery of the
Nazi symbol with the racial and anti-gay slurs underneath. The letters also read
"Make America Great Again!!!," "Juden Raus," and "Christian Identity Is Back."

Juden Raus is translated as "Jews Out."

Nemeroff said the "hate incident" involved a jeweler at the 600 block of Hill
Street in Los Angeles, but Nemeroff declined to give information on which
specific business was targeted. The detective had no immediate information on
when the incident occurred.

The case is not considered a hate crime, because in California the action would
have to involve a criminal threat, Nemeroff said.

"It's still investigated thoroughly," the detective said.

A detective is following possible leads, Nemeroff added.

Christian Identity is known as an anti-Semitic and racist theology that rose to
a position of commanding influence on the racist right in the 1980s, according
to the Southern Poverty Law Center, an advocacy group that fights and tracks
hate crime.

"It is disturbing that Jewish-owned businesses in Los Angeles and New York City
were apparently intentionally targeted with the same piece of racist and bigoted
hate mail," said Amanda Susskind, ADL Pacific Southwest Regional Director in a
statement. "We are monitoring this and looking into whether these fliers are
connected with any particular hate group, or if they are appearing in other
places around the country."

According to the ADL, officials have been in contact with the FBI and the NYPD
about the incidents, and several of the individual businesses targeted included
the jeweler in LA as well as a jeweler, bakery and law firm in New York.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                             March 28, 2017 Tuesday

Emmy Rossum Is Latest Star Burglary Victim: $150,000 in Jewelry Stolen

BYLINE: Ryan Parker

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 239  words


Emmy Rossum's west Los Angeles home was burglarized last week.


The Shameless star's home in Benedict Canyon was burglarized sometime between
Wednesday and Friday, according to Los Angeles police. It is estimated that
$150,000 in jewelry and other items were taken from a safe inside the home.


Earlier reports published Tuesday said that the combination to the safe was
lying out in the open in the home. That claim is inaccurate, a person with
direct knowledge of the incident told The Hollywood Reporter. Whoever committed
the crime had to hunt for the combination.


Rossum is the latest victim in a rash of celebrity homes burglaries. Other
high-profile victims include Nick Young, Kendall Jenner, Kevin Hart and Dodgers
slugger Yasiel Puig.


Many of the above stars, including Rossum, have a large public presence on
Instagram. Those posts can telegraph to potential criminals when celebrities are
away from home.


"It's usually a lone individual trying to service their addiction. This is
different. This is organized crime," Lt. Todd Hankel of the San Fernando Valley
Knock Knock Task Force previously toldTHR.


Los Angeles police said the Rossum burglary case is ongoing. It is too soon to
say whether there is any connection to similar cases.

Thank you to the LAPD. I fully support the police efforts and dedication.- Emmy
Rossum (@emmyrossum) March 28, 2017

Read more: Hollywood Stars Hit by a Wave of Burglaries: "This Is Organized Crime
"

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2017 Prometheus Global Media, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 9, 2017 Thursday

LAPD chief calls captain's allegations of manipulated crime stats 'damn lies'

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 765 words

ABSTRACT

Capt. Lillian Carranza, a 28-year LAPD veteran, has filed a claim against the
city arguing that department command staffers have been intentionally
under-reporting crime statistics since at least 2014.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck has rebutted a captain's allegations that
command staff intentionally underreported violent crimes, arguing they were
"outrageous" and "damn lies."

Capt. Lillian Carranza, of the LAPD's Van Nuys Division, has filed a claim
against the city arguing that department command staffers have been
intentionally underreporting crime statistics since at least 2014 and that some
offenders have been promoted to higher ranks in the department.

"These claims are a slap in the face to the many detectives and command officers
who work so hard with a very difficult system to get crime statistics as close
to accurate as we possibly can," Beck said at a news conference in front of
LAPD's Operations Valley Bureau on Tuesday.

The city, he said, is nationally recognized for its efforts to comply with the
"outdated uniform crime reporting standards" developed by the FBI decades ago.

He noted he has 15 detectives assigned to do audits of the statistics to "make
sure we do the right thing."

Beck said both the department and the Office of Inspector General, which works
for the civilian Police Commission that oversees the department, "have looked
into similar claims as this over the last several years and found no
wrongdoing."

Beck said he is not retaliating against Carranza and would not allow anyone else
to do so.

Carranza recently filed a government claim against the city, which includes the
allegation that she has been denied a promotion to commander following her
complaints. Her attorney said he expects to file a lawsuit on her behalf in the
coming days.

While Carranza said she has supporting documentation to back up her claims, she
and her attorney have declined to release it so far, saying these documents
could be considered confidential by the department.

In response to Beck's comments, the Los Angeles Police Protective League, the
union that represents some 9,800 officers through the rank of lieutenant, noted
that prior offenses in the state's criminal justice system are considered
strikes and said Beck has accumulated strikes of his own.

"Chief Beck has accumulated two strikes by overseeing the manipulation of
violent crime statistics and this latest allegation, if proven true, would make
the Chief a three-striker," union officials said in a statement.

"It's time for transparency and honesty to be the foundation of our department,
not cooking the books to fool our elected officials and the public," they added.

Meanwhile, the head of the civilian panel that oversees the Police Department
has requested an update from its independent watchdog after the captain's
allegations.

Steve Soboroff, president of the Los Angeles Police Commission, said he has
asked the inspector general to update him regarding the "perception" of Carranza
concerning the alleged underreporting of violent crimes.

"Our goal is not to underreport or overreport anything," Soboroff, one of five
civilian commissioners, said Tuesday in a phone interview. "We want to do
everything exactly right, and we make adjustments, and we have processes like
the inspector general, like the department, when individuals might think that
something is wrong."

Carranza wrote a letter to the Office of the Inspector General in September 2016
saying she was contacting him "as a last resort."

"The manipulation of statistics has always been a concern, but blatantly
ignoring the underreporting of violent crime has reached epidemic proportions,"
she wrote in the email provided by her attorney.

Carranza, who said she conducted her own audits of statistics reported at
several stations, noted that she repeatedly brought the issue to the attention
of the director of operations and, most recently, the department's data
integrity unit without result.

Soboroff noted that he was not cc'd on that email and did not know whether the
Office of the Inspector General responded.

In Carranza's claim, she argued that the LAPD was underreporting violent crime
at certain stations by about 10 percent but has so far declined to release her
analysis.

Following a Los Angeles Times investigation, a 2015 audit by the OIG found that
a "significant number" of crimes that were categorized as simple assaults from
2008-2014 were actually aggravated assaults and should have been included as
part of the violent crime statistics that are submitted to the FBI and disclosed
to the public.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            October 7, 2017 Saturday

Racist hate mail with swastika sent to L.A., NYC

BYLINE: Wes Woods; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 406 words

ABSTRACT

There have been reports of at least four letters with no return address sent to
businesses in LA, Brooklyn and Manhattan, the ADL said Wednesday

FULL TEXT

Mail inscribed with a large swastika and anti-Semitic, racist and homophobic
language was sent to a Jewish business in Los Angeles and others in New York
City, authorities said Thursday.

The Los Angeles Police Department's hate crime coordinator received information
about the letter Thursday and was working with the FBI and the New York Police
Department, said Detective Ross Nemeroff of the LAPD's media relations office.

Since Friday there have been reports of at least four letters with no return
address sent to businesses in L.A., Brooklyn and Manhattan, the Anti-Defamation
League reported Wednesday.

Each piece of mail, which the ADL called letters, had the same imagery of the
Nazi symbol with the racial and anti-gay slurs underneath. The letters also read
"Make America Great Again!!!," "Juden Raus," and "Christian Identity Is Back."

Juden Raus is translated as "Jews Out."

Nemeroff said the "hate incident" involved a jeweler at the 600 block of Hill
Street in Los Angeles, but Nemeroff declined to give information on which
specific business was targeted. The detective had no immediate information on
when the incident occurred.

The case is not considered a hate crime, because in California the action would
have to involve a criminal threat, Nemeroff said.

"It's still investigated thoroughly," the detective said.

A detective is following possible leads, Nemeroff added.

Christian Identity is known as an anti-Semitic and racist theology that rose to
a position of commanding influence on the racist right in the 1980s, according
to the Southern Poverty Law Center, an advocacy group that fights and tracks
hate crime.

"It is disturbing that Jewish-owned businesses in Los Angeles and New York City
were apparently intentionally targeted with the same piece of racist and bigoted
hate mail," said Amanda Susskind, ADL Pacific Southwest Regional Director in a
statement. "We are monitoring this and looking into whether these fliers are
connected with any particular hate group, or if they are appearing in other
places around the country."

According to the ADL, officials have been in contact with the FBI and the NYPD
about the incidents, and several of the individual businesses targeted included
the jeweler in LA as well as a jeweler, bakery and law firm in New York.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                 DONALD R WAGER

                      10100 Santa Monica Blvd. 23Rd Floor
                             Los Angeles,  CA 90067
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (310) 772-2222
FAX: (310) 712-6189
URL: www.wagerlaw.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   California criminal defense, Los Angeles, lawyer, Donald R. Wager, has over
30 years experience handling serious crimes including drunk driving, DUI,
violent crimes, celebrity crimes, rape, sex crimes, felonies, misdemeanors,
juvenile law and has offices in Los Angeles

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              130 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                Crime Lab Design

                       26913 Northwestern Hwy. Suite 200
                             Southfield,  MI 48034
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (248) 262-1620
URL: www.crimelabdesign.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 350

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Crime Lab Design provides the forensic science community with architectural,
engineering, and laboratory planning solutions required for modern crime labs,
DNA facilities, and medical examiner facilities. With the combined talents and
experience of nearly 500 professionals, we offer the expertise and in-house
resources necessary to program, plan, and design facility updates, renovations,
additions, or new construction of technically advanced forensic laboratory
facilities. We have worked with numerous clients across the U.S. and overseas.
For example, Crime Lab Design provided full architectural and engineering
services for the Los Angeles Regional Crime Laboratory, serving multiple
agencies in Los Angeles and Los Angeles County, California. We designed the new
209,080-gsf criminal science facility to meet ASCLD/LAB guidelines for
accreditation. It features advanced technology in the form of equipment and
infrastructure, efficient and productive laboratory environments to perform
vital forensic analyses, related support spaces, offices, educational and
training areas, storage, and nearby adequate parking. Construction was completed
in May 2007.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 70,000,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              131 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 23, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Hollywood's sex scandals put LAPD in new territory;
Department retools strategy to handle an unprecedented influx of allegations
against high-profile figures.

BYLINE: Richard Winton

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Metro Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words


The flood of sexual assault allegations coming out of the Hollywood
entertainment industry has the Los Angeles Police Department negotiating
uncharted territory.

Never before has the department received so many sexual assault allegations
involving high-profile figures at one time, including many complex cases that
are years old with multiple alleged victims, officials say.

The department has re-engineered its detective staff to deal with the influx.
The LAPD has established five teams of two detectives to exclusively investigate
allegations of sexual misconduct in Hollywood. The teams include members of the
cold-case unit, because those detectives are experts in dealing with old
criminal allegations that lack physical evidence.

"They know where to go. They know how to jog people's memories," said LAPD Capt.
Billy Hayes, who oversees the Robbery-Homicide Division and is managing the task
force. "We've [gotten] an unprecedented number of calls."

The LAPD now has 28 open investigations related to Hollywood and media figures,
including mogul Harvey Weinstein, actor Ed Westwick, writer Murray Miller and
agent Tyler Grasham.

The department has also taken 37 other sex crimes reports that it has sent to
other law enforcement agencies, believing the alleged crimes occurred in those
jurisdictions.

Two main types of crimes have been alleged: criminal sexual assault such as
rape, and the lesser crime of lewd acts such as unwanted touching or
masturbation. Lewd act allegations have proved more challenging because the
statute of limitations -- the time period during which a crime can be prosecuted
-- in California is as little as one year. Other sex crimes have much longer
statutes of limitation. For most cases of rape, it's 10 years.

The LAPD has already established a triage strategy. LAPD Chief Charlie Beck is
requiring that the department perform interviews and take detailed reports from
anyone who makes allegations, however old.

Then, detectives work with the Los Angeles County district attorney's newly
established Hollywood sex crimes task force to determine whether the alleged
crime occurred within the statute of limitations. After that, detectives begin
more in-depth investigations.

Hayes estimated that in 95% of the cases, there is no physical evidence. That
leaves detectives focusing heavily on witness accounts, which, given the
circumstances of many intimate claims, are limited. So that leaves detectives
looking for corroborating witnesses, including people whom the alleged victims
told of the incidents when they happened.

Some of the alleged crimes occurred at hotels. So police have been going though
reservation logs, employee schedules and video surveillance looking for clues
and corroborating evidence, Hayes said.

Weinstein has been accused of rape and forcible oral copulation by an Italian
actress in 2013 as well as lewd acts by a second woman in 2015. The 2013
allegation occurred within the statute of limitations for rape, but the alleged
2015 incident is believed to be out of statute.

Detectives interviewed Weinstein's rape accuser for 2 1/2 hours and are now
seeking to verify the actress' account by interviewing those whom she told about
the alleged attack at the time. The woman, according to sources familiar with
the case, told at least three people contemporaneously about the alleged
encounter. The sources spoke on the condition of anonymity because they are not
authorized to reveal details of the case.

Legal experts said even incidents that occurred beyond the statute of
limitations have potential value.

"Under California law, a prosecutor can put on witnesses who can testify to a
defendant's propensity to commit the crime. Here we have many prominent
actresses alleging similar acts. I believe a judge would let them testify if
Weinstein is charged with a sexual assault," said Dmitry Gorin, a former L.A.
County sex crimes prosecutor.

In the case of Weinstein, the LAPD is working closely with police in Beverly
Hills, New York and London, which all have open criminal cases involving the
mogul.

"The victims in each investigation could testify in each others' cases depending
on the law in the jurisdiction," Gorin said. "There could be an alleged victim
in England who comes to L.A. to testify."

So far, no criminal charges have been brought against Weinstein.

Besides Weinstein, the LAPD is also investigating other high-profile allegations
including:

* Actress Kristina Cohen's accusation that "Gossip Girl" actor Westwick raped
her at a West Los Angeles home while she was trying to sleep in a guest bedroom.
He has denied any wrongdoing.

* An allegation of sexual assault made against "Girls" writer Miller, who denies
wrongdoing.

* An allegation of unwanted groping made by "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" actor Terry
Crews.

Law enforcement sources and legal experts say building the cases is going to
take time. Detectives will likely interview witnesses and accusers numerous
times before bringing a case to prosecutors.

County Dist. Atty. Jackie Lacey announced this month that she had assigned a
group of veteran sex crimes prosecutors to work together to examine the cases
and "ensure a uniform approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of
any case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal
prosecution."

Some cases involving Hollywood allegations have already been closed.

Actor Corey Feldman recently reported to the LAPD that he was sexually abused by
two adults as a child in the industry. But police said the case could not go
forward because the statute of limitations was already up.

But the LAPD praised Feldman for coming forward.

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

Twitter: @lacrimes

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POLICE are investigating Harvey Weinstein.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Jordan
Strauss Invision/AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

L.A. might sue over sanctuary city rule;
Grant to combat gang crime may be in jeopardy

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles could be barred from receiving an annual federal grant that goes
toward fighting gang crime because of new Justice Department requirements on
illegal immigration, with City Attorney Mike Feuer saying Monday the city might
file a lawsuit if those requirements aren't clarified by the end of the week.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles could be barred from receiving an annual federal grant that goes
toward fighting gang crime because of new Justice Department requirements on
illegal immigration, with City Attorney Mike Feuer saying Monday the city might
file a lawsuit if those requirements aren't clarified by the end of the week.

Feuer sent a letter to Department of Justice officials seeking "written guidance
that unambiguously clarifies" the rule, which requires that the city notify the
Department of Homeland Security at least 48 hours before it plans to release "an
alien in the jurisdiction's custody" wanted by U.S. immigration officials.

The city attorney said Los Angeles cannot currently comply with the 48-hour
notification rule, which is part of the Justice Department's crackdown on

so-called sanctuary cities.

The Los Angeles area could receive $1.9 million under the Edward Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grant program in the upcoming year, with $1.5 million going
to the city and the rest to the county to help fund a joint-agency gang crime
suppression program.

But one of the conditions Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently unveiled for
receiving the grant could trip up the city's ability to obtain the funds for the
upcoming year.

Feuer wrote in his letter, dated Monday and addressed to Tracey Trautman, acting
director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, that "unlike state prisons or Los
Angeles County jails, the city's detention facilities are not used to house
inmates serving post-conviction sentences."

"As such, because Los Angeles rarely, if ever, holds detainees for 48 hours'
time, it is not possible for the city, or other similarly situated cities, to
comply with the 48-hour advance notice provision posted in the JAG solicitation,
without detaining individuals beyond the point at which they are entitled to
release," he said.

Feuer explained that "any person detained by the Los Angeles Police Department
on an open, nonwarrant criminal charge ... must be subjected to a probable cause
determination ... by a magistrate within 48 hours of his/her arrest."

"Absent a magistrate's determination of probable cause, the detained arrestee
must be released from custody without unnecessary delay," he wrote.

Feuer notes that the Justice Department typically makes an exception when such
requirements do not apply to the circumstances of a particular municipal
government by qualifying the requirement with the words "if possible."

Feuer noted the city is on a time crunch, with applications for the grant due
Sept. 5, and he demanded that the Justice Department respond with clarification
by this Friday.

"If the department chooses not to give us that clarification," or says the "if
possible" language was intentionally left out, "then it's very likely that we'll
have to sue to protect our program," Feuer said in an interview.

The mayor's office is usually in charge of applying for the grant.

Los Angeles city and county officials use the Byrne grant funds to help pay for
a joint-agency program, Community Law Enforcement and Recovery, or CLEAR, that
was started in 1997, according to the mayor's office.

The program is aimed at curbing gang-related violence, focusing on nine areas in
the city, including the Foothill Division in the San Fernando Valley, northeast
Los Angeles, South Los Angeles and Boyle Heights.

Feuer's letter comes as Chicago is challenging the grant rules, with officials
in that city filing a lawsuit against the Justice Department on Monday.

Los Angeles city officials last weekquestioned the legalityof the new
requirements and said Feuer's office has been looking into the matter.

Feuer may also be getting some assistance from the law firm where one of
Sessions' predecessors, Eric Holder, is a partner.

The City Council last Friday authorized the city attorney tonegotiate and move
forward with a "pro bono contract"with the law firmCovington & Burling LLP"to
assist in his office's efforts related to the new (Byrne) grant conditions
imposed by the federal government."

Holder was a partner at the firm for about eight years before becoming the
attorney general in President Barack Obama's administration. He returned to the
firm after he stepped down from his White House cabinet post in 2015.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              May 4, 2017 Thursday

Man accused of kidnapping girlfriend Man injured in pipe attack Woman accused of
robbing other woman Gas station robbery nets culprit $50

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 494 words

ABSTRACT

crime briefs from the San Gabriel Valley Tribune and Whittier areas

FULL TEXT

An East L.A. man is accused of kidnapping and domestic violence after witnesses
reported seeing him force his girlfriend into a car in Duarte on Wednesday
afternoon, officials said.

Deputies first responded to the area of Millbrae and Central avenues about 1:45
p.m., Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John McClure said. Witnesses reported
seeing a man forcing a woman into a car before driving off.

Deputies soon identified the possible suspect and headed to his home on Ferguson
Drive in East Los Angeles, on the border between Commerce and East Los Angeles,
McClure said.

The man and the woman complied with deputies' orders to come out of the home
about 5 p.m., he said.

The woman told deputies she had not been the victim of a crime, McClure said.
But based on witness accounts, deputies arrested the man on suspicion of
kidnapping and domestic violence.

The suspect's identity was not available pending the booking process.

A Pasadena man ended up with a 4-inch cut to the forehead when another man hit
him with a 16-inch long metal pipe during an argument Monday.

Officers didn't know what started the dispute in the 1700 block of East Colorado
Boulevard which was reported to Pasadena police at 8:25 p.m. Lt. John Mercado
said a Pasadena resident and the suspect got into an argument. The suspect
pulled out a galvanized pipe from a nearby car.

The two wrestled for control of the pipe. Mercado said the suspect struck the
victim in the forehead then fled in a black car.

Firefighters treated the victim at the scene, according to Mercado.

Police described the suspect as a white man between 50 to 60, with hazel eyes,
dirty blond hair, a thin build and 6 feet 4 inches tall. He wore all black
clothing.

Officers arrested a woman for allegedly attacking another woman and stealing her
purse on Monday.

Lt. John Mercado said the victim, a Long Beach woman in her 40s, complained of
pain to her head and lower back.

He said the victim was standing at the corner of Del Mar Boulevard and Raymond
Avenue at 6:55 p.m. when the suspect walked up to her.

"They began to talk. For an unknown reason, the suspect became irate," Mercado
said.

He said the suspect began to assault the victim, overpowered her, took the purse
and ran.

Police arrested 37-year-old Barbara Woodward on suspicion of robbery. She is
being held at the Century Regional Detention Facility in Lynwood on $50,000
bail. She has a $26,000 bail for another case, according to the booking records.

A man who robbed a gas station Wednesday left with $50.

Sgt. Eddie Lopez of the sheriff's Industry station said nobody was injured
during the robbery at the Mobil gas station, 1004 N. Hacienda Blvd.

A man entered the gas station at around 9:50 a.m. and brandished a gun. The
clerk put money in a bag and handed it over, according to Lopez.

The suspect, described as a Latino in his 40s, fled in a burgundy van or sport
utility vehicle.



LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday

Charges in 1981 death of prominent Southern California politicians brother

BYLINE: Daily News, The Associated Press

LENGTH: 323 words



HIGHLIGHT: After more than three decades, prosecutors have charged a man with
killing the brother of Los Angeles County Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas.


Reading this on your phone? Stay up to date with our free mobile app. Get it
from the Apple app store  or the Google Play store.

LOS ANGELES  After more than three decades, prosecutors have charged a man with
killing the brother of Los Angeles County Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas.

Michael Locklin, 61, was charged last week with stabbing Michael Thomas to death
during a 1981 robbery after police matched his DNA to samples taken from the
crime scene, according to a felony complaint.

District attorneys spokesman Greg Risling confirmed to the Los Angeles Times
Wednesday night that Michael Thomas is the brother of Mark Ridley-Thomas, who in
recent decades has been one of the most prominent politicians in the LA area.

Locklin is being held without bail and is scheduled to be arraigned later this
month. It wasnt clear whether he has an attorney who could comment on the case.

The killing came 10 years before Ridley-Thomas was first elected to the Los
Angeles City Council, where he served until 2002. Then came stints in the state
Senate and Assembly before he was elected to the county Board of Supervisors
last year.

Neither the Times nor The Associated Press could reach him or a representative
for comment on Wednesday night.

The killing got little attention at the time, and Locklins recent arrest also
went largely unnoticed.

Investigators had identified Locklin as a person of interest in Thomass killing
as early as 1989 when Locklin was serving time for sexually assaulting a minor,
but did not have enough evidence to file charges, LAPD Capt. Peter Whittingham
said.

Whittinghams homicide unit recently doubled the number of detectives working on
cold cases, and a reexamination of the evidence in the Thomas case brought DNA
tests and the match with Locklin, the captain said.

He said Locklin had prior contact with Thomas before the killing, but would not
elaborate further.

Locklin has a long police record mostly for sexual crimes.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            March 22, 2017 Wednesday

LAPD: Latinos report fewer sex crimes amid deportation fears

BYLINE: Michael Balsamo; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 333 words

ABSTRACT

mb Los Angeles' police chief says reports of sexual assault and domestic
violence by Latino residents have dropped amid concerns that those in the
country illegally could face deportation if they interact with police

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Reports of sexual assaults and domestic violence among Los
Angeles' Latino population have plummeted since the beginning of the year amid
fears that immigrants in the country illegally could face deportation if they
interact with police or appear in court, the city's police chief said Tuesday.

Since the beginning of 2017, sexual assault reports have dropped 25 percent and
domestic violence reports have decreased by 10 percent among Latinos, Los
Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck said Tuesday. Similar decreases
weren't seen in other ethnic groups, he said.

"Imagine your sister, your mother, not reporting a sexual assault for fear that
their family will be torn apart," Beck said Tuesday.

Around the nation, President Donald Trump's efforts to crack down on the
estimated 11 million immigrants living illegally in the U.S. have sparked fear
and anxiety, leading many people to try to avoid any contact with law
enforcement.

Beck said there was a "strong correlation" between the timing of the decreased
reporting and fears of accelerated efforts to round up and deport immigrants.

Josh Rubenstein, a Los Angeles police spokesman, said the numbers were
"concerning" and that the department is continuing to look at "every element
contributing to the drop in reporting."

Advocates say the unease among immigrants is forcing the victims of violent
crimes to stay silent.

"We are seeing immigrant families potentially being so afraid of the ultimate
punishment, which deportation represents, that they may forego their chances of
justice," said Jorge-Mario Cabrera, of the immigrant advocacy group CHIRLA. "We
do not want to be in a situation where victims of crimes remain silent because
they fear deportation. That's just horrible and unthinkable."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

New arrests in deadly 1993 LA apartment fire

BYLINE: Christopher Weber; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 440 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles police say three people are in custody and a fourth is being sought
in connection with a deadly fire that struck an apartment building in 1993

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Detective work decades after fire swept through a Los Angeles
apartment building filled with poor immigrants has led to arrests of alleged
gang members and the prospect of murder charges for the deaths of seven
children, three women and two late-term fetuses, authorities said Monday.

"They just would not let this case go," Police Chief Charlie Beck told a news
conference.

Authorities alleged that the 1993 fire was set as revenge against an apartment
manager who tried to stop rampant drug dealing in the building during an era
that Beck called "the zenith of violent crime in Los Angeles."

"A new manager came into the location and tried to do the right thing and stop
the narcotics sales," Beck said. "We believe these horrible murders were done to
facilitate drug sales."

Ramiro Valerio, 43, of Palmdale, and Joseph Monge, 41, of Montebello were
arrested Feb. 3. Johanna Lopez, 51, was already in custody on related charges
and was to be formally arrested in the new case on Tuesday. Valerio was held on
$25 million bail. Monge was held on $2 million bail.

A fourth person was also being sought, but no information about him was released
because he fled the country.

Police were seeking 12 counts of murder against each along with special
circumstances involving multiple victims, gang affiliation and arson.

The fire erupted on May 3, 1993, in a three-story, 40-unit apartment building in
Westlake, an older section of the city west of downtown.

Nearly all the tenants of the $500-a-month, one-bedroom apartments were
immigrants from Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala.

Residents tried to escape by jumping from windows and climbing down bedsheets
tied to balconies.

Neighbors formed a human chain to pass down children from upper floors. Other
children were dropped from balconies into waiting hands.

Firefighters worked on the injured on the sidewalk out front as a throng watched
the tragedy unfold.

Then-Fire Chief Donald Manning later told the City Council that seven of the
dead were found in a hallway outside a third-floor apartment.

Investigators found that the fire started on second floor and spread throughout
the building because fire doors were held open by nails driven into the floor.
In one case, a fire door was missing.

"Had those all been in place, the fire would not have spread that quickly,"
Manning said at the time. "It would have been contained to a much smaller area
of the building and certainly would not have got to the third floor."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 11, 2017 Wednesday

Mary Star physics teacher arrested in child pornography case

BYLINE: Larry Altman; laltman@scng.com @larryaltman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 326 words

ABSTRACT

Teacher arrested on suspicion of child porn

FULL TEXT

A physics teacher at Mary Star of the Sea High School in San Pedro was arrested
Tuesday on suspicion of possession of child pornography.

Daniel T. O'Connell, 32, was arrested about 8 a.m., jail records show.

Police investigators with the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet Crimes
Against Children unit took him into custody, but information about the arrest
was not immediately disclosed.

Mary Star Principal Rita Dever sent a letter to parents Tuesday afternoon
announcing the arrest.

"The Archdiocese was made aware last week that Mr. O'Connell was under
investigation and has been cooperating fully with the police since that time,"
Dever said. "At this time, the police have indicated that Mr. O'Connell's
alleged activities do not involve any students at Mary Star of the Sea High
School nor did they take place on the Mary Star campus."

O'Connell is a long-term substitute teacher at the school," said Adrian Marquez,
a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. The campus website shows he
taught physics and AP physics classes.

In her letter, Dever said the Archdiocese's Applied Technology team conducted a
review Tuesday of the "filtering and safeguards in place for internet access at
the school and on school-supplied devices."

"They determined Mary Star has appropriate internet filters and safeguards for
students, faculty and staff," Dever said.

O'Connell's records also showed he was in full compliance with the Archdiocese's
"safe environment" requirements, including mandatory fingerprinting, a clear
background check, and other certifications.

"We ask you to join us in our commitment to ensure the continued safety and
well-being of every young person in our care, and to please keep everyone
impacted by this matter in your prayers," Dever said.

The arrest reportedly occurred at O'Connell's rented home in Rancho Palos
Verdes. Jail records showed he was held on $20,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 11, 2017 Wednesday

Mary Star physics teacher arrested in child pornography case

BYLINE: Larry Altman; laltman@scng.com @larryaltman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 326 words

ABSTRACT

Teacher arrested on suspicion of child porn

FULL TEXT

A physics teacher at Mary Star of the Sea High School in San Pedro was arrested
Tuesday on suspicion of possession of child pornography.

Daniel T. O'Connell, 32, was arrested about 8 a.m., jail records show.

Police investigators with the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet Crimes
Against Children unit took him into custody, but information about the arrest
was not immediately disclosed.

Mary Star Principal Rita Dever sent a letter to parents Tuesday afternoon
announcing the arrest.

"The Archdiocese was made aware last week that Mr. O'Connell was under
investigation and has been cooperating fully with the police since that time,"
Dever said. "At this time, the police have indicated that Mr. O'Connell's
alleged activities do not involve any students at Mary Star of the Sea High
School nor did they take place on the Mary Star campus."

O'Connell is a long-term substitute teacher at the school," said Adrian Marquez,
a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. The campus website shows he
taught physics and AP physics classes.

In her letter, Dever said the Archdiocese's Applied Technology team conducted a
review Tuesday of the "filtering and safeguards in place for internet access at
the school and on school-supplied devices."

"They determined Mary Star has appropriate internet filters and safeguards for
students, faculty and staff," Dever said.

O'Connell's records also showed he was in full compliance with the Archdiocese's
"safe environment" requirements, including mandatory fingerprinting, a clear
background check, and other certifications.

"We ask you to join us in our commitment to ensure the continued safety and
well-being of every young person in our care, and to please keep everyone
impacted by this matter in your prayers," Dever said.

The arrest reportedly occurred at O'Connell's rented home in Rancho Palos
Verdes. Jail records showed he was held on $20,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday

Racial slur painted on James' West L.A. home

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: C,C; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 158 words

ABSTRACT

LeBron James' West L.A. home was vandalized.

FULL TEXT

Police are investigating today after a West Los Angeles home of professional
basketball player LeBron James was found vandalized with a "racial slur" painted
on a front gate, authorities said.

After the vandalism call was made at 6:44 a.m., the Los Angeles Police
Department's West Los Angeles Division responded to the home of the Cleveland
Cavaliers' superstar,Officer Norma Eisenman said.

"Some type of slur was painted on his gate, and property management painted over
it already," she said.

She said she was unable to confirm what specifically was scrawled on the gate.

When asked whether the incident would be investigated as a hate crime, Eisenman
said "it has not come out yet, but it's looking that way."

Eisenman could not say whether there was any security footage of the incident,or
whether James was home at the time.

The incident was first reported by the celebrity news website TMZ.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             April 11, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 991 words

ABSTRACT

Blotter for Tuesday, xxxxxx xx Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Armed robbery: March 29, 21800 block of South Main Street.

Armed robbery: March 30, 100 block of East Sepulveda Boulevard.

Assault with a deadly weapon: March 28, Alondra Boulevard and Broadway.

Assault with a deadly weapon: March 29, Central Avenue and Victoria Street.

Residential burglary: March 28, 20200 block of South Galway Avenue.

Burglary: March 27, 22000 block of South Main Street.

Burglary: March 27, 22100block of South Main Street.

Burglary: March 27, 2700 block of East Carson Street.

Stolen vehicles:

March 27, 21100 block of South Main Street.

March 28, 100 block of East Carson Street.

March 29, 21300 block of South Martin Street.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Strong-arm robbery: March 23, 900 block of South Sepulveda Boulevard.

Strong-arm robbery: March 29, 700 block of West Torrance Boulevard.

Grand theft: March 28, 19700 block of Hamilton Avenue.

Stolen vehicles:

March 28, 20900 block of South Normandie Avenue.

TORRANCE

Armed robbery: 9:40 p.m. March 30, 1000 block of Sartori Avenue. Someone cut the
victim with a machete, brandished a gun and took a cellphone, wallet and keys.

Battery: 11:30 p.m. April 1, 19800 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. The victim was
slapped in the face.

Residential burglary: 8 p.m. March 30 to 7 a.m. March 31, 21000 block of
Reynolds Drive. A bicycle was reported stolen from an open garage.

Resident burglary: 10:12 p.m. March 27, 18400 block of Wilton Place. A pet-door
insert was smashed out to enter. The location was ransacked. Money and jewelry
were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 2 p.m. March 27 to 7:30 a.m. March 29, 2000 block of
Artesia Boulevard. Garage doors on condos tented for fumigation were pried open.
The loss, if any, was not known at the time of the report.

Residential burglary: 2-3 p.m. March 27, 4100 block of 175th Street. A screen
was cut and a glass door was smashed, setting off an alarm. No loss reported.

Residential burglary: 6:30 p.m. March 26 to 9 p.m. March 27, 3700 block of 181st
Street. A sliding glass door was smashed. The location was ransacked. Jewelry
and money were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 4-9:30 p.m. March 26, 2500 block of 166th Place. A sliding
glass door was smashed. Computers and IDs were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 9 a.m. March 26 to 1:15 p.m. March 29, 3700 block of 175th
Street. A window was pried open. The location was ransacked. Electronics,
furniture, shoes and gym equipment were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 5:05-5:09 a.m. March 31, 2000 block of Carson Street. A
door was pried open. The loss, if any, was not known at the time of the report.

Commercial burglary: 9 p.m. March 29 to 6:40 a.m. March 30, 2800 block of
Pacific Coast Highway. A window was smashed. Hair products were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 12:53-1 a.m. March 29, 21300 block of Hawthorne Boulevard.
A window was smashed. Liquor bottles were reported stolen from a locked office
cabinet.

Commercial burglary: 8:55 p.m. March 27 to 2:58 a.m. March 28, 17300 block of
Hawthorne Boulevard. A door was smashed. The interior was ransacked. No loss
reported.

Commercial burglary: 7 p.m. March 27 to 8 a.m. March 28, 2700 block of Sepulveda
Boulevard. A door was smashed. Purses and wallets were reported stolen.

Theft: 2-2:45 p.m. April 1, 2500 block of Redondo Beach Boulevard. An unattended
cellphone/case, an ID and money were reported stolen from a table.

Theft: 7 p.m. March 31 to 9 a.m. April 1, 1700 block of Gramercy Avenue. A
license plate was reported stolen from a parked vehicle.

Theft: 6 p.m. March 31 to 8 a.m. April 3, 3800 block of Del Amo Boulevard. A
laptop computer was reported stolen from a business.

Theft: 7:50-8:17 p.m. March 30, 20400 block of Anza Avenue. Someone attempted to
forcibly take the victim's purse from her possession.

Theft: 10 p.m. March 28 to 9 a.m. March 29, 2000 block of Cabrillo Avenue. A
tailgate was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 5 p.m. March 28 to 8:15 a.m. March 29, 3700 block of Garnet Street. A
bicycle was reported stolen from a carport.

Theft: 4:15-4:50 p.m. March 28, 3500 block of Carson Street. A lock was
defeated. A wallet was reported stolen from a locker.

Theft: 7:30-8:30 a.m. March 28, 2600 block of Pacific Coast Highway. A lock was
cut from a locker. Property taken from the locker was used to enter a vehicle. A
key and a purse were reported stolen.

Theft: 9:30 a.m. March 27, 2400 block of 208th Street. Licenses plates were
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 3:30-4 p.m. March 26, 2500 block of Redondo Beach Boulevard. Someone
bumped against the victim and took a wallet from her pocket.

Theft: 12:45-8:26 p.m. March 26, 4700 block of 191st Street. A delivered parcel
was reported stolen.

Theft: Noon to 12:40 p.m. March 26, 2800 block of Plaza Del Amo. A cellphone was
reported stolen from an unattended purse.

Stolen vehicles:

1:52 a.m. April 1, 22500 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2012 Nissan Altima.

9 a.m. March 31 to 8:30 a.m. April 1, 24600 block of Park Street. 2003 Ford
F-250.

10:30 p.m. March 30 to 12:30 p.m. March 31, 300 block of Palos Verdes Boulevard.
2015 Lance motorcycle.

5:30-10:30 a.m. March 30, 2000 block of 180th Place. 1996 Honda Accord.

4:47 a.m. March 30, 22700 block of Evalyn Avenue. 2001 Chevrolet Camaro.

2:37-2:47 a.m. March 29, 24000 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2009 trailer.

1-1:30 p.m. March 28, 18700 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. 1994 Honda Accord.

1-3 p.m. March 26, 21400 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2014 Kia Rio.

9:28 a.m. March 26, 3300 block of Artesia Boulevard. 2007 Suzuki motorcycle.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

LeBron James' house in L.A. spray-painted with a racial slur, police say

BYLINE: The Washington Post

LENGTH: 202 words



HIGHLIGHT: TMZ reported Wednesday that a home owned by NBA star LeBron James in
Los Angeles was vandalized when someone spray-painted the n-word on his front
gate.


By Matt Bonesteel, (c) 2017, The Washington Post

TMZ reported Wednesday that a home owned by NBA star LeBron James in Los Angeles
was vandalized when someone spray-painted the n-word on his front gate.

Los Angeles Police Department detectives are investigating the incident as a
possible hate crime and are examining security-camera footage from nearby homes
in an attempt to identify the perpetrator.

The graffiti was covered up by the house's property management company, USA
Today reported, after it was discovered about 6:45 a.m. PDT Wednesday. James was
not living at the residence at the time of the vandalism, an LAPD spokeswoman
told The Associated Press, as he's preparing for the Cleveland Cavaliers' NBA
Finals series against the Golden State Warriors.

According to publicly available records, James purchased the home in Los
Angeles's tony Brentwood neighborhood for just less than $21 million in 2015.

California has a fairly severe punishment for vandalism if it reaches a certain
amount of damage, Sports Illustrated law expert Michael McCann reports: "If
suspects who vandalized LeBron's home are caught & damage is at least $400, they
can be prosecuted for felonies (up to 3 yrs in prison)," he tweeted.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday

L.A. leaders seek to bring street vendors 'out of the shadows'

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 608 words

ABSTRACT

While the act of selling hotdogs, fruits and other products on Los Angeles
sidewalks is no longer a crime, vendors could still be cited with a misdemeanor
if they are operating in public parks.

FULL TEXT

While the act of selling hotdogs, fruits and other products on Los Angeles
sidewalks is no longer a crime, vendors could still be cited with a misdemeanor
if they are operating in public parks.

Activists say this means that despite the city's efforts, many vendors who are
in the country illegally could still be slapped with a criminal offense that
could be used as a reason for federal immigration officials to deport them.

Citing those concerns, three Los Angeles City Council members began the process
this week toward reducing penalties for vending in public parks, beaches and
recreation areas from a misdemeanor to an administrative violation.

In a motion introduced Tuesday, City Council members Mitch O'Farrell and Jose
Huizar cited the "polarizing" crackdown on undocumented immigrants by the
"current (White House) administration." The motion was seconded by Councilman
Bob Blumenfield, who represents the west San Fernando Valley.

In recent days, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency threatened to
expanded its arrests, including of undocumented bystanders who were not
initially targeted, after Gov. Jerry Brown's signing of a bill to make
California a "sanctuary state."

President Donald Trump has also said he is ending a program, known as DACA, in
which federal officials refrain from enforcing immigration laws against people
who were brought to the country illegally as children. That program has allowed
many, mostly younger immigrants, to stay in the country without being deported,
and to be issued permits to work.

The council members' motion Tuesday aims to remove misdemeanor penalties from
Section 63.44 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, which still treats vending at
public parks, beaches and other recreation areas as a crime. Crimes tied to
street vending is considered an offense that could trigger deportation
proceedings.

The prohibition on park vending was reinstated in 2015, after it was suspended
for several years, and not only disallows vendors, but also people services such
as yoga or dog training classes at parks.

Street vending is still illegal everywhere in Los Angeles, but the punishment
for those selling food and wares on sidewalks has been limited to financial
penalties.

While the City Council continues to try to develop a permitting program that
would legalize street vending, city leaders have moved more quickly to
decriminalize the activity, removing misdemeanor penalties from the sidewalk
vending ban in February.

That was done "in order to keep our mostly immigrant vendors out of the
overreaching aggressive arms of our federal government looking to target
otherwise law-abiding immigrants for deportation," Huizar said in a statement.

Now the council members are calling for a similar step to be taken with the park
vending, as the city continues to enforce its prohibition on the activity.

Huizar said that the federal government's increased crackdown on immigrants
"does underscore the need for a street vending ordinance," one that he and
fellow councilman Curren Price initially called for in 2013.

While he did not say when the city would be ready with its promised citywide
vendor permitting program, Huizar acknowledged that "the time is well past due
to bring these vendors out of the shadows and allow them to make an honest
living in a safe and regulated city program and join other big cities throughout
the nation who already have a legal street vending program in place."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 17, 2017 Friday

LGBT victims pass blacks as targets for hate crimes

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

ABSTRACT

Hate crimes in which there was evidence of white supremacist ideology surged by
67 percent from 63 incidents in 2015 to 105 incidents last year.

FULL TEXT

Nearly a quarter of all hate crimes reported in Los Angeles County last year
were based on sexual orientation, making gay men, lesbians and LGBT
organizations the group most frequently targeted for the first time in many
years, according to a new report.

The last time the number of homophobic hate crimes exceeded the number of
anti-black crimes was in 2002, according to the Los Angeles County Commission on
Human Relations.

There were 118 reported hate crimes based on sexual orientation in 2016, which
is two less than the prior year, according to the Commission's 2016 Hate Crime
Report released Thursday. Eighty-one percent of these hate crimes were violent.

They included one hate murder, in which prosecutors alleged that Shehadeh Khalil
Issa

of North Hills killed his openly gay adult son, Amir, in April of last year
partly because of "an extreme hatred of his son's sexuality." Issa was found
guilty of premeditated murder in the death of his  wife and son as well as for
the hate crime allegation.

The total number of hate crimes reported in the county last year was 482, one
less than 2015, when there was a 24 percent increase over 2014 and the highest
total since 2011, according to the report.

Meanwhile, gender-based crimes jumped by 77 percent last year, most of which
were anti-transgender crimes. In fact, anti-transgender crimes jumped 72 percent
from 18 to 31 reported incidents, with a staggering 97 percent of a violent
nature - more than any major victim group, the commission found.

"It's alarming (and) at the same time, I always know that the numbers that law
enforcement report compared to the number of clients I see coming through my
office is always different because there is this fear of going to law
enforcement and reporting because there is a fear of revictimization," said
Mariana Marroquin, a transgender woman who is program manager for the
Anti-Violence Project at the Los Angeles LGBT Center.

Latina transgender women, like Marroquin, were targeted the most, the report
found. Marroquin said she fled her native Guatemala after she was attacked for
her gender identity, stripped naked and heard her attackers plot her death in
1998. Then one day after she had moved to the U.S. in 2002, she was called a
homophobic slur by a random man and punched in the face while walking home in
the Hollywood area.

However, the work being done with the transgender community about knowing their
rights is paying off, she said, because people are more willing to come forward
and report such incidents than they have been in the past.

Another alarming trend is that hate crimes in which there was evidence of white
supremacist ideology - including acts of vandalism in which swastikas or other
hate symbols were used - surged by 67 percent from 63 in 2015 to 105 incidents
in 2016. This made up more than one-fifth of all hate crimes reported last year,
up from 13 percent the previous year.

Los Angeles County Supervisor Hilda Solis, who represents the San Gabriel Valley
and east and northeast L.A., said she has witnessed this in the southeastern
part of her district. In recent months, they've had to alert the L.A. County
Sheriff's Department because white supremacists and anti-immigrant groups have
disrupted city council meetings in communities like Cudahy - yelling hateful
rhetoric and brandishing weapons at times.

"Most hate crimes appear to be motivated by race, ethnicity or national origin,"
she said.

The commission also found that between the Nov. 8, 2016, presidential election
and Dec. 31, 82 hate crimes were reported in the county - representing an
increase of seven hate crimes or 9 percent from the same period the previous
year.

"While seven additional crimes may not seem like a lot, we have to remember that
in the previous year there was an exceptionally large jump (47 percent) in the
number of hate crimes in November and December of 2015 following the terrorist
attacks in Paris and then in neighboring San Bernardino," said Robin S. Toma,
executive director of the L.A. County Commission on Human Relations, referring
to a surge in anti-Muslim and Middle Eastern hate crimes.

President Donald Trump's name was touted in several reported hate crimes during
this period. Among them, an Asian woman in Woodland Hills was yelled at by two
white men in a car while walking her dogs on Nov. 11 of last year. Using racial
slurs, the perpetrators told her to go back to where she came from, yelled
"Trump town!" and struck her with eggs, according to the report.

Blacks were the second most targeted group, with 112 incidents reported though
anti-black hate crimes declined 19 percent over 2015. Jews were the third most
targeted group, composing 67 percent of the 101 religious hate crimes despite
making up a small percentage of the population. Mexicans were the fourth most
targeted group while transgender individuals were the fifth.

Meanwhile, whites were the only racial/ethnic group to experience a sharp
increase in hate crimes. Anti-white crimes jumped from 11 incidents to 27
incidents - or 145 percent - but still occurred at a lower rate than other
ethnic groups, the report found.

The largest number of hate crimes reported last year - 95 - took place in the
sprawling San Fernando Valley, followed by the metro region, which stretches
from West Hollywood to Boyle Heights. But when taking into account each area's
population, the metro region had the highest rate of hate crimes followed by the
west region V, which includes Beverly Hills, Culver City and a number of
affluent beach cities.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            November 24, 2017 Friday

Los Angeles: 2 must-reads that explore the citys myth and meaning

BYLINE: Martha Ross

LENGTH: 347 words



HIGHLIGHT: "L.A. Noir: The Struggle for the Soul of America's Most Seductive
City" and "Mildred Pierce" capture soul of L.A.


So many of Americas greatest writers  Raymond Chandler, F. Scott Fitzgerald,
Nathanael West, Joan Didion, among them  have pondered the meaning and myth of
Los Angeles. While its impossible to name all the great books about L.A., here
are two that offer a sense of why Americas second largest city is what it is and
why we remain fascinated.

1 L.A. Noir: The Struggle for the Soul of Americas Most Seductive City, by John
Buntin (Broadway Books, 2010):

Long before Los Angeles embraced its role as one of Americas great melting pots,
its leaders shamefully sold the city as the white spot of America, a land of
sunshine, orange groves, movie stars and wholesome (i.e., white) Midwestern
values. But the film and oil industries explosion in the early 20th century also
transformed L.A. into a Wild West boomtown, teeming with crime, vice and
corruption. This nonfiction book contrasts the two men who represented the
battle for the citys soul by the mid-20th century: Straight arrow police chief
William H. Parker and notorious gangster Mickey Cohen.

2 Mildred Pierce by James M. Cain (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard, reissue edition
1989):

People may be most familiar with this title from the classic 1945 Warner Bros.
melodrama starring Joan Crawford in her most iconic role. They may also know
Cain as the author of hard-boiled L.A.-based crime masterpieces Double Indemnity
and The Postman Always Rings Twice. In this novel, Cain focuses on an
entrepreneurial-minded housewife who is determined to maintain her familys
standard of living during the Great Depression. By bringing us into Mildreds
suburban Glendale world, as her spoiled daughter Veda aspires to a Pasadena
mansion, Cain offers a vivid portrait of L.A. class distinctions and American
ideas of success that persist today.

Los Angeles: Is it really Americas capital of the 21st century?

Los Angeles: 5 great places to see art

Los Angeles: 4 great beaches

Los Angeles: 3 creative ramen restaurants

Los Angeles: The truly essential Hollywood tour

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Man found dead after shootout at mansion

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

ABSTRACT

SWAT officers have fired tear gas into a sprawling Los Angeles home where a man
is holed up after firing several rounds at the woman who lives there following
an argument. Police Captain Brian Wendling says the woman managed to escape
unharmed when the man arrived at the 9,000-square-foot (836-square-meter) house
early Thursday and eventually began shooting. Wendling says the incident began
as a fight between the man and woman, who are in an on-again-off-again
relationship. Police say the suspect, who's in his 50s, is believed to have been
drinking. Officials say it's been difficult to locate him because the house in
the Pacific Palisades area is so large.

FULL TEXT

A manalleged to have fired shots at a woman on Wednesday night and then
barricaded himself inside a Pacific Palisades mansion was found deadon Thursday
after a shootout with police, who had tried to force him out with tear gas,
authorities said.

"We don't know if it's going to be an apparent self-inflicted wound or an
officer-involved shooting," said Los Angeles Police Department Lt. Chris
Ramirez, outside the property in the 1600 block of Altura Mura Road on Thursday.

LAPD officers first responded late Wednesday night to an assault with a deadly
weapon call at the mansion, said LAPD spokesman Josh Rubenstein.

Once they realized the man wasn't coming out, officers created a perimeter,
Rubenstein said, and called in the SWAT team, which tried to negotiate with the
man, but he fired on the officers, who returned it with their own shots.

"None of our officers were injured," Rubenstein said, adding that several rounds
of tear gas were deployed after the shots were fired.

LAPD Officer Liliana Preciado said the shooting occurred at 5 a.m.

And LAPD last spoke to the man at 6 a.m., police said. The man was found dead
before 11 a.m.

On Thursday morning, Police Capt. Brian Wendlingsaid the violence began as a
fight between the man and woman, who were in an on-again-off-again relationship.

Ramirez did not know who owned the 9,000-square-foot house or any more details
about the relationship between the two.

Details on the man were unclear.

Previously, police had said the suspect was in his 50s and was believed to have
been drinking, but Ramirez said he did not know the man's age or if he had
"mental issues, was intoxicated or on some kind of drugs."

Authorities evacuated homes near the mansion, Ramirez said. It was unclear how
many. Some people took shelter inside of their homes and did not leave, Ramirez
said.

Outside of the residence, yellow police tape and orange cones were placed on
Alta Mura Road to block off traffic from entering the curving road, and
reporters at the scene could not see the home.

Mariann Lord lives two houses away from the mansion and described what happened
as "scary," because neighbors could not figure out what was happening Wednesday
night after the initial gunfire.

"We thought the tear gas were shots ... so we thought shots were being fired all
night long until my husband got the nerve to talk to police in the morning,"
Lord said. "I was fortunate that I just went back to sleep.

"I just don't want to bring too much attention to the neighborhood. We're just a
sleepy, quiet, happy neighborhood."

City News Service and the Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           October 11, 2017 Wednesday

Leaders seek to lesson penalty for street vendor sales in parks

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words

ABSTRACT

While the act of selling hotdogs, fruits and other products on Los Angeles
sidewalks is no longer a crime, vendors could still be cited with a misdemeanor
if they are operating in public parks.

FULL TEXT

While the act of selling hotdogs, fruits and other products on Los Angeles
sidewalks is no longer a crime, vendors could still be cited with a misdemeanor
if they are operating in public parks.

Activists said this means that despite the city's efforts, many vendors who are
in the country illegally could still be slapped with a criminal offense that
could be used as a reason for federal immigration officials to deport them.

Citing those concerns, three Los Angeles City Council members began the process
this week toward reducing penalties for vending in public parks, beaches and
recreation areas from a misdemeanor to an administrative violation.

In a motion introduced Tuesday, City Council members Mitch O'Farrell and Jose
Huizar cited the "polarizing" crackdown on undocumented immigrants by the
"current (White House) administration." The motion was seconded by Councilman
Bob Blumenfield, who represents the west San Fernando Valley.

In recent days, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency threatened to
expanded its arrests, including of undocumented bystanders who were not
initially targeted, after Gov. Jerry Brown's signing of a bill to make
California a "sanctuary state."

President Donald Trump has also said he is ending a program, known as DACA, in
which federal officials refrain from enforcing immigration laws against people
who were brought to the country illegally as children. That program has allowed
many, mostly younger immigrants, to stay in the country without being deported,
and to be issued permits to work.

The council members' motion Tuesday aims to remove misdemeanor penalties from
Section 63.44 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, which still treats vending at
public parks, beaches and other recreation areas as a crime. Crimes tied to
street vending is considered an offense that could trigger deportation
proceedings.

The prohibition on park vending was reinstated in 2015, after it was suspended
for several years, and not only disallows vendors, but also people services such
as yoga or dog training classes at parks.

Street vending is still illegal everywhere in Los Angeles, but the punishment
for those selling food and wares on sidewalks has been limited to financial
penalties.

While the City Council continues to try to develop a permitting program that
would legalize street vending, city leaders have moved more quickly to
decriminalize the activity, removing misdemeanor penalties from the sidewalk
vending ban in February.

That was done "in order to keep our mostly immigrant vendors out of the
overreaching aggressive arms of our federal government looking to target
otherwise law-abiding immigrants for deportation," Huizar said in a statement.

Now the council members are calling for a similar step to be taken with the park
vending, as the city continues to enforce its prohibition on the activity.

Huizar said that the federal government's increased crackdown on immigrants
"does underscore the need for a street vending ordinance," one that he and
fellow councilman Curren Price initially called for in 2013.

While he did not say when the city would be ready with its promised citywide
vendor permitting program, Huizar acknowledged that "the time is well past due
to bring these vendors out of the shadows and allow them to make an honest
living in a safe and regulated city program and join other big cities throughout
the nation who already have a legal street vending program in place."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday

LA street gang 'shot caller' sentenced to 15 years

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 155 words

ABSTRACT

A leader of a notorious Los Angeles street gang has been sentenced to 15 years
in prison after pleading guilty to federal racketeering and drug trafficking
charges

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A leader of a notorious Los Angeles street gang has been
sentenced to 15 years in prison after pleading guilty to federal racketeering
and drug trafficking charges.

In a letter to the judge, Victor Barrios, a Mexican national, apologized for his
crimes and said he hopes to someday be an anti-gang advocate. The 43-year-old
said drug addiction is part of the reason he became a member of the Hazard
street gang, which officials say is controlled by the Mexican Mafia.

Barrios was sentenced Monday.

Federal prosecutors say he was a "shot caller" for the gang and that he admitted
being involved in drug deals and acts of intimidation and violence.

Barrios was one of 27 defendants named in a racketeering indictment unsealed in
December 2014.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

Juveniles blamed for fire where skull found

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 460 words

ABSTRACT

No additional body parts were found Monday after a human skull was found down a
steep ravine Saturday in Sherman Oaks, authorities said. Ed Winter of the Los
Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner said his organization sent
its special operations response team Monday morning but did not recover
anything.

FULL TEXT

Juveniles playing with matches sparked a brush fire that led to the discovery of
a human skull down a ravine in Sherman Oaks, authorities said Monday.

Los Angeles Fire Department spokeswoman Margaret Stewart said the juveniles were
not arrested and were placed instead in the Stop Adolescent Firesetting with
Education program sometime over the weekend after their involvement became
known.

"Studies show that there's an age range that typically juvenile fire setters
fall within," Stewart said. "This program targets - through education - to
modify those behaviors."

Stewart said she did not know how many juveniles were involved,

what their ages are or exactly when they were placed in the program.

LAFD firefighters responded to a small fire at 3:43 p.m. Saturday to the 3500
block of North Coy Drive that expanded to 3 or 4 acres in medium to heavy brush,
fire officials said.

The Los Angeles Police Department is handling the investigation of the human
remains, Stewart said.

Ed Winter of the Los Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner said
his agency sent its special operations response team early Monday to the fire
location to search for additional remains but came up empty.

Winter added the skull had not been examined to determine its gender and that
this process would take a couple of days.

Officer Aareon Jefferson, an LAPD spokesman, said the agency is waiting on the
coroner's report before diving into questions such as whether the person was
killed before the fire started.

"The coroner has to determine what is the cause of death," Jefferson said,
adding that their report will later be sent to detectives for follow-up.

LAPD Officer Liliana Preciado added the coroner will also identify the person.

Meanwhile, neighbors in the 3500 block of North Coy Drive said they were
disturbed a skull was found in their neighborhood.

"It's kind of shocking actually," said Sherman Oaks resident Michael Brown, 59,
as he stood outside of his lifelong home. "Now we're getting to the point where
we want to know who this person is and their story."

Brown described the neighborhood as a "cliche" of being a quiet little block. He
added that he and his wife were driving up a back road Saturday when she spotted
a fire in the gully.

"I was like, 'It was probably someone just barbecuing because it's a nice day,'
" said Brown. "We've never had a fire up here."

Staff writer Brenda Gazzar contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday

LeBron James' L.A. home vandalized

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 450 words

ABSTRACT

LeBron James says a racial slur spray painted on the front gate of his home in
Los Angeles "just goes to show that racism will always be a part of the world."


FULL TEXT

OAKLAND >> LeBron James wanted to be with his family, to hug his wife and three
kids back in Ohio.

Visibly shaken by an event he couldn't control, Cleveland's star struggled
Wednesday to focus on his seventh straight NBA Finals or the Golden State
Warriors.

For the game's best player, basketball was overshadowed by racism.

On the eve of the Cavaliers and Warriors meeting for the third straight year,
police said James' mansion in Los Angeles was vandalized in the morning with a
racial slur spray painted onto the front gate.

Nearly a year since he sat at the same podium inside Oracle Arena and addressed
Muhammad Ali's impact as an activist following the heavyweight champion's death,
James discussed the daily challenges of being black in the U.S.

"No matter how much money you have, no matter how famous you are, no matter how
many people admire you, being black in America is tough," James said. "We have a
long way to go for us as a society and for us as African-Americans until we feel
equal in America. But my family is safe, and that's what's important."

According to police, an unidentified person spray painted the N-word on the
front gate of James' $20 million home in the Brentwood neighborhood Wednesday
morning. Capt. Patricia Sandoval, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles Police
Department, said neither James nor his family was in their secondary home.

The property manager told officers that it is believed the incident was captured
on surveillance video, Sandoval said. Police are investigating it as an act of
vandalism and a possible hate crime. Someone painted over the slur before
officers arrived to investigate, Sandoval said.

James bought the house in 2015, not long after his production company signed a
$15 million developmental deal with Warner Bros., an agreement that has him
spending more time in Southern California. James was in Los Angeles most of last
summer working with his production company.

The 9,440-square-foot home is not James' primary residence. He lives in Bath,
Ohio.

As he and the Cavaliers got ready to face the Warriors in Game 1 tonight, James
was handling a topic normally discussed in other forums.

"As I sit here on the eve of one of the greatest sporting events that we have in
sports, you know, race and what's going on comes again, and on my behalf and my
family's behalf. But I mean I look at it as, if this is to shed a light and
continuing to keep the conversation going... then I'm OK with it.... You know
hate in America, especially for African-Americans, is living every day."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday

Longtime Fugitive Enters Plea in Federal Hates Crimes Case Alleging Racially
Motivated Murders of African Americans

LENGTH: 866  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Central District of
California has issued the following news release:



  A member of the Avenues street gang who was on the run for well over a decade
pleaded not guilty this morning to federal hate crimes charges stemming from the
racially motivated murders of two African-American men in Highland Park.





           Merced Cambero Jr., 38, whose street name was "Shadow," entered not
guilty pleas before United States District Judge Percy Anderson, who scheduled a
trial on March 28.



           Cambero was repatriated to the United States and turned over to the
custody of special agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
detectives with the Los Angeles Police Department on February 3 at the San
Ysidro Port of Entry after he was deported by Mexican immigration authorities.
In the weeks leading up to his deportation, Cambero had been detained in Baja
California by Mexican law enforcement officers on an unrelated matter and was
found to be using a false identification. Further investigation by Mexican
authorities and members of the San Diego Police Department verified Cambero's
true identity and the outstanding federal civil rights charges in Los Angeles.
At his initial court appearance later that day in United States District Court
in Los Angeles, Cambero was ordered held in custody without bond.



           Cambero faces three felony counts, including conspiring to violate
the civil rights of African Americans who resided in Highland Park. Among the
victims of the plot was Kenneth Kurry Wilson, a 38-year-old African-American man
who was fatally shot in Highland Park on April 18, 1999. Members of the
conspiracy also murdered Christopher Bowser, an African-American man who was
shot while waiting at a bus stop in Highland Park on Dec. 11, 2000.



           The conspiracy charge specially alleges that Cambero:



     participated in a 1997 attack on African-American men who were playing
basketball in a park;

     was among several gang members who ambushed an African-American man in 1998
and struck him in the head with a metal object;

     attacked an African-American man in a park in 1999;

     directed racial slurs at an African-American girl in a supermarket and an
African-American man walking down a street in 1999; and

     was one of two triggermen in the murder of Kenneth Wilson.



           The indictment also charges Cambero with violating Wilson's civil
rights by murdering him because he was African American and because he was using
the public streets of Los Angeles. The third count of the indictment charges
Camero with using a firearm during the commission of the federal conspiracy and
hate crime charges.



           Cambero was among five Avenues members who were indicted in 2004 in
the first case in the nation to allege civil rights crimes against members of a
street gang. The other four defendants were convicted at trial, and each was
sentenced in 2006 and 2007 to life-without-parole in federal prison.



           "The victims in this case were targeted simply because of their skin
color and because members of the gang wanted to rid their neighborhood of
African Americans," said United States Attorney Eileen M. Decker. "The heinous
conduct with which this defendant is charged has no place in this nation, and
the Department of Justice will stand steadfastly against hate crimes like those
charged. Despite this defendant's efforts to avoid prosecution over the course
of many years, his appearance in court today demonstrates that law enforcement
and my office will be tenacious in pursuing justice against such criminal
conduct."



           "The apprehension of Mr. Cambero is the latest example of success
among agencies cooperating internationally," said Deirdre Fike, the Assistant
Director in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "In addition, this
arrest proves that leaving the country and evading capture for 15 years will not
deter law enforcement in finding justice for victims of crime; in Mr. Cambero's
case, civil rights violations involving the alleged murder of an innocent man
based on the color of his skin."



           An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a
crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty
in court.



           If he is convicted of the charges in the indictment, Cambero would
face a potential sentence of life without parole in federal prison.



           The arrest of Cambero is a result of a collaborative effort by
Mexican law enforcement and immigration authorities; the San Diego Police
Department; the FBI's Los Angeles and San Diego Field Offices; and the FBI's
Legal Attaché in Mexico City. The investigation that led to the civil rights
charges against Cambero was conducted by the FBI in Los Angeles and the Los
Angeles Police Department.



           This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys
Daniel J. O'Brien of the Public Corruption and Civil Rights Section and Jennifer
Chou of the Violent and Organized Crime Section.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                              June 9, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

BUSINESS BEAT;
Bakersfield a hot spot for car thefts

BYLINE: Makeda Easter

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words


Heads up, Bakersfield residents -- you may want to double-check that your car
doors are locked.

With more than 7,000 car thefts in 2016, the metropolitan area had the highest
rate of vehicle thefts in California, according to a National Insurance Crime
Bureau report released Thursday. Bakersfield ranked third in the nation after
Albuquerque, which took the No. 1 spot, and Pueblo, Colo.

The annual Hot Spots report analyzes vehicle theft data from the National Crime
Information Center for each of the nation's densely populated areas.

The ranking takes population into account, which is why an area such as
Billings, Mont., with 877 thefts, can place much higher than Los Angeles, which
had 60,670 thefts.

Other California metro areas in the top 10 include Modesto, Riverside-San
Bernardino-Ontario, Merced, San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward and Fresno.

While preliminary data show that 2016 car thefts across the nation were up 6.6%
from 707,758 thefts in 2015, the number has drastically decreased from 1991,
when there were a record 1.7 million thefts.

What's the best way to prevent car theft, according to the report? Common sense.
The insurance bureau found that from 2013 to 2015, more than 140,000 vehicles
were stolen with the keys left inside.

The areas with the highest vehicle theft rates in 2016 were: Albuquerque;
Pueblo, Colo.; Bakersfield; Modesto; Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario;
Anchorage; Merced, Calif.; San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward; Fresno; and Billings,
Mont.

--

makeda.easter@latimes.com

Twitter: @makedaeaster

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

LeBron James' house spray-painted with a racial slur, police say

BYLINE: The Washington Post

LENGTH: 214 words



HIGHLIGHT: TMZ reported Wednesday that a home owned by NBA star LeBron James in
Los Angeles was vandalized when someone spray-painted the n-word on his front
gate.


var _informq = _informq || []; _informq.push(["embed"]); By Matt Bonesteel, (c)
2017, The Washington Post

TMZ reported Wednesday that a home owned by NBA star LeBron James in Los Angeles
was vandalized when someone spray-painted the n-word on his front gate.

Los Angeles Police Department detectives are investigating the incident as a
possible hate crime and are examining security-camera footage from nearby homes
in an attempt to identify the perpetrator.

The graffiti was covered up by the house's property management company, USA
Today reported, after it was discovered around 6:45 a.m. local time Wednesday
morning. James was not living at the residence at the time of the vandalism, an
LAPD spokeswoman told The Associated Press, as he's preparing for the Cleveland
Cavaliers' NBA Finals series against the Golden State Warriors.

According to publicly available records, James purchased the home in Los
Angeles's tony Brentwood neighborhood for just less than $21 million in 2015.

California has a fairly severe punishment for vandalism if it reaches a certain
amount of damage, Sports Illustrated law expert Michael McCann reports: "If
suspects who vandalized LeBron's home are caught & damage is at least $400, they
can be prosecuted for felonies (up to 3 yrs in prison)," he tweeted.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                              July 14, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Protesters demand L.A. sheriff support 'sanctuary state' bill

BYLINE: Leila Miller

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words


Dozens of protesters gathered in front of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department's East L.A. station Thursday evening to demand that the sheriff
support the so-called sanctuary state bill, which would block local and state
law enforcement from using resources to help federal immigration agents.

About 40 activists chanted in Spanish and English, some holding up signs that
read "Sanctuary Now!," while a handful of vocal demonstrators sat, arms linked,
on the floor of the station's lobby.

Among those outside was David Abud, who immigrated to the U.S. from Mexico when
he was 10 years old.

"Sanctuary policies make our city safer; they make our community safer," he
said.

The protest was organized by the Democratic Socialists of America, along with
local immigration groups.

Senate Bill 54, commonly called the sanctuary state bill, was introduced by
state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon (D-Los Angeles) in December in
response to the Trump administration's broadened deportation orders. It would
limit the information that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
receive about county jail inmates and forbid local law enforcement agencies from
sharing databases with immigration officials or providing information about
immigrants' release dates, with the exception of inmates who have committed
violent crimes.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell, who heads the largest jail system in
the country, has said that the bill would hinder law enforcement's ability to
transfer inmates from county jails to immigration officials. In a March 9 letter
to De Leon, McDonnell said the bill could hurt immigrant communities by forcing
immigration agents to go into communities to arrest people instead of going
through the jail system.

"While doing this, they will most surely cast a wide net over our communities,
apprehending and detaining those not originally the target of the enforcement
actions," he wrote.

An order adopted in 1979 prohibits Los Angeles Police Department officials from
approaching people to ask about their immigration status. While sheriff's
deputies follow a similar protocol, the Sheriff's Department can still share
with immigration officials the names of inmates in custody, as well as people
who are due to be released soon. This allows immigration officials to decide
whom to pick up from jails.

In 2016, Los Angeles County jail officials turned over about 1,000 inmates to
immigration agents, a small percentage of the more than 300,000 inmates released
from county jails that year.

SB 54 also would bar hold requests, through which immigration officials can ask
that inmates be detained for 48 hours beyond their release dates.

It has gone through various amendments in recent months, including a provision
that would require the state parole board or corrections department to supply
ICE with 60 days' notice of the release of inmates in the U.S. illegally who
were convicted of violent crimes.

The bill has been opposed by the California State Sheriff's Assn. as well as
lawmakers who say it could protect violent criminals.

Bill Brown, president of the sheriff's association, said SB 54 would hinder
cooperation between immigration officials and law enforcement.

"The bill provides sanctuary for criminals, and it endangers the public," he
said. "It would extremely limit or in many cases prohibit our ability to
communicate with the federal government in response to their request for
information when someone is released from our jail."

In a January letter to Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), chairwoman of the Senate
Committee on Public Safety, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti expressed his
support for SB 54.

"Immigrant members of our community have rights, and they must be able to engage
with law enforcement without fear when they are victims of and witnesses to
crimes, seeking basic and other health services, or attending school," Garcetti
wrote.

Cristina Felipe, who drove to the protest from her home in Pasadena, said her
son was deported to Guatemala about six years ago after being arrested for
drinking in her front yard.

"I don't want what happened to my son to happen to anyone else," she said.

--

leila.miller@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEMONSTRATORS PROTEST in front of the East Los Angeles sheriff's
station Thursday evening to call on Sheriff Jim McDonnell to support Senate Bill
54, which would block local and state law enforcement from using resources to
assist federal immigration agents.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Genaro Molina Los Angeles
Times PHOTO: PROTESTERS SIT, arms linked, on the floor of the station's lobby,
calling for an end to deportations.  PHOTOGRAPHER: Genaro Molina Los Angeles
Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Longtime Fugitive Enters Plea in Federal Hates Crimes Case Alleging
Racially Motivated Murders of African Americans

LENGTH: 854  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US Department of Justice has issued the following news release:



 A member of the Avenues street gang who was on the run for well over a decade
pleaded not guilty this morning to federal hate crimes charges stemming from the
racially motivated murders of two African-American men in Highland Park.



           Merced Cambero Jr., 38, whose street name was "Shadow," entered not
guilty pleas before United States District Judge Percy Anderson, who scheduled a
trial on March 28.

           Cambero was repatriated to the United States and turned over to the
custody of special agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
detectives with the Los Angeles Police Department on February 3 at the San
Ysidro Port of Entry after he was deported by Mexican immigration authorities.
In the weeks leading up to his deportation, Cambero had been detained in Baja
California by Mexican law enforcement officers on an unrelated matter and was
found to be using a false identification. Further investigation by Mexican
authorities and members of the San Diego Police Department verified Cambero's
true identity and the outstanding federal civil rights charges in Los Angeles.
At his initial court appearance later that day in United States District Court
in Los Angeles, Cambero was ordered held in custody without bond.

           Cambero faces three felony counts, including conspiring to violate
the civil rights of African Americans who resided in Highland Park. Among the
victims of the plot was Kenneth Kurry Wilson, a 38-year-old African-American man
who was fatally shot in Highland Park on April 18, 1999. Members of the
conspiracy also murdered Christopher Bowser, an African-American man who was
shot while waiting at a bus stop in Highland Park on Dec. 11, 2000.

           The conspiracy charge specially alleges that Cambero:


  participated in a 1997 attack on African-American men who were playing
basketball in a park;

  was among several gang members who ambushed an African-American man in 1998
and struck him in the head with a metal object;

  attacked an African-American man in a park in 1999;

  directed racial slurs at an African-American girl in a supermarket and an
African-American man walking down a street in 1999; and

  was one of two triggermen in the murder of Kenneth Wilson.


           The indictment also charges Cambero with violating Wilson's civil
rights by murdering him because he was African American and because he was using
the public streets of Los Angeles. The third count of the indictment charges
Camero with using a firearm during the commission of the federal conspiracy and
hate crime charges.

           Cambero was among five Avenues members who were indicted in 2004 in
the first case in the nation to allege civil rights crimes against members of a
street gang. The other four defendants were convicted at trial, and each was
sentenced in 2006 and 2007 to life-without-parole in federal prison.

           "The victims in this case were targeted simply because of their skin
color and because members of the gang wanted to rid their neighborhood of
African Americans," said United States Attorney Eileen M. Decker. "The heinous
conduct with which this defendant is charged has no place in this nation, and
the Department of Justice will stand steadfastly against hate crimes like those
charged. Despite this defendant's efforts to avoid prosecution over the course
of many years, his appearance in court today demonstrates that law enforcement
and my office will be tenacious in pursuing justice against such criminal
conduct."

           "The apprehension of Mr. Cambero is the latest example of success
among agencies cooperating internationally," said Deirdre Fike, the Assistant
Director in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "In addition, this
arrest proves that leaving the country and evading capture for 15 years will not
deter law enforcement in finding justice for victims of crime; in Mr. Cambero's
case, civil rights violations involving the alleged murder of an innocent man
based on the color of his skin."

           An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a
crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty
in court.

           If he is convicted of the charges in the indictment, Cambero would
face a potential sentence of life without parole in federal prison.

           The arrest of Cambero is a result of a collaborative effort by
Mexican law enforcement and immigration authorities; the San Diego Police
Department; the FBI's Los Angeles and San Diego Field Offices; and the FBI's
Legal Attaché in Mexico City. The investigation that led to the civil rights
charges against Cambero was conducted by the FBI in Los Angeles and the Los
Angeles Police Department.

           This case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorneys
Daniel J. O'Brien of the Public Corruption and Civil Rights Section and Jennifer
Chou of the Violent and Organized Crime Section.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

SWEEP OF BRUTAL STREET GANG NETS 21 ARRESTS ACROSS LOS ANGELES Possible human
trafficking victims found in locked room amid raid

BYLINE: Alicia Caldwell Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 005

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES - Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement fanned out across
Los Angeles in pre-dawn sweeps, serving arrest and search warrants as part of a
three-year investigation into the ultra-violent street gang MS-13.

Federal prosecutors unsealed an indictment Wednesday morning charging dozens of
members and leaders of the brutal street gang with a variety of crimes,
including murder.

Acting U.S. Attorney Sandra Brown said the 127-page anti-racketeering indictment
targets 44 members and associates of the gang, including the one-time leader of
a Los Angeles faction of MS-13. Three people accused of murder could face the
death penalty, she said.

Twenty-one people named in the indictment were arrested in pre-dawn raids across
Los Angeles and Brown said warrants were served at more than 50 locations. Jail
officials around the region also conducted cell searches, as some of those
indicted were already in custody on unrelated charges. About a dozen of those
arrested were so-called "shot callers" for the gang. At least three people were
still at large Wednesday.

"It's one of the largest and most entrenched gangs in Los Angeles," Brown said.
"Today's actions will deal a critical blow to the top leadership."

Brown said MS-13 is responsible for murders of rival gang members, drug and
human trafficking, prostitution and illegal alcohol sales, among other crimes.
She described the racketeering case as one of the largest single cases targeting
MS-13, a gang that started in Los Angeles but has expanded to nearly every state
and El Salvador. The gang is blamed for horrific violence that has sent
Salvadoran immigrants fleeing that country for the United States.

Because of the group's propensity for violence, federal and local agencies used
tactical and SWAT teams to serve some of the warrants, including at a storefront
along a strip of dilapidated buildings near downtown that the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said was being used as a "casita," or sort of
club house, for one group of gang members.

Just before 4 a.m., heavily armed ATF agents raided the building and found at
least seven people locked in a room. FBI Assistant Director in Charge Deirdre
Fike said investigators are trying to determine if those people are human
trafficking victims.

There are currently about 800 known MS-13 members in the city.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              156 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 22, 2017 Wednesday

West Valley gang-linked crime rises since 2014;
Report says area has 16 'active street gangs'

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 738 words

ABSTRACT

A new police report talks about gangs in the West Valley.

FULL TEXT

Violent gang-related crimes in the west San Fernando Valley increased 63 percent
from 2014 to 2015 but held steady last year, according to a new analysis by the
Los Angeles Police Department.

Gang-related homicides in the West Valley, which includes the LAPD's Devonshire,
Topanga and West Valley divisions, more than doubled from three in 2014 to eight
in 2016, according to thereport. The Topanga Division saw the sharpest increase,
with five gang-related homicides in 2016, up from zero in 2014.

There was also a total of 848 gang-related crimes reported in the west San
Fernando Valley in 2016, up 33 percent from 2014.

"It's validating and providing evidence on what we suspected. We have some
serious gang activity in the West Valley," Los Angeles City Councilman Bob Blu

menfield, who represents the area and requested the written report, said
Tuesday. "It's important to document it, so we can get appropriate resources in
terms of (crime) suppression and intervention."

Part of the spike could be attributed to the San Fernando Valley experiencing
one of its lowest periods in violent crime from about 2012 to 2014, following
years of steady declines starting in about 2000, said Lt. Brian Morrison, gang
coordinator of LAPD's Operations-Valley Bureau.

Any time there's an increase in victims or crime, "it's a cause for concern,"
Morrison said. But he noted that gangs go through cycles that are driven by
various factors.

"It could be motivated by money, narcotics sales, other criminal enterprise," he
said. "It could be a prolific member of a gang who has been locked up and is
released, starts recruiting again."

There are some 16 "active street gangs" that claim territory west of the 405
Freeway in LAPD's jurisdiction of the Valley, including one currently under gang
injunction in the Canoga Park area, according to the report.

But just because an incident is classified as a gang-related homicide, doesn't
mean a gang member committed the crime or that it was committed because of
someone's gang affiliation. For example, these homicides include those in which
only the victim is a gang member. They also include homicides committed by gang
members for reasons that have nothing to do with their gang, Morrison said.

"We code it that way because there's a higher likelihood that they have a
propensity for violence," Morrison said.

Among the gang-related homicides in the West Valley last year was a "domestic
violence love triangle" that left two dead in Canoga Park, a fatal house party
shooting where a suspected gang member was targeted in Granada Hills, and a
shooting at a Canoga Park strip club that left two armed gang members, who may
have been trying to rob the place, dead, Morrison said.

While gang-related homicides are up in the West Valley, there's been a decrease
in gang-related slayings in the entire Valley from 31 in 2015 to 25 last year,
or about 19 percent, said Lt. Mike Kozak of Operations-Valley Bureau Homicide.

The West Valley also saw 15 gang-related victims shot in 2016, down from 18 the
previous year but up from 12 in 2014, according to the report. Morrison said he
believes that number is "most telling."

"Our officers are stemming the tide and trying to get a hold of what may be
going on," Morrison told the Los Angeles Police Commission on Tuesday.

The city of Los Angeles currently has one Gang Reduction and Youth Development
zone, which provides prevention and intervention resources to at-risk
communities and youth, in the west Valley. The Mayor's Office of Gang Reduction
and Youth Development is also developing a juvenile re-entry program in the area
to help juvenile offenders transition from county juvenile probation camps back
into society, according to the report.

Blumenfield said he's hopeful that the data in the report will help the West
Valley get a larger share of funding for these types of programs.

"Having this information from the original source ... is helpful to me and
others as we push to try to steer resources to the West Valley," he said.

The councilman is holding a "public safety town hall" at 7 p.m. on April 4 at
Taft High School in Woodland Hills. Bob Green, former LAPD deputy chief of the
Valley, and John A. Sherman, current deputy chief of the Valley, will be
featured speakers during the town hall conversation focusing on crime and crime
prevention in the West Valley, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Ex-LAUSD director accused of misuse of funds

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 339 words

ABSTRACT

The former director of food services for the Los Angeles Unified School District
has been charged with misappropriation of public funds and embezzlement for
allegedly diverting $65,000 in district money to a culinary club he controlled,
prosecutors said Tuesday.

FULL TEXT

The former director of food services for the Los Angeles Unified School District
has been charged with misappropriation of public funds and embezzlement for
allegedly diverting $65,000 in district money to a culinary club he controlled,
prosecutors said Tuesday.

David Binkle, 55, is also accused of forging a district vendor application,
failing to report his outside financial interests to the district and funneling
public funds into his personal bank account, the Los Angeles County District
Attorney's office said in a statement.

All told, he's accused of 15 felony counts.

Binkle resigned from the LAUSD in 2015 following a critical audit of the food
services program.

The audit said the $341-million-a-year program under his direction had problems
dating back to the district's 2011 decision to let food services forgo standard
contracting practices with the expectation that administrative costs would be
lowered.

Expensive hotel stays and millions of dollars in waste were also uncovered by
the audit, which was released by the district's inspector general.

The ex-director was, as this paper reported in 2015, a champion of healthy
eating, even appearing at the White House alongside then-first lady Michelle
Obama and starring in TEDx Talks.

Prosecutors say between 2010 and 2014, he allegedly diverted the money to the
culinary club, for which he was president.

If convicted, he faces 13 years and eight months in state prison, according to
the D.A.'s office. Prosecutors have said an arrest warrant was filed on Aug. 2.
He was released on $220,000 bail.

When reached by phone on Tuesday, Binkle's attorney, Alec Rose, declined to
elaborate on the case.

On Tuesday, calls to several phone numbers listed for Binkle were either
disconnected or not returned.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 9, 2017 Thursday

Beck: Allegations of manipulated crime statistics 'damn lies'

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com, @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 979 words

ABSTRACT

Capt. Lillian Carranza, a 28-year LAPD veteran, has filed a claim against the
city arguing that department command staffers have been intentionally
under-reporting crime statistics since at least 2014.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck has rebutted a captain's allegations that
command staff intentionally underreported violent crimes, arguing they were
"outrageous" and "damn lies."

Capt. Lillian Carranza of the LAPD's Van Nuys Division has filed a claim against
the city arguing that department command staffers have been intentionally
underreporting crime statistics since at least 2014 and that some offenders have
been promoted to higher ranks in the department.

"These claims are a slap in the face to the many detectives and command officers
who work so hard with a very difficult system to get crime statistics as close
to accurate as we possibly can," Beck said at a news conference in front of
LAPD's Operations Valley

Bureau on Tuesday.

The city, he said, is nationally recognized for its efforts to comply with the
"outdated uniform crime reporting standards" developed by the FBI decades ago.

He noted he has 15 detectives assigned to do audits of the statistics to "make
sure we do the right thing."

Beck said both the department and the Office of Inspector General, which works
for the civilian Police Commission that oversees the department, "have looked
into similar claims as this over the last several years and found no
wrongdoing."

Beck said he is not retaliating against Carranza and would not allow anyone else
to do so.

Carranza recently filed a government claim against the city, which includes the
allegation that she has been denied a promotion to commander following her
complaints. Her attorney said he expects to file a lawsuit on her behalf in the
coming days.

While Carranza said she has supporting documentation to back up her claims, she
and her attorney have declined to release it so far, saying these documents
could be considered confidential by the department.

In response to Beck's comments, the Los Angeles Police Protective League, the
union that represents some 9,800 officers through the rank of lieutenant, noted
that prior offenses in the state's criminal justice system are considered
strikes and said Beck has accumulated strikes of his own.

"Chief Beck has accumulated two strikes by overseeing the manipulation of
violent crime statistics and this latest allegation, if proven true, would make
the Chief a three-striker," union officials said in a statement.

"It's time for transparency and honesty to be the foundation of our department,
not cooking the books to fool our elected officials and the public," they added.

Meanwhile, the head of the civilian panel that oversees the Police Department
has requested an update from its independent watchdog after the captain's
allegations.

Steve Soboroff, president of the Los Angeles Police Commission, said he has
asked the inspector general to update him regarding the "perception" of Carranza
concerning the alleged underreporting of violent crimes.

"Our goal is not to underreport or overreport anything," Soboroff, one of five
civilian commissioners, said Tuesday in a phone interview. "We want to do
everything exactly right, and we make adjustments, and we have processes like
the inspector general, like the department, when individuals might think that
something is wrong."

Carranza wrote a letter to the Office of the Inspector General in September 2016
saying she was contacting him "as a last resort."

"The manipulation of statistics has always been a concern, but blatantly
ignoring the underreporting of violent crime has reached epidemic proportions,"
she wrote in the email provided by her attorney.

Carranza, who said she conducted her own audits of statistics reported at
several stations, noted that she repeatedly brought the issue to the attention
of the director of operations and, most recently, the department's data
integrity unit without result.

Soboroff noted that he was not cc'd on that email and did not know whether the
Office of the Inspector General responded.

In Carranza's claim, she argued that the LAPD was underreporting violent crime
at certain stations by about 10 percent but has so far declined to release her
analysis.

Following a Los Angeles Times investigation, a 2015 audit by the OIG found that
a "significant number" of crimes that were categorized as simple assaults from
2008-2014 were actually aggravated assaults and should have been included as
part of the violent crime statistics that are submitted to the FBI and disclosed
to the public.

The inspector general found that if the crimes had been classified correctly
during those seven years, the rate of aggravated assaults reported to the FBI
and the public would have been an average of 36 percent higher each year.

The OIG determined that the errors were due to "a combination of systemic
issues, procedural deficiencies, department-wide misconceptions about what
constitutes an aggravated assault, and in a small number of cases, individual
officer error."

In July of last year, Beck updated the civilian commissioners on the efforts of
the data integrity unit. The unit was established in October 2014 to ensure
accurate reporting of crime data and the department's adherence to the standards
of the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting program.

In his written report, Beck said the unit had updated all of the various
training materials and guides as needed and conducts two to three training
sessions every 28 days regarding the FBI standards. The unit also conducts
inspections of the data.

"There has been detailed work and a report done by the inspector general and a
follow-up report by the chief of police," Soboroff said. "The department has its
own auditors, and we have the inspector general. All have been working on this
and other issues. We have a lot of faith in them."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                  Steve Levine

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
URL: www.levine-criminal-law.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   The Los Angeles criminal defense Law Firm of Steve Levine represents those
who have been accused of a crime in Los Angeles.Ïâ Steve Levine has over 2
decades of courtroom experience both in civil and criminal matters, from
misdemeanors to felonies, specializing in the most serious of crimes.  Call his
Los Angeles, California law office (310) 497-1974 to schedule a Free
Consultation.Ïâ Steve Levine is a well-respected criminal defense lawyer and
defends clients in DUI crimes, misdemeanors, felonies, sex crimes and many
others.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              160 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           September 9, 2017 Saturday

Former teacher gets year in jail;
Ex-Mary Star substitute sent nude photos of himself online to girls

BYLINE: Larry Altman; laltman@scng.com @larryaltman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 420 words

ABSTRACT

Teacher sentenced for interenet child contact

FULL TEXT

Aformer substitute teacherat Mary Star of the Sea High School in San Pedro has
been sentenced to nearly a year in jail and must register as a sex offender for
sending naked photos of himself to underage girls on the internet to entice them
to return pornographic pictures of themselves, prosecutors said Friday.

Daniel T. O'Connell, 32, of Rancho Palos Verdes was sentenced Sept. 1 in Los
Angeles Superior Court downtown to 364 days in county jail and five years'
probation. He also must attend a minimum of 52 weeks of sex-offender counseling,
Deputy District Attorney Angela Brunson said.

In a deal with prosecutors, O'Connell pleaded no contest to one count of "using
a minor for sex acts," a penal code section used to prosecute people for asking
a child to send pornographic photos of themselves. Although the sentence was
imposed Sept. 1, O'Connell was back in court Friday before Judge Paul Suzuki to
correct an error in the details of his plea agreement.

O'Connell was arrested Jan. 10 when detectives from the Los Angeles Police
Department's Internet Crimes Against Children unit served a search warrant at
his home.

Investigators said the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children had
received information that O'Connell made inappropriate contact with minors that
he met while on a mathematics and physics tutoring website. He did not meet any
of the children in person.

O'Connell, a long-term substitute who taught physics at the San Pedro parochial
school, was charged in January with six felony counts that included charges
alleging he contacted minors to seduce them and lure them into sending
photographs.

Police identified four victims across the country, Brunson said. Some returned
images of themselves to O'Connell.

Five counts were dismissed as part of his plea deal.

As part of his sentence, O'Connell's Dell Vostro computer, Seagate hard drive,
Samsung Galaxy 6 and HP ProBook laptop - which were all seized during the
investigation - will be destroyed, Brunson said.

O'Connell also cannot use the internet to contact children and cannot spend any
unsupervised time with minors. If he violates any terms of the agreement, he
will be sentenced to two years in state prison, Brunson said.

O'Connell's status as a registered sex offender will prevent him from teaching
school again. As an Australian citizen, he could be deported, authorities said.

Police investigated, but found no offenses occurred involving any of his
students, Brunson said.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 18, 2017 Saturday

LGBT victims pass blacks as targets for hate crimes

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 839 words

ABSTRACT

Hate crimes in which there was evidence of white supremacist ideology surged by
67 percent from 63 incidents in 2015 to 105 incidents last year.

FULL TEXT

Nearly a quarter of all hate crimes reported in Los Angeles County last year
were based on sexual orientation, making gay men, lesbians and LGBT
organizations the group most frequently targeted for the first time in many
years, according to a new report.

The last time the number of homophobic hate crimes exceeded the number of
anti-black crimes was in 2002, according to the Los Angeles County Commission on
Human Relations.

There were 118 reported hate crimes based on sexual orientation in 2016, which
is two less than the prior year, according to the Commission's 2016 Hate Crime
Report released Thursday. Eighty-one percent of these hate crimes were violent.

They included one hate murder, in which prosecutors alleged that Shehadeh Khalil
Issa of North Hills killed his openly gay adult son, Amir, in April of last year
partly because of "an extreme hatred of his son's sexuality." Issa was found
guilty of premeditated murder in the death of his  wife and son as well as for
the hate crime allegation.

The total number of hate crimes reported in the county last year was 482, one
less than 2015, when there was a 24 percent increase over 2014 and the highest
total since 2011, according to the report.

Meanwhile, gender-based crimes jumped by 77 percent last year, most of which
were anti-transgender crimes. In fact, anti-transgender crimes jumped 72 percent
from 18 to 31 reported incidents, with a staggering 97 percent of a violent
nature; more than any major victim group, the commission found.

"It's alarming (and) at the same time, I always know that the numbers that law
enforcement report compared to the number of clients I see coming through my
office is always different because there is this fear of going to law
enforcement and reporting because there is a fear of revictimization," said
Mariana Marroquin, a transgender woman who is program manager for the
Anti-Violence Project at the Los Angeles LGBT Center.

Latina transgender women, such as Marroquin, were targeted the most, the report
found. Marroquin said she fled her native Guatemala after she was attacked for
her gender identity, stripped naked and heard her attackers plot her death in
1998. Then one day after she had moved to the U.S. in 2002, she was called a
homophobic slur by a random man and punched in the face while walking home in
the Hollywood area.

However, the work being done with the transgender community about knowing their
rights is paying off, she said, because people are more willing to come forward
and report such incidents than they have been in the past.

Another alarming trend is that hate crimes in which there was evidence of white
supremacist ideology - including acts of vandalism in which swastikas or other
hate symbols were used - surged by 67 percent from 63 in 2015 to 105 incidents
in 2016. This made up more than one-fifth of all hate crimes reported last year,
up from 13 percent the previous year.

Los Angeles County Supervisor Hilda Solis, who represents the San Gabriel Valley
and east and northeast L.A., said she has witnessed this in the southeastern
part of her district. In recent months, they've had to alert the L.A. County
Sheriff's Department because white supremacists and anti-immigrant groups have
disrupted city council meetings in communities such as Cudahy, yelling hateful
rhetoric and brandishing weapons at times.

"Most hate crimes appear to be motivated by race, ethnicity or national origin,"
she said.

The commission also found that between the Nov. 8, 2016, presidential election
and Dec. 31, 82 hate crimes were reported in the county, representing an
increase of seven hate crimes or 9 percent from the same period the previous
year.

"While seven additional crimes may not seem like a lot, we have to remember that
in the previous year there was an exceptionally large jump (47 percent) in the
number of hate crimes in November and December of 2015 following the terrorist
attacks in Paris and then in neighboring San Bernardino," said Robin S. Toma,
executive director of the L.A. County Commission on Human Relations, referring
to a surge in anti-Muslim and Middle Eastern hate crimes.

President Donald Trump's name was touted in several reported hate crimes during
this period. Among them, an Asian woman in Woodland Hills was yelled at by two
white men in a car while walking her dogs on Nov. 11 of last year. Using racial
slurs, the perpetrators told her to go back to where she came from, yelled
"Trump town!" and struck her with eggs, according to the report.

Blacks were the second most targeted group, with 112 incidents reported though
anti-black hate crimes declined 19 percent over 2015. Jews were the third most
targeted group, composing 67 percent of the 101 religious hate crimes despite
making up a small percentage of the population. Mexicans were the fourth most
targeted group while transgender individuals were the fifth.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            March 18, 2017 Saturday

Men sentenced in 2015 cocaine raid;
Authorities found 562 pounds of the drug in Santa Fe Springs residence; ring was
connected to Mexico's Sinaloa cartel

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words

ABSTRACT

LOS ANGELES >> Two Sante Fe Springs men arrested in a jailed in a $672-pound
cocaine bust linked to the Sinaloa drug cartel received prison sentences of more
than 20 years each last week, authorities said.

FULL TEXT

Two Santa Fe Springs men jailed in a 672-pound cocaine bust linked to the
Sinaloa drug cartel received prison sentences of more than two decades each last
week, authorities said.

Eddie Perez, 43, and Jose Garcia Samano, 41, have been behind bars since June 2,
2015, when a Los Angeles County sheriff's task forcecarried out a raidat a home
in the11400 block of Charlesworth Roadin Santa Fe Springs, where deputies seized
562 pounds of cocaine.

The bust took place one day after deputies arrested two other men linked to the
drug ring after pulling over their car in their hometown of Victorville and
discovering 110 pounds of the drug in the trunk of their vehicle, according to
officials from the sheriff's Los Angeles Interagency Metropolitan Police
Apprehension Crime Task Force, orL.A. IMPACT. The large-scale drug-dealing
operation was believed to be linked to the Sinaloa cartel in Mexico.
Investigators valued the seized cocaine at $35 million.

At their sentencing hearing March 9, Perez received a prison term of 23 years,
while Samano was sentenced to 27 years in state prison, Los Angeles County
District Attorney's Office spokesman Greg Risling said.

Perez had pleaded guilty to selling a controlled substance, conspiracy to commit
a crime and two counts of possession of a controlled substance, Risling said.
Samano pleaded guilty to selling a controlled substance and conspiracy.

Thetwo other defendantsin the case, who were arrested during the traffic stop in
Victorville, are already serving time for their roles in the cocaine ring.

Eligio Alvarez Manriquez, 27, received a sentence of 22 years in state prison in
February after pleading no contest to selling a controlled substance, possession
of a controlled substance and conspiracy, Risling said. Jose Manuel Lopez, 25,
was sentenced to three years, to be served in county jail, in November after
pleading guilty to a single charge of conspiracy.

A woman who was initially arrested along with Manriquez and Lopez was ultimately
released without charges due to a lack of evidence of her involvement, officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday

LeBron's L.A. home target of hate crime

BYLINE: and FRED KERBER

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 292 words


OAKLAND, Calif. - LeBron James was missing that energy. He was downright stoic,
in fact. But there was reason. James' Los Angeles home had been vandalized in an
ugly racial attack.

"Obviously, you see I'm not my normal energetic self. It will pass. That's fine.

I'm figuring it out," James said Wednesday after his L.A. home was targeted in a
suspected hate crime as the N-word was spray-painted on the front gate.

"I'm thinking about my kids a lot. Obviously, I'm not in front of them," James
said. "[My wife] said everything's fine. So that helps me out a lot." TMZ first
reported the incident and that Los Angeles police were investigating it as a
hate crime and were checking security camera tapes.

"As I sit here on the eve of one of the greatest sporting events that we have in
sports," James said, "race and what's going on comes again and on my behalf and
my family's behalf. But I look at it as this. If this is to shed a light and
continue to keep the conversation going on my behalf, then I'm OK with it. My
family is safe. At the end of the day, they're safe, and that's the most
important.

"But it just goes to show that racism will always be a part of the world, a part
of America," James said. "Hate in America, especially for African-Americans, is
living every day. And even though that it's concealed most of the time, even
though people hide their faces and will say things about you and when they see
you they smile in your face, it's a life every single day.

"No matter how much how much money you have, no matter how famous you are, no
matter how many people admire you, being black in America, it's tough. We got a
long way to go for us as a society and for us as African-Americans, until we
feel equal in America."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 72 words

ABSTRACT

No police blotter for 1-12

FULL TEXT

Stephanie Walton is off. The weekly crime log for the Harbor Area will return
Jan. 19.

Information about crime in the area patrolled by the Los Angeles Police
Department Harbor Division, including links to maps of crime, is available on
the LAPD website, www.lapdonline.org/.

To find locations of incidents plotted on a map, see the South Bay Crime Map,
http://www.dailybreeze.com/crime-map/.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 72 words

ABSTRACT

No police blotter for 1-12

FULL TEXT

Stephanie Walton is off. The weekly crime log for the Harbor Area will return
Jan. 19.

Information about crime in the area patrolled by the Los Angeles Police
Department Harbor Division, including links to maps of crime, is available on
the LAPD website, www.lapdonline.org/.

To find locations of incidents plotted on a map, see the South Bay Crime Map,
http://www.dailybreeze.com/crime-map/.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             April 28, 2017 Friday

Union: OT cutbacks for LAPD in budget;
MTA patrols put fewer cops on streets, it says

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 674 words


A budgetary "sleight of hand" proposed by Mayor Eric Garcetti would result in
fewer officers out patrolling Los Angeles streets, even as crime is on the rise,
the union that represents Los Angeles police officers alleged Thursday.

"The shenanigans that occurred in the mayor's budget will put neighborhood
safety at risk," Los Angeles Police Protective League Vice President Jeretta
Sandoz told the City Council's Budget and Finance Committee, which is reviewing
the mayor's $9.2 billion budget proposal.

Officials for LAPPL, which represents more than 8,000 rank-and-file police
officers, said Garcetti's proposed $121 million allocation for police overtime
is an inflated amount, with $41 million of that funding actually going toward
providing security on buses and rail, under a recently

approved contract with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, LAPPL
officials said.

"The mayor's budget chooses to keep transit lines safe but not the
neighborhoods," Sandoz said.

Union officials argue the mayor's sworn overtime proposal represents a 20
percent reduction in the number of hours that could be put toward officers
patrolling neighborhoods.

In a letter to the committee urging the City Council to "reject this proposal"
by Garcetti, union leaders called the move a "well-orchestrated
bait-and-switch," noting that the police union's contract requires the city to
allot at least $100 million for overtime, but the city is technically putting in
$80 million to patrol neighborhood streets.

They say this translates to at least 328,000 fewer hours that could have gone to
neighborhood patrols going toward the Metro contracted services, LAPPL officials
said.

LAPPL board director Robert Harris said union leaders "were extremely dismayed
when we discovered this budgetary sleight of hand."

But Chief Charlie Beck told the committee Thursday that officer hours may not
actually be reduced. He explained that once the overtime funding runs out,
officers will still be working, but their hours will be "banked" and they will
not see payment until later, under a compensatory time-off program.

The deferred payment program "doesn't take them off the street," he said. "It
defers the city's liability, but it doesn't remove their boots from the ground."

Beck predicted that under the current proposal, the city may need to put
officers on the overtime banking plan beginning in May.

The City Council may need to weigh the financial costs of deferring payment, he
said.

Beck also said officers do not like this arrangement, telling the Daily News
after his budget presentation that it "defers their (the officers') payment for
overtime."

But "as you well know, a dollar of overtime banked now is often $2 when it's
paid," he said.

The addition of the $41 million for Metro security, which will be covered by the
transportation agency and not the city, raises the total sworn overtime
allocation to $121 million. But some, including Councilman Mitch Englander,
questioned whether this meets the "spirit" of the provision in the union
contract.

Both Beck and union leaders on Thursday pointed out that the proposed overtime
budget for the upcoming year is smaller than this year's. The city budgeted $90
million for sworn overtime this fiscal year, while out of the proposed $121
million for next year, only $80 million is actually being allotted from the
city's own coffers for officer overtime hours, Beck said.

Mayoral spokesman George Kivork said in a statement their office is "confident
we'll be able to meet the same safety requirements and neighborhood patrols as
we've had in the past - there will not be a reduction." The mayor's deputy chief
of staff, Matt Szabo, acknowledged during the committee meeting that the
likelihood that $80 million will not be enough to truly cover overtime costs in
the upcoming fiscal year is a problem.

But he said the mayor's office "had to make some significant and difficult
choices." "We fully understand that is not the most ideal situation, but the
entire budget presented a less than ideal situation," Szabo said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              June 19, 2017 Monday

Two knife-wielding juveniles sought in home burglary

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 228 words

ABSTRACT

Two juveniles burglarized a home Saturday night in Lancaster, authorities said.


FULL TEXT

LANCASTER >> Two juveniles wearing masks while armed with large kitchen knives
are wanted in connection with the burglary of a home Saturday night in
Lancaster, authorities said.

The burglary was reported at 11:25 p.m. in the 1700 block of E. Norberry Street,
Sgt. Theresa Dawson of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said.

The owners of the home let the juveniles in after they heard knocking on the
door, Dawson said, and were later robbed of cellphones, jewelry and a small
amount of cash.

After taking the items, the young duo left in an unknown direction, Dawson
added.

Police were still looking for the burglars as of Sunday afternoon.

An NBC Los Angeles television station report said the victims were a couple in
their 70s, but Dawson could not immediately confirm that information. A female
victim, Dawson added, sustained a minor injury during the crime but there was no
further information.

Frequently, people are victims of crimes because they feel obligated to open
their door when they hear knocking, and this is what appeared to have occurred
on Saturday night, the sergeant said.

"It's always best to not pretend to not be home," Dawson concluded. "Because
burglars will knock on your door. Instead, say 'Who is it?' And then say 'No,
I'm not interested.' "

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Ex-LAUSD food services director charged with embezzling

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 339 words

ABSTRACT

The former director of food services for the Los Angeles Unified School District
has been charged with misappropriation of public funds and embezzlement for
allegedly diverting $65,000 in district money to a culinary club he controlled,
prosecutors said Tuesday.

FULL TEXT

The former director of food services for the Los Angeles Unified School District
has been charged with misappropriation of public funds and embezzlement for
allegedly diverting $65,000 in district money to a culinary club he controlled,
prosecutors said Tuesday.

David Binkle, 55, is also accused of forging a district vendor application,
failing to report his outside financial interests to the district and funneling
public funds into his personal bank account, the Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office said in a statement.

All told, he's accused of 15 felony counts.

Binkle resigned from the LAUSD in 2015 following a critical audit of the food
services program.

The audit said the $341 million-a-year program under his direction had problems
dating back to the district's 2011 decision to let food services forgo standard
contracting practices with the expectation that administrative costs would be
lowered.

Expensive hotel stays and millions of dollars in waste were also uncovered by
the audit, which was released by the district's inspector general.

The ex-director was, as this paper reported in 2015, a champion of healthy
eating, even appearing at the White House alongside then-first lady Michelle
Obama and starring in TEDx Talks.

Prosecutors say between 2010 and 2014, he allegedly diverted the money to the
culinary club, for which he was president.

If convicted, he faces 13 years and eight months in state prison, according to
the D.A.'s office. Prosecutors have said an arrest warrant was filed on Aug. 2.
He was released on $220,000 bail.

When reached by phone on Tuesday, Binkle's attorney, Alec Rose, declined to
elaborate on the case.

On Tuesday, calls to several phone numbers listed for Binkle were either
disconnected or not returned.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 24, 2017 Monday

Washington: Da Vinci Apt. Arsonists Takes 15-Year Plea for $100 Million Fire

LENGTH: 361  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco has issued the following news release:
Today, Dawud Abdulwali, 58, took a 15-year plea agreement, to avoid a trial for
aggravated arson and arson of a structure, for starting the devastating fire
that destroyed the unfinished, seven-story Da Vinci apartment complex, at 900 W.
Temple St., Los Angeles, Calif., on Dec. 7, 2014. Investigators estimated the
fire caused more than a $100 million in damages.


The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) National Response
Team (NRT) responded to scene to join the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD),
Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) and Los Angeles ATF special agents who worked
jointly on the investigation.
More than 250 LAFD firefighters contended with a 1.26 million square-foot
structure. In addition to the structure itself, three nearby high-rise buildings
were damaged. There were no reported injuries.
"As the federal agency with jurisdiction for investigating fires and crimes of
arson, ATF partnered with LA Fire Department sharing its technical and
scientific expertise along with its cutting-edge resources to solve this
unnecessary and violent crime," said Eric Harden, special agent in charge, of
the ATF Los Angeles Field Division.
"While the motives in arson acts may vary from greed to plain evil, ATF's
determination and will to place these criminals behind bars is solid and
pointed. We will continue to seek out, investigate and remove arsonists from
society so our communities can be safe, Harden added.
ATF's NRT consists of highly trained agents, forensic chemists, engineers, EEOs,
electrical engineers, fire protection engineers, canine handlers, forensic
auditors and other technical experts who deploy within 24 hours to major
explosion and fire scenes anywhere in the U.S.
The NRT and LA ATF special agents assisted by completing a comprehensive
examination of the scene, followed up on countless leads, interviewed numerous
individuals, poured through social media sites, recovered security video, and
worked tirelessly with LAFD and LA County District Attorney Jacki Lacey's team
to secure evidence for this investigation.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Sheriff's deputy shoots man inside restaurant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

ABSTRACT

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is investigating a deputy-involved
shooting at or near a bus station in the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman
Way in Van Nuys, according to the Sheriff's Information Bureau and a report from
the scene. ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an
ambulance.

FULL TEXT

VAN NUYS >> A man shot by a sheriff's deputy inside a restaurant in Van Nuys
Monday is expected to survive, authorities said, and a second suspect was
reportedly taken into custody.

The shooting occurred at 3:12 p.m. Monday in a restaurant at Van Nuys Boulevard
and Valerio Street, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Vincent
Plair.

A deputy with the department's Metro Transit Services made contact with a person
at the restaurant that resulted in a pat-down, Plair said. During the pat-down,
the deputy retrieved a gun from the suspect and shortly after the
deputy-involved shooting occurred.

The man was wounded, but the deputy was not shot, Plair said, adding he did not
know the specifics of the altercation.

The wounded suspect was in critical condition, according to Deputy Kimberly
Alexander of the Sheriff's Information Bureau. His name was not immediately
released.

There were some other people with the injured man but they fled the scene,
according to Plair.

The Sheriff's Department was handling the investigation because their deputy was
involved in the shooting. Some of the Sheriff's Department transit division
areas traverse through the Los Angeles Police Department's area, Plair added.

ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an ambulance and
reported that Van Nuys Boulevard was closed near Valerio Street.

City News Service initially reported the shooting at or near a bus station in
the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman Way.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Sheriff's deputy shoots man inside restaurant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

ABSTRACT

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is investigating a deputy-involved
shooting at or near a bus station in the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman
Way in Van Nuys, according to the Sheriff's Information Bureau and a report from
the scene. ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an
ambulance.

FULL TEXT

VAN NUYS >> A man shot by a sheriff's deputy inside a restaurant in Van Nuys
Monday is expected to survive, authorities said, and a second suspect was
reportedly taken into custody.

The shooting occurred at 3:12 p.m. Monday in a restaurant at Van Nuys Boulevard
and Valerio Street, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Vincent
Plair.

A deputy with the department's Metro Transit Services made contact with a person
at the restaurant that resulted in a pat-down, Plair said. During the pat-down,
the deputy retrieved a gun from the suspect and shortly after the
deputy-involved shooting occurred.

The man was wounded, but the deputy was not shot, Plair said, adding he did not
know the specifics of the altercation.

The wounded suspect was in critical condition, according to Deputy Kimberly
Alexander of the Sheriff's Information Bureau. His name was not immediately
released.

There were some other people with the injured man but they fled the scene,
according to Plair.

The Sheriff's Department was handling the investigation because their deputy was
involved in the shooting. Some of the Sheriff's Department transit division
areas traverse through the Los Angeles Police Department's area, Plair added.

ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an ambulance and
reported that Van Nuys Boulevard was closed near Valerio Street.

City News Service initially reported the shooting at or near a bus station in
the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman Way.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Kings' Randolph arrested on drug charge in Watts

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: C,C; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 532 words

ABSTRACT

NBA star Zach Randolph of the Sacramento Kingswas one of two people arrested
Wednesday night while a crowd formed in the Nickerson Gardens housing project in
Watts and destroyed some police cars. Randolph, a former Los Angeles Clipper,
was arrested on suspicion of marijuana possession for sales, said LAPD Officer
Drake Madison. Another man, Stanley Walton, was also arrested. The incident
began at 10:18 p.m. Wednesday at a house in the area of 112th Street and Zamora
Avenue when a crowd formed who were drinking, smoking marijuana and blocking the
roadway, Madison said. Officers observed three suspects that reached for their
waistband and ran, Madison explained. Officers immediately detained one man
whowas questioned and released. Two other suspects went went inside the unit and
tried to block officers before police were able to gain entry and took the two
into custody, Madison said, The crowd then grew larger and started throwing
rocks and bottles at officers and a help call was placed and the LAPD and L.A.
County Sheriff's Department units responded. "A dispersal order was given,"
Madison said, adding skirmish lines were formed by the LAPD Devonshire division
before five LAPD patrol cars and one L.A. County Sheriff's Department vehicle
were vandalized. Cash, narcotics and two guns were recovered from the scene,
Madison added. City News Service contributed to this report

FULL TEXT


Zach Randolph of the Sacramento Kings was one of two people arrested Wednesday
night while a crowd formed in the Nickerson Gardens housing project in Watts and
vandalized six police cars.

The 36-year-old Randolph, a former Clipper, was arrested on suspicion of
marijuana possession and intent to sell, said LAPD Officer Drake Madison.
Another man, 43-year-old Stanley Walton, was also arrested on suspicion of being
an ex-convict in possession of a gun, Madison added.

"The charges are false and misleading," Randolph's agent and attorney Raymond
Brothers told The Associated Press on Thursday. "We're looking at all options to
resolve this matter."

The incident began at 10:18 p.m. Wednesday at a house in the area of  112th
Street and Zamora Avenue when a crowd formed that was drinking, smoking
marijuana and blocking the roadway, Madison said.

Officers observed three suspects that reached for their waistband and ran,
Madison explained. Officers immediately detained one man who was questioned and
released.

Two other suspects went inside the unit and tried to block officers before
police were able to gain entry and took the two into custody, Madison said,

The crowd then grew larger and started throwing rocks and bottles at officers. A
help call was placed andLAPD and L.A. County Sheriff's Department units
responded.

"A dispersal order was given," Madison said, adding skirmish lines were formed
by the LAPD Devonshire Division before five LAPD patrol cars and one L.A. County
Sheriff's Department vehicle were vandalized.

Cash, narcotics and two guns were recovered from the scene, Madison added.

As a free agent, Randolph signed a two-year, $24 million contract with the
Sacramento Kings on July 10.

Deputy Sports Editor Brian Martin and City News Service contributed to this
report

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             August 11, 2017 Friday

Kings' Randolph arrested on drug charge in Watts

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: C,C; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 532 words

ABSTRACT

NBA star Zach Randolph of the Sacramento Kingswas one of two people arrested
Wednesday night while a crowd formed in the Nickerson Gardens housing project in
Watts and destroyed some police cars. Randolph, a former Los Angeles Clipper,
was arrested on suspicion of marijuana possession for sales, said LAPD Officer
Drake Madison. Another man, Stanley Walton, was also arrested. The incident
began at 10:18 p.m. Wednesday at a house in the area of 112th Street and Zamora
Avenue when a crowd formed who were drinking, smoking marijuana and blocking the
roadway, Madison said. Officers observed three suspects that reached for their
waistband and ran, Madison explained. Officers immediately detained one man
whowas questioned and released. Two other suspects went went inside the unit and
tried to block officers before police were able to gain entry and took the two
into custody, Madison said, The crowd then grew larger and started throwing
rocks and bottles at officers and a help call was placed and the LAPD and L.A.
County Sheriff's Department units responded. "A dispersal order was given,"
Madison said, adding skirmish lines were formed by the LAPD Devonshire division
before five LAPD patrol cars and one L.A. County Sheriff's Department vehicle
were vandalized. Cash, narcotics and two guns were recovered from the scene,
Madison added. City News Service contributed to this report

FULL TEXT


Zach Randolph of the Sacramento Kings was one of two people arrested Wednesday
night while a crowd formed in the Nickerson Gardens housing project in Watts and
vandalized six police cars.

The 36-year-old Randolph, a former Clipper, was arrested on suspicion of
marijuana possession and intent to sell, said LAPD Officer Drake Madison.
Another man, 43-year-old Stanley Walton, was also arrested on suspicion of being
an ex-convict in possession of a gun, Madison added.

"The charges are false and misleading," Randolph's agent and attorney Raymond
Brothers told The Associated Press on Thursday. "We're looking at all options to
resolve this matter."

The incident began at 10:18 p.m. Wednesday at a house in the area of  112th
Street and Zamora Avenue when a crowd formed that was drinking, smoking
marijuana and blocking the roadway, Madison said.

Officers observed three suspects that reached for their waistband and ran,
Madison explained. Officers immediately detained one man who was questioned and
released.

Two other suspects went inside the unit and tried to block officers before
police were able to gain entry and took the two into custody, Madison said,

The crowd then grew larger and started throwing rocks and bottles at officers. A
help call was placed andLAPD and L.A. County Sheriff's Department units
responded.

"A dispersal order was given," Madison said, adding skirmish lines were formed
by the LAPD Devonshire Division before five LAPD patrol cars and one L.A. County
Sheriff's Department vehicle were vandalized.

Cash, narcotics and two guns were recovered from the scene, Madison added.

As a free agent, Randolph signed a two-year, $24 million contract with the
Sacramento Kings on July 10.

Deputy Sports Editor Brian Martin and City News Service contributed to this
report

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

HIGHWAY 1;
Fuel thieves are raking in millions;
The crime is most prevalent in California, Florida, Texas, officials say.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words


A black market for diesel and gasoline has rapidly spread around the nation,
with organized crime gangs using fraudulent credit cards to siphon millions of
dollars in fuel from gas stations into large tanks hidden inside pickup trucks
and vans.

Stealing fuel can be less risky than selling drugs or other illegal endeavors,
and criminals can make $1,000 or more a day reselling the stolen fuel at
construction sites and unscrupulous gas stations, or to truckers looking to cut
costs, investigators and industry experts say.

"It's pretty rampant," said Owen DeWitt, whose Texas-based company, Know
Control, focuses solely on helping gas stations prevent fuel theft. He said the
crime is worst along Interstate 10, from Jacksonville, Fla., to the Los Angeles
area. "California and Florida are the two worst; Texas is No. 3."

Black-market diesel started becoming a big business when credit card "skimmers"
became more prevalent around 2006, DeWitt said. Thieves install these devices at
gas station pumps, where they record card information as unsuspecting customers
fuel up. The information is later transferred to a magnetic strip on a
counterfeit card. The problem has only grown as the devices become more
sophisticated.

The black market has grown quickly in part because the thefts total a few
hundred dollars at a time, and prosecutors were slow to prioritize them. But as
fuel thefts become more organized, they have caught the attention of state and
federal authorities around the country.

Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Adam Putnam's department takes
the lead on prosecuting these crimes in Florida. He said they used to be
considered a "victimless" or "slap-on-the-wrist-type crime, and yet they were
making more money doing this than a lot of other criminal activities that had a
lot higher sentences."

The U.S. Secret Service, which investigates financial crimes, is involved
because the gangs use credit card skimmers. Agent Steve Scarince says Miami, Los
Angeles and Las Vegas are hot spots, together accounting for about 20 million
gallons a year in stolen diesel.

"The crews that we've investigated over the past couple of years -- the least
profitable group is $5 million a year. And then there are groups that will gross
$20 million-plus," Scarince said. "The gang bangers in Los Angeles have been
migrating to financial crimes instead of street crimes because it's much more
profitable and if you get caught, you get probation."

Court records from a single Secret Service case prosecuted in 2014 illustrate
how much money even a small crew can take in.

Agents in the Los Angeles area surveilled a group with seven pickups and SUVs
with hidden fuel tanks holding up to 300 gallons each. For 10 months, they
observed drivers using credit card information stolen from about 900 people to
fill up three times a day. They transferred the diesel into a 4,500-gallon
industrial fuel tanker that made daily runs to sell the fuel to gas stations.

Agents estimated they stole close to $16,000 in fuel every day, with the
potential to steal $7 million a year. Records indicated it was in operation for
about five years before agents shut it down.

"Theft has been involved with fuel for as long as retailers have been selling
fuel," said Jeff Lenard, a vice president of the National Assn. of Convenience
Stores in Alexandria, Va., but today's criminals are "trying to steal hundreds,
if not thousands, of gallons."

Thieves often use dozens of fraudulent cards at a time, inserting one after
another to fill up hidden tanks. One gang used fraudulent credit cards for a
month to steal $100,000 in diesel from two stations in central Florida. In other
cases, one thief parks a truck to block the clerk's view while another pumps
diesel directly from an underground tank through a hole in the vehicle's
floorboards, investigators say.

Texas Comptroller Glenn Hegar has pursued sellers of black-market fuel for
breaking state motor fuel tax evasion laws, securing some stiff sentences: In
2015 alone, his office worked to indict more than 100 suspected motor fuel
thieves. A Gorman, Texas, man got 40 years in 2015, and a Haskell, Texas, man
was sentenced to 10 years last August.

There are ways of foiling these thieves, including security devices that can
shut down a pump if someone tampers with it. It's an expensive arms race, but in
addition to the economic effect, there are safety concerns.

In 2014, a convicted fuel thief's van exploded as he filled a secret tank in
Miami-Dade County. In 2015, a man driving a truck carrying 1,650 gallons of
stolen diesel led police on a high-speed chase in the Los Angeles area, weaving
in and out of traffic on the 5 Freeway before crashing into a barrier.

"God forbid that hits a school bus with a bunch of kids on it," said Ned Bowman,
executive director of the Florida Petroleum and Convenience Store Assn. "A car
full of that much fuel is like a bomb going down the street."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PICKUPS like this one, which is outfitted with a large tank, are
sometimes used to steal fuel.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Larry Payne Florida Department of
Agriculture

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             March 31, 2017 Friday

Trump marchers want probe;
President's supporters say they are victims of hate crimes

BYLINE: Ryan Carter; rcarter@scng.com @RyinIE on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 469 words

ABSTRACT

PROTEST

FULL TEXT

Supporters of President Donald Trump are calling on authorities to investigate
violence against them under state civil rights laws, after clashes erupted over
the weekend at pro-Trump rallies in Hollywood and Huntington Beach.

"They threw bottles at us," Matthew Woods, a Hollywood protest organizer, said
Thursday. "We were surprised at the violence directed against ... and we're not
going to take it anymore."

Woods claimed some of the Trump supporters were victims of hate crimes when they
were confronted by angry counterprotesters Saturday on Hollywood Boulevard and
at Bolsa Chica State Beach in Huntington Beach.

The rallies coincided with a series of nationwide Make America Great Again - or
MAGA - marches in support of the Trump administration.

But the California events turned ugly.

In Orange County, what was dubbed as a family-friendly gathering devolved into a
violent brawl between marchers and counterprotesters for about 30 minutes.

Videos have since surfaced of angry counterprotesters punching and cursing at
marchers, leaving those who were assaulted asking why police didn't step in to
stop to the violence.

Authorities charged three males with felony illegal use of pepper spray and one
woman with misdemeanor assault and battery.

Meanwhile in Hollywood, as Trump supporters marched from the Pantages Theatre to
the president's star on the Walk of Fame, they were met by counterprotesters
shouting anti-Trump expletives.

The event never fully descended into chaos, but it had its moments, including a
fistfight that broke out on the sidewalk when a man grabbed a Trump supporter's
hat. Woods said someone also spat on a woman during the march.

Los Angeles police on bikes arrested two men for possible assault after the
fistfight. It was unclear if they were charged.

Ahead of a news conference Thursday in Hollywood, Woods called on the district
attorneys in Orange and Los Angeles counties to enforce the Ralph Civil Rights
Act and the Bane Civil Rights Act, which "protects people from continued
violence or the threat of violence based on grounds such as race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, political affiliation, sex, sexual
orientation, age, disability or position in a labor dispute," according to state
law.

The Los Angeles Police Department defines a hate crime as "any criminal act or
attempted criminal act directed against a person or persons based on the
victim's actual or perceived race, nationality, religion, sexual orientation,
disability or gender."

Woods praised the LAPD for preventing the Hollywood march from getting out of
control.

While he welcomed the debate in a nation divided under Trump's presidency, he
said some counterprotesters went too far, and the Trump supporters were victims.

"Anyone can be subject to a hate crime," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             April 11, 2017 Tuesday

Victim in Skid Row stabbing still in critical condition

BYLINE: Ryan Fonseca; rfonseca@scng.com @RyFons on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 257 words


A man stabbed last week on Skid Row remains in critical condition as Los Angeles
police continue to probe theofficer-involved shootingthat occurred when officers
confronted his attacker.

Two other people were stabbed in the area, but the Los Angeles Police
Department's Force Investigation Division still is not sure if they're connected
to the stabbing witnessed by officers.

About 11:54 a.m. Friday, uniformed officers patrolling in the area of Sixth and
San Pedro streets "observed a man on the sidewalk being stabbed," according to
an LAPD press release."The officers exited their vehicle and confronted the
armed male suspect and an officer-involved-shooting occurred."

The suspect was struck by gunfire and taken into custody without further
incident. He was transported to a local hospital and was listed in stable
condition.

The suspect was earlier described as a man in his 40s, according to LAPD Officer
Liliana Preciado.

The stabbing victim was also taken to the hospital and was in critical condition
with "several stab wounds," officials said.

No officers were injured during this incident and an unknown type of edged
weapon was recovered at scene.

Before the shooting, police calls were put out about two other stabbings in the
area- one at Seventh and San Julian streets, the other at Fifth and Crocker
streets. Those victims were also hospitalized in unknown condition.

"We're simply trying to connect all the dots. I can't tell you if the same
suspect is responsible for the other two locations." LAPD Sgt. Barry Montgomery
said Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             April 28, 2017 Friday

L.A. officers union alleges budget 'shenanigans'

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 674 words


A budgetary "sleight of hand" proposed by Mayor Eric Garcetti would result in
fewer officers out patrolling Los Angeles streets, even as crime is on the rise,
the union that represents Los Angeles police officers alleged Thursday.

"The shenanigans that occurred in the mayor's budget will put neighborhood
safety at risk," Los Angeles Police Protective League Vice President Jeretta
Sandoz told the City Council's Budget and Finance Committee, which is reviewing
the mayor's $9.2 billion budget proposal.

Officials for LAPPL, which represents more than 8,000 rank-and-file police
officers, said Garcetti's proposed $121 million allocation for police overtime
is an inflated amount, with $41 million of that funding actually going toward
providing security on buses and rail, under a recently approved contract with
the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, LAPPL officials said.

"The mayor's budget chooses to keep transit lines safe but not the
neighborhoods," Sandoz said.

Union officials argue the mayor's sworn overtime proposal represents a 20
percent reduction in the number of hours that could be put toward officers
patrolling neighborhoods.

In a letter to the committee urging the City Council to "reject this proposal"
by Garcetti, union leaders called the move a "well-orchestrated
bait-and-switch," noting that the police union's contract requires the city to
allot at least $100 million for overtime, but the city is technically putting in
$80 million to patrol neighborhood streets.

They say this translates to at least 328,000 fewer hours that could have gone to
neighborhood patrols going toward the Metro contracted services, LAPPL officials
said.

LAPPL board director Robert Harris said union leaders "were extremely dismayed
when we discovered this budgetary sleight of hand."

But Chief Charlie Beck told the committee Thursday that officer hours may not
actually be reduced. He explained that once the overtime funding runs out,
officers will still be working, but their hours will be "banked" and they will
not see payment until later, under a compensatory time-off program.

The deferred payment program "doesn't take them off the street," he said. "It
defers the city's liability, but it doesn't remove their boots from the ground."

Beck predicted that under the current proposal, the city may need to put
officers on the overtime banking plan beginning in May.

The City Council may need to weigh the financial costs of deferring payment, he
said.

Beck also said officers do not like this arrangement, telling the Daily News
after his budget presentation that it "defers their (the officers') payment for
overtime."

But "as you well know, a dollar of overtime banked now is often $2 when it's
paid," he said.

The addition of the $41 million for Metro security, which will be covered by the
transportation agency and not the city, raises the total sworn overtime
allocation to $121 million. But some, including Councilman Mitch Englander,
questioned whether this meets the "spirit" of the provision in the union
contract.

Both Beck and union leaders on Thursday pointed out that the proposed overtime
budget for the upcoming year is smaller than this year's. The city budgeted $90
million for sworn overtime this fiscal year, while out of the proposed $121
million for next year, only $80 million is actually being allotted from the
city's own coffers for officer overtime hours, Beck said.

Mayoral spokesman George Kivork said in a statement their office is "confident
we'll be able to meet the same safety requirements and neighborhood patrols as
we've had in the past - there will not be a reduction." The mayor's deputy chief
of staff, Matt Szabo, acknowledged during the committee meeting that the
likelihood that $80 million will not be enough to truly cover overtime costs in
the upcoming fiscal year is a problem.

But he said the mayor's office "had to make some significant and difficult
choices." "We fully understand that is not the most ideal situation, but the
entire budget presented a less than ideal situation," Szabo said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 29, 2017 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nation Briefs

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 503 words


10 injured in shooting during party at National Guard Armory

Authorities say 10 people in western Tennessee were injured in a shooting at a
party at a National Guard Armory.

Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokeswoman Susan Niland says the shooting in
Brownsville occurred before midnight Friday when a fight broke out at the
armory. Authorities believe the facility had been rented out for a party.

Niland says the victims, including two juveniles and eight adults, were
transported to Jackson General Hospital. Two were expected to be transported to
the Med in Memphis with injuries that were not life-threatening.

Niland says seven others were treated for injuries and have been released, or
were in the process of being released.

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation and the Brownsville Police Department were
investigating the shooting.

Three more airports will get quick security ID scanners - Los Angeles
International Airport will be getting new fingerprint and iris scanners for
passengers who want to speed through security lines.

The Los Angeles Times reported Saturday that biometric screening company Clear
will install kiosks by the end of March in Los Angeles and at Atlanta
Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International
Airport. The company's kiosks can confirm a traveler's identification in
seconds.

Passengers must pay an annual $179 fee to enroll and use the system.

The company already operates in airports in San Francisco, Washington and New
York.

Audi safety recall affects 576,000 vehicles in U.S. - Volkswagen's luxury Audi
brand is recalling more than 576,000 vehicles in the U.S. for two separate
defects.

Audi says 2013-2017 model year A5, A5 Cabriolet and Q5 SUVs with 2.0-liter
turbocharged engines may have an electric coolant pump that can get blocked with
debris. If that happens, the pump can overheat and cause a fire. The recall
affects 342,867 vehicles.

Audi also is recalling 2011-2017 Q5 SUVs because the sunroof drainage system can
allow water to soak into the foam surrounding the side air bag inflators. If
that happens, the inflator could rupture and spew metal fragments into the
vehicle. The recall affects 234,054 vehicles.

In both cases, Audi will notify owners and repair the vehicles for free. The
recalls are expected to begin next month.

Blaze destroys mosque in Texas - An early-morning fire Saturday destroyed a
Texas mosque that was a target of hatred several years ago and experienced a
burglary just a week ago.

A convenience store clerk spotted smoke and flames billowing from the Islamic
Center of Victoria around 2 a.m. and called the fire department.

Victoria Fire Marshal Tom Legler asked for help from the Texas Fire Marshal's
Office and federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to
determine what caused the blaze. Authorities have told him it was too early to
speculate.

It's the second mosque to burn down in Texas this month. On Jan. 7, a mosque
under construction near Lake Travis in Austin was burned to the ground.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  A firefighter walks in front of the Islamic Center of Victoria on
Saturday, Jan. 28 in Victoria, Texas.  The early-morning fire Saturday destroyed
the mosque that was a target of hatred several years ago and experienced a
burglary just a week ago.  (Barclay Fernandez/The Victoria Advocate via AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 31, 2017 Friday

Trump marchers want probe;
President's supporters say they are victims of hate crimes after clashes at
events in Hollywood, Orange County; demand civil rights investigation

BYLINE: Ryan Carter; rcarter@scng.com @RyinIE on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 469 words

ABSTRACT

PROTEST

FULL TEXT

Supporters of President Donald Trump are calling on authorities to investigate
violence against them under state civil rights laws, after clashes erupted over
the weekend at pro-Trump rallies in Hollywood and Huntington Beach.

"They threw bottles at us," Matthew Woods, a Hollywood protest organizer, said
Thursday. "We were surprised at the violence directed against ... and we're not
going to take it anymore."

Woods claimed some of the Trump supporters were victims of hate crimes when they
were confronted by angry counterprotesters Saturday on Hollywood Boulevard and
at Bolsa Chica State Beach in Huntington Beach.

The rallies coincided with a series of nationwide Make America Great Again - or
MAGA - marches in support of the Trump administration.

But the California events turned ugly.

In Orange County, what was dubbed as a family-friendly gathering devolved into a
violent

brawl between marchers and counterprotesters for about 30 minutes.

Videos have since surfaced of angry counterprotesters punching and cursing at
marchers, leaving those who were assaulted asking why police didn't step in to
stop to the violence.

Authorities charged three males with felony illegal use of pepper spray and one
woman with misdemeanor assault and battery.

Meanwhile in Hollywood, as Trump supporters marched from the Pantages Theatre to
the president's star on the Walk of Fame, they were met by counterprotesters
shouting anti-Trump expletives.

The event never fully descended into chaos, but it had its moments, including a
fistfight that broke out on the sidewalk when a man grabbed a Trump supporter's
hat. Woods said someone also spat on a woman during the march.

Los Angeles police on bikes arrested two men for possible assault after the
fistfight. It was unclear if they were charged.

Ahead of a news conference Thursday in Hollywood, Woods called on the district
attorneys in Orange and Los Angeles counties to enforce the Ralph Civil Rights
Act and the Bane Civil Rights Act, which "protects people from continued
violence or the threat of violence based on grounds such as race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, political affiliation, sex, sexual
orientation, age, disability or position in a labor dispute," according to state
law.

The Los Angeles Police Department defines a hate crime as "any criminal act or
attempted criminal act directed against a person or persons based on the
victim's actual or perceived race, nationality, religion, sexual orientation,
disability or gender."

Woods praised the LAPD for preventing the Hollywood march from getting out of
control.

While he welcomed the debate in a nation divided under Trump's presidency, he
said some counterprotesters went too far, and the Trump supporters were victims.

"Anyone can be subject to a hate crime," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday

Helping fight the battle against Southland hate;
Skirball Center: Prize honors those who undercut crimes based on bigotry

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

ABSTRACT

Law enforcement from the San Fernando Valley, Orange County and Riverside County
were all honored on Tuesday at the Anti-Defamation League's event in Los
Angeles.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles Police Department detective Richard Lozano will never forget Nov.
25, 2013, when a pipe bomb exploded across the street from Christopher Columbus
Middle School in Canoga Park.

"This bomb - luckily for the citizens - went off at 4:30 a.m.," Lozano said.
"Had it gone off at school hours or when parents were taking their kids to
school, it could have been a different outcome."

The blast was linked to the San Fernando Valley Peckerwoods, a white-supremacist
street gang that had ties to the Aryan Brotherhood. The arrest of Canoga Park
resident Erik Cutshaw in connection with the pipe bomb was just one of a series
of actions, including nuisance abatement lawsuits, which ended in taking down
the group in 2016, officials said.

Lozano was honored Tuesday for his role in making that happen. He was joined by
other LAPD officers, officials from the L.A. City Attorney's Office and law
enforcement from Orange County to the Inland Empire at the Anti-Defamation
League's Helene and Joseph Sherwood Family Prize for Combating Hate.

Amanda Susskind, regional director for the Pacific Southwest Regional Office of
the ADL, said the event, held at Cotsen Auditorium at the Skirball Cultural
Center in Los Angeles, was much-needed.

"Law enforcement is in the news for bad things, and every time something bad
happens, it's in the news," Susskind said before the awards were given. "That's
not a bad thing, but the Sherwood family felt that it was important for law
enforcement heroes to also get that same kind of attention and press. So many of
our law enforcement brothers and sisters are doing extraordinary things. This
prize is intended to honor those who are doing over and beyond the call of duty
to combat hate."

o Riverside County Sheriff's Department Deputy Yadira Perez was honored with a
Sherwood Prize for helping arrest a suspect in a Coachella mosque arson on Dec.
11, 2015. Perez was off duty, officials said, and saw smoke coming from the
Islamic Society of the Coachella Valley mosque. She also saw a man, later
identified as Carl James Dial, fleeing the scene, and she was able to give an
accurate description that led to his arrest.

Perez said she followed the man, whom she said was running with something in his
hand before he got inside of a truck parked not far from the mosque.

"I was in my private vehicle," Perez said, adding it was the first time she had
followed someone that way. "I think I was at the right place at the right time
... I think it's my job to serve and protect. Whether it was a hate crime,
whether it was a crime person to person, I think it was

my job to do that."

o An international terrorism investigation and prosecution in Orange County led
to several agencies being honored for using investigative and prosecution
tactics to thwart two Anaheim men set to travel in May 2015 to Syria and fight
for ISIS, officials said.

Agencies honored included the FBI, U.S. Attorney's Office, Central District of
California and the O.C. Intelligence Assessment Center.

The men, Nader Salem Elhuzayel and Nader Salem Elhuzayel, were sentenced in
September and October to 30 years in federal prison.

"It was a privilege to be part of a case that addresses the growing problem of
young individuals who are being radicalized by the internet ," said Assistant
U.S. Attorney Julius Nam before being given the award with others. "So to be
part of a trial team that prosecuted individuals who were conspiring to join an
organization who do harm to this nation was a great privilege."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

National Crime Victims' Rights Week commemorated by DA Ramos

BYLINE: Ryan Hagen; rhagen@scng.com @rmhagen on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 357 words

ABSTRACT

A

FULL TEXT

SAN BERNARDINO >> National Crime Victims' Rights Week opened Monday with a
somber ceremony hosted by the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office.

The ceremony symbolizes the focus that the criminal justice system should have
52 weeks a year, said District Attorney Michael A. Ramos.

And it's a promise to anyone affected by crime, he said.

"Stay strong," Ramos said. "When you have that anxiety-filled moment when you
feel like you can't breathe, think of us - think of today. We will never stop
seeking justice for you."

Former San Bernardino police officers Gabe Garcia and his father, Ron Garcia,
both attended the ceremony and shook hands with Ramos.

On Aug. 22, 2014, Gabe Garcia and his trainee, Officer Marcus Pesquera, came
upon a group of people gathered around a car. Both officers stepped from their
patrol car to see what the group was doing when one of the men opened fire,
felling Garcia.

Pesquera returned fire and killed the gunman, Alex Alvarado, 38. Pesquera
received the Medal of Valor from the Police Department and Gov. Jerry Brown for
his actions.

Crime victim Kermit Alexander, a Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive back for
the San Francisco 49ers and Los Angeles Rams in the 1960s and 1970s, was also at
the ceremony.

In 1984, Los Angeles gang members went into a house two doors down from the one
they were looking for. They murdered Alexander's mother, sister and two nephews.

The experience propelled the family into fighting for victims' rights, said Tami
Alexander, who accepted an award from Ramos alongside her husband.

"We do this for all victims," she said. "This is the one area - victims' rights
- that crosses color barriers, age, Democrats and Republicans."

The Alexanders campaigned in 2016 against Proposition 62, to repeal the death
penalty in California, and for Proposition 66, to speed up the death penalty.
Both passed, but the state Supreme Court has delayed implementing the measure
until a review of its legality.

This is the fourth annual memorial hosted at the San Bernardino County
Government Center for crime victims.

This year's theme was "strength - resilience - justice."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                              June 6, 2017 Tuesday

David Spade Is the Latest Celebrity Burglary Victim

BYLINE: Ryan Parker

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 146  words


Beverly Hills police are investigating a burglary that occurred last week at the
home of David Spade, the department confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter.


The break-in happened between May 27 and June 2, police said. The Saturday Night
Live veteran was away when the crime took place, police said.


The investigation is ongoing, and police would not discuss any details of the
crime. TMZreported that a safe was stolen from Spade's residence.


Spade is the most recent celebrity victim to join the growing list of
high-profile home burglaries. Others who have been targeted include Emmy Rossum,
Nick Young, Kendall Jenner, Kevin Hart and Los Angeles Dodgers slugger Yasiel
Puig.


Los Angeles police previously told THR the celebrity home break-ins are not
connectedto the gang "Knock-Knock" burglaries.


Read more: Hollywood Stars Hit by a Wave of Burglaries: "This Is Organized Crime
"

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2017 Prometheus Global Media, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday

ADL honors law enforcement;
Several agencies, officials receive prize for efforts to stem hate crime

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 407 words

ABSTRACT

Law enforcement from the San Fernando Valley, Orange County and Riverside County
were all honored on Tuesday at the Anti-Defamation League's event in Los
Angeles.

FULL TEXT

Richard Lozano of the Los Angeles Police Department will never forget Nov. 25,
2013, when a pipe bomb exploded across the street from Christopher Columbus
Middle School in Canoga Park.

"This bomb - luckily for the citizens - went off at 4:30 a.m.," Lozano said.
"Had it gone off at school hours or when parents were taking their kids to
school, it could have been a different outcome."

The incident was part of an investigation into the San Fernando Valley
Peckerwoods, a white-supremacist street gang who had ties to the Aryan
Brotherhood. The arrest of Canoga Park resident Erik Cutshaw - in connection
with the pipe bomb - was just one of a series of actions, including nuisance
abatement lawsuits, which resulted in the group's 2016 takedown, officials said.

Lozano, a detective, was honored for his work Tuesday. He was joined by other
LAPD officers, officials from the L.A. City Attorney's Office and law
enforcement from Orange County to the Inland Empire at the Anti-Defamation
League's Helene and Joseph Sherwood Family Prize for Combating Hate.

Amanda Susskind, regional director for the Pacific Southwest Regional Office of
the ADL, said the event was much needed.

"Law enforcement is in the news for bad things, and every time something bad
happens it's in the news," Susskind said before the awards were given. "The
Sherwood family felt that it was important for law enforcement heroes to also
get that same kind of attention and press."

o Riverside County Sheriff's Department Deputy Sheriff Yadira Perez was honored
with a Sherwood Prize for helping to thwart a Coachella mosque arson on Dec. 11,
2015. Perez was off duty, officials said, and saw smoke coming from the Islamic
Society of the Coachella Valley when she saw a man - Carl James Dial - fleeing
the scene. She was able to give an accurate description that led to his capture.

oAn international terrorism investigation and prosecution in Orange County
featured multiple agencies honored for using investigative and prosecution
tactics to thwart two Anaheim men set to travel in May 2015 to Syria and fight
for Islamic State, officials said.

Agencies honored included the FBI, United States Attorney's Office, Central
District of California and the Orange County Intelligence Assessment Center.



LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            January 24, 2017 Tuesday

Soulja Boy charged with felony weapons possession

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words

ABSTRACT

Rapper Soulja Boy has pleaded not guilty to felony weapons violations stemming
from a police search of his Los Angeles home last month that found an assault
weapon and a stolen police handgun

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Los Angeles prosecutors on Monday charged Soulja Boy with felony
weapons violations stemming from a police search of his home last month that
found an assault weapon and a stolen police handgun.

The Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office announced Monday that it had
charged the rapper, whose real name is DeAndre Cortez Way.

He pleaded not guilty Monday to two felony weapons possession charges and a
misdemeanor count of receiving stolen property. He faces up to four years in
prison if convicted.

Way was arrested last month by Los Angeles police. He was still on probation for
a previous firearms case and was not supposed to possess any weapons.

Prosecutors said a search of his home found a Mini Draco AR-IS assault weapon
and a Glock 21 handgun.

Authorities have said the handgun was reported stolen from a Huntington Beach,
California, police vehicle.

Soulja Boy is best known for his 2007 hit "Crank That (Soulja Boy)" and for his
recent appearances on VH1's "Love and Hip Hop."

Attempts to reach a representative for the rapper were not immediately
successful and there is no information on whether he has an attorney.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            October 13, 2017 Friday

Officers called to 'family dispute' as Weinstein sex scandal deepens

BYLINE: By Ellie Cullen, Press Association

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 811 words


OFFICERS were called after a "family dispute" at the home of Harvey Weinstein's
daughter as the scandal surrounding the disgraced Hollywood movie mogul
continued.

The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) confirmed it was called to reports of a
"disturbance" at the house but said no crime had been committed. Weinstein was
not there when officers arrived.

An LAPD spokesman said: "At 10.37am Los Angeles Police Department officers
responded to the 500 block of North Kilkea Drive at the house of Harvey
Weinstein's daughter and were there for a disturbance call.

"Officers arrived and conducted an investigation. It was revealed that there was
no crime and it was a family dispute. Officers then left the scene."

The incident follows a string of sexual harassment allegations being levelled
against Weinstein from women who worked with him.

British actress and supermodel Cara Delevingne was the latest star to speak out
and claimed Weinstein made advances towards her in a hotel room after asking her
to kiss another woman.

In a statement posted on Instagram she said she was left feeling "very powerless
and scared" when he invited her to his hotel room.

She said: "I was so hesitant about speaking out... I didn't want to hurt his
family. I felt guilty as if I did something wrong.

"I was also terrified that this sort of thing had happened to so many women I
know but no-one had said anything because of fear."

Spectre actress Lea Seydoux also joined the ranks of Harvey Weinstein's
accusers, saying she had to defend herself after the director allegedly jumped
on her and tried to kiss her.

The French actress, who won the Palme d'Or at Cannes for Blue Is The Warmest
Colour, said the movie mogul stared at her "as if I was a piece of meat".

Writing in the Guardian newspaper, she said: "We were talking on the sofa when
he suddenly jumped on me and tried to kiss me. I had to defend myself.

"He's big and fat, so I had to be forceful to resist him.

"I left his room, thoroughly disgusted. I wasn't afraid of him, though. Because
I knew what kind of man he was all along."

On Tuesday, Weinstein was accused of rape by three women - claims Weinstein
"unequivocally denies" - and his British wife Georgina Chapman announced she was
leaving him.

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which hosts the Oscars,
described the sexual abuse allegations against Weinstein as "repugnant" and
"abhorrent" and said on Wednesday that it would be holding a meeting tomorrow to
discuss any action to be taken.

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta) also announced it had
suspended his membership, effective immediately.

Rose McGowan, another accuser, called for the board of the Weinstein Company to
be dissolved following the allegations against its co-founder.

The actress, 44, tweeted a link to the campaign on website http://ipetitions.com
and said: "Join me in supporting this important cause at iPetitions. DISSOLVE
THE BOARD."

Over 10,000 signatures had been added to the petition by yesterday. Meanwhile,
stars across Hollywood have continued to condemn Weinstein's behaviour.

Ewan McGregor said Weinstein was a "bully", Matt Damon said he had been left
"absolutely sick to my stomach", while Ben Affleck added he was "saddened and
angry that a man who I worked with used his position of power to intimidate,
sexually harass and manipulate many women over decades". Prime Minister Theresa
May also spoke out about the scandal on Wednesday.

She said the reports were "deeply concerning" as senior politicians called for
Weinstein to be stripped of his CBE.

Hollywood star Susan Sarandon has praised Delevingne for speaking out against
Weinstein.

Following her Instagram posts, Delevingne posted photographs of women she
admires in the film industry in support of the United Nations Girl Up campaign.

Sarandon, named as one of the models and actress's heroes, said: "I'm a huge fan
of your spirit, talent and potential and now your bravery for speaking out.

"Next time anything bad happens, I got your back."

Actress Reese Witherspoon, who was also named as one of Delevingne's  heroes,
wrote: "Love you, my fellow warrior."

Delevingne posted two lengthy Instagram posts about her alleged encounter with
film executive Weinstein. In the first she said she burst into song out of
nervousness.

She said she was given the role in the film she wanted but "always thought that
he gave it to me because of what happened".

She continued: "Since then I felt awful that I did the movie. I felt like I
didn't deserve the part."

A second post contained the quote "The devil whispered in my ear, 'you're not
strong enough to withstand the storm'. Today I whispered in the devils ear, 'I
am the storm'".

She added: "I want women and girls to know that being harassed or abused or
raped is never their fault and not talking about it will always cause more
damage than speaking the truth."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2017 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      March 16, 2017 Thursday 8:42 PM GMT

Former Power Rangers star pleads guilty to killing roommate with sword

BYLINE: Patrick Grafton-Green

SECTION: WORLD; Version:2

LENGTH: 193 words


A former Power Rangers star has pleaded guilty to killing his roommate with a
sword.

Ricardo Medina, 38, played the Red Wild Force Power Ranger in 2002 and starred
in Power Rangers Samurai in 2011.

The Californian-born actor pleaded guilty on Thursday to stabbing his roommate
to death, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office announced.

Medina, from Los Angeles, entered the plea to one felony count of voluntary
manslaughter and admitted an allegation of using a sword in the killing.

The crime took place on January 31, 2015 when the defendant and victim Josh
Sutter, 36, who lived together, got into an argument over Medina's girlfriend.

Ricardo Medina pleaded guilty to killing his flatmate (Getty Images)

The argument turned physical and Medina fatally stabbed Sutter multiple times
with a sword.

Deputy District Attorney Tannaz Mokayef with the Major Crimes Division said
sentencing is scheduled for March 30 at the Los Angeles County Superior Court
and Medina faces six years in state prison.

Power Rangers Samurai, which was on screens from 2011 to 2012, was his last
listed acting job.

He has also appeared in an episode of ER and one of CSI: Miami.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2017 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

21 arrested as crackdown targets violent MS-13 gang;
Crime: Three-year-investigation culminates in sweep; warrants allege murder,
other offenses

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 520 words


LOS ANGELES >> Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of
the violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday
in the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.

The 21 suspects arrested Wednesday were among 44 defendants named in a sweeping
anti-racketeering indictment, some of whom are already in jail, according to the
U.S. attorney's office.

The massive sweep capped a nearly three-year investigation involving federal,
state and local law enforcement authorities.

"These cases constitute the largest crackdown of MS-13 ever conducted in Los
Angeles," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown at a

news conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the arrests.

She added that more than half of the suspects named in the indictment were in
the country illegally, but U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement was not
involved in the investigation.

"This has nothing to do with their immigration status," said Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck as he joined Brown and other members of the law enforcement
community. "This has to do with their criminal status. I will add that many of
the witnesses that allowed us to do this by their statements also have
immigration issues."

Those arrested by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs include the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region, authorities said.

The high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto MS-13 leadership council, a
committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the top
role in light of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement, authorities said.

The indictment charges three MS-13 members for killings they are accused of
committing in connection with the gang's activities.

One suspect, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, 23, also known as "Little Boy," faces
a violent crime in aid of racketeering - or VICAR - murder charge for allegedly
fatally shooting an innocent bystanderon Aug. 15, 2015, inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue, officials said. A friend of the victim was also stabbed during the
attack.

Two other suspected MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, 39, known as
"Blacky," and Joffri Molina, 24, known as "Espia" - are also charged with
murder.

Rivas is charged with murder in the death a man on Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip
mall in Pacoima. Molina is charged with murder in the death of a man on Sept.
27, 2015, on a street in North Hollywood.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Brown said. "With thousands of members here in the Southland,
the gang's power is widespread, power which it maintains with severe acts of
violence."

The three people facing murder charges could face the death penalty if
convicted, authorities said.

Beck said there were 800 documented MS-13 members in L.A.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

Swim coach from Whittier denies child molestation charges

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 276 words

ABSTRACT

LOS ANGELES >> A Whittier man a denied charges related to the alleged repeated
molestation of a 7-year-old girl who was a student at the Commerce aquatics
center where he worked as a swim coach.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A Whittier man denied charges related to the alleged repeated
molestation of a 7-year-old girl who was a student at the Commerce aquatics
center where he worked as a swim coach.

Steven Matthew Garcia pleaded not guilty tosix felony counts of committing a
lewd act upon a child, Los Angeles County District attorney's officials said. He
was ordered back to Los Angeles Superior Court on Feb. 1 for a preliminary
hearing setting.

Garcia is accused of fondling a 7-year-old student at the center on multiple
occasions in recent months while he worked as a lifeguard and swimming
instructor atBrenda Villa Aquatic Centerin Commerce, according to Deputy Juanita
Navarro-Suarez of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

"Detectives conducting the investigation subsequently arrested Suspect Garcia, a
resident of Whittier, on Friday, Jan. 13, 2017, for multiple counts of lewd acts
and continuous sexual abuse of a minor," Navarro-Suarez said in a written
statement.

Prosecutors filed their case Wednesday.

Detectives from the sheriff's Special Victims Bureau reached out to the public
in search of additional information, or any possible additional victims of the
suspect, the deputy added.

Garcia is being held in lieu of $600,000 bail.

Anyone with information can reach the sheriff's Special Victims Bureau can be
reached at 877-710-5273.

Tips may also be submitted anonymously online toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

Swim coach from Whittier denies child molestation charges

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 276 words

ABSTRACT

LOS ANGELES >> A Whittier man a denied charges related to the alleged repeated
molestation of a 7-year-old girl who was a student at the Commerce aquatics
center where he worked as a swim coach.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A Whittier man denied charges related to the alleged repeated
molestation of a 7-year-old girl who was a student at the Commerce aquatics
center where he worked as a swim coach.

Steven Matthew Garcia pleaded not guilty tosix felony counts of committing a
lewd act upon a child, Los Angeles County District attorney's officials said. He
was ordered back to Los Angeles Superior Court on Feb. 1 for a preliminary
hearing setting.

Garcia is accused of fondling a 7-year-old student at the center on multiple
occasions in recent months while he worked as a lifeguard and swimming
instructor atBrenda Villa Aquatic Centerin Commerce, according to Deputy Juanita
Navarro-Suarez of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

"Detectives conducting the investigation subsequently arrested Suspect Garcia, a
resident of Whittier, on Friday, Jan. 13, 2017, for multiple counts of lewd acts
and continuous sexual abuse of a minor," Navarro-Suarez said in a written
statement.

Prosecutors filed their case Wednesday.

Detectives from the sheriff's Special Victims Bureau reached out to the public
in search of additional information, or any possible additional victims of the
suspect, the deputy added.

Garcia is being held in lieu of $600,000 bail.

Anyone with information can reach the sheriff's Special Victims Bureau can be
reached at 877-710-5273.

Tips may also be submitted anonymously online toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           September 5, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1016 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, Sept. 5, Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

           CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, sheriff.lacounty.gov.

Assault with a deadly weapon: Aug. 12, 1300 block of East Kramer Drive.

Assault with a deadly weapon: Aug. 18, 2700 block of East Carson Street.

Residential burglary: Aug. 17, 300 block of East 213th Street.

Residential burglary: Aug. 17, 21900 block of Moneta Avenue.

Residential burglary: Aug. 18, 800 block of East Realty Street.

Residential burglary: Aug. 20, 600 block of East Loyola Avenue.

Burglary: Aug. 19, 20500 block of South Main Street.

Grand theft: Aug. 19, 21600 block of Villa Pacifica Circle.

Grand theft: Aug. 19, Carson and Figueroa streets.

Grand theft: Aug. 19, 20700 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Stolen vehicles:

Aug. 17, 2600 block of East Del Amo Boulevard.

Aug. 19, 21900 block of South Moneta Avenue.

Aug. 19, 300 block of West Victoria Street.

Aug. 20, Cairo Street and Roblin Avenue.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, sheriff.lacounty.gov.

Attempted residential burglary: Aug. 19, 20700 block of South Vermont Avenue.

Burglary: Aug. 15, 1100 block of West Levinson Street.

Burglary: Aug. 17, 24500 block of South Normandie Avenue.

Burglary: Aug. 18, 1100 block of West Carson Street.

Stolen vehicles:

Aug. 17, 800 block of West 219th Street.

TORRANCE

Armed robbery: 2-2:10 a.m. Aug. 26, 18400 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. Some
people brandished guns, ordered the victim to the ground where they punched and
kicked him, and took a backpack.

Strong-arm robbery: 5:45-6 p.m. Aug. 26, 2000 block of Santa Fe Avenue. Someone
pushed the victims to the ground and took cellphones and money from their
pockets.

Residential burglary: 5:45 p.m. Aug. 26 to 12:15 a.m. Aug. 27, 1300 block of
Fonthill Avenue. A sliding-glass door was smashed. The location was ransacked.
Jewelry and electronics were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 10 p.m. Aug. 25 to 2 p.m. Aug. 26, 20700 block of Anza
Avenue. A backpack and a laptop computer were reported stolen from an unsecured
vehicle in an unsecured garage.

Residential burglary: 2:35-2:40 p.m. Aug. 25, 24200 block of Ward Street.
Someone knocked on the front door, proceeded to a rear yard, smashed a glass
door and fled when a resident inside yelled. No entry made; no loss reported.

Residential burglary: 1:47 p.m. Aug. 25, 2600 block of 163rd Street. A screen
was removed to enter. Jewelry and money were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 8:30 p.m. Aug. 24 to 6:30 a.m. Aug. 25, 600 block of Calle
Miramar. Bicycles were reported stolen from an open garage.

Residential burglary: 2:18 p.m. Aug. 22, 1900 block of 184th Street. Someone
removed a screen, attempted to force open a window and fled when a resident
opened the blinds. No entry made; no loss reported.

Residential burglary: 8 p.m. Aug. 20 to 3:30 p.m. Aug. 21, 100 block of Via
Sego. A bicycle was reported stolen from an unsecured garage.

Residential burglary: 8 p.m. Aug. 20 to 3:30 p.m. Aug. 21, 100 block of Via
Sego. A bicycle was reported stolen from an unsecured garage.

Attempted residential burglary: 1 p.m. Aug. 20, 600 block of Sartori Avenue. An
attempt was made to pry open a door. No entry made; no loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 10:30 a.m. Aug. 26 to 9:05 a.m. Aug. 28, 23400 block of
Madison Street. A door was pried open. A cabinet was pried open. Money was
reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 9:30 p.m. Aug. 20 to 7 a.m. Aug. 21, 3600 block of Torrance
Boulevard. A lock on a construction-site storage container was cut. Construction
tools, equipment and materials were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 5 p.m. Aug. 20 to 7 a.m. Aug. 21, 1800 block of 213th
Court. Surveillance cameras were reported stolen from a building's exterior.

Commercial burglary: 3 p.m. Aug. 20 to 4:20 a.m. Aug. 21, 3700 block of 190th
Street. A window was smashed. Money was reported stolen.

Theft: 4 p.m. Aug. 26 to 9:30 a.m. Aug. 28, 2400 block of 166th Place. A
catalytic converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 11:46 a.m. Aug. 26, 3200 block of 185th Street. Unattended keys were
reported stolen from a fence.

Theft: 10 a.m. Aug. 26 to 9 a.m. Aug. 28, 18500 block of Amie Avenue. A
catalytic converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 6:30-7 p.m. Aug. 25, 3500 block of Carson Street. An unattended purse was
reported stolen from a rack.

Theft: 11 p.m. Aug. 24 to 8 a.m. Aug. 25, 200 block of Calle Miramar. Bicycles
were reported stolen from a carport.

Theft: 6 p.m. Aug. 24 to 8:30 a.m. Aug. 25, 18800 block of Yukon Avenue. A
catalytic converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 6 p.m. Aug. 24 to 8 a.m. Aug. 25, 4100 block of 175th Place. A catalytic
converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 3:30 p.m. Aug. 24 to 7 a.m. Aug. 25, 17800 block of Osage Avenue. A
catalytic converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 9 p.m. Aug. 22 to 6:15 a.m. Aug. 23, 4700 block of 191st Street. A
catalytic converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 12:31-1:35 p.m. Aug. 22, 21200 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A wallet was
reported stolen at the victim dined.

Theft: 10:45-11:04 p.m. Aug. 21, 20500 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. An
unattended purse was reported stolen.

Theft: 9 p.m. Aug. 20 to 1 p.m. Aug. 22, 300 block of Paseo de la Playa. A
storage lock was cut. Bicycles were reported stolen.

Theft: 3:20-3:30 p.m. Aug. 20, 4200 block of Pacific Coast Highway. A wallet was
reported stolen from the victim's purse as she shopped.

Stolen vehicles:

9:59 p.m. Aug. 26, 20900 block of Earl Street. 2008 Volkswagen Passat.

5 p.m. Aug. 26 to 2:02 p.m. Aug. 27, 20400 block of Anza Avenue. 2014 Nissan
Frontier.

12:45-6:07 a.m. Aug. 25, 18300 block of Taylor Court. 2017 Toyota Rav4.

9:30 p.m. Aug. 22 to 8 a.m. Aug. 23, 16700 block of Patronella Avenue. 1997
Honda Accord.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

Washington: ATF Special Agent Honored for Combating Hate & Bigotry by
Anti-Defamation League

LENGTH: 774  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco has issued the following news release:



 The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) conferred the "Helene & Joseph Sherwood Family
Prize for Combating Hate" to three individuals and two law enforcement groups at
an awards ceremony today at the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles.





 The Helene and Joseph Sherwood Prize for Combating Hate recognizes law
enforcement activities during the past two calendar years that demonstrate
relentless dedication to containing and minimizing the prevalence and severity
of hate motivated behavior perpetrated in their communities, and performed with
professionalism, effectiveness and visibility.



 "In the 21 years this prize has been conferred, it has become one of the most
prestigious awards in the law enforcement community," said Chief Rob Handy of
Huntington Beach Police Department, Chair of the Sherwood Prize Selection
Committee.



 "This year's honorees have made creative and effective contributions to the
fight against hate," said Amanda Susskind, Director of ADL's Pacific Southwest
Region.  "Whether they do so by fighting hate-motivated street gangs, monitoring
radicalized terrorist groups, or standing up for the most vulnerable in our
society, they are each making a tangible difference in the security of our
communities."



 ADL will honor Special Agent Alan Hughes as part of the 2017 Group Honorees for
his work in the San Fernando Valley Peckerwoods takedown. Hughes was part of a
task force including personnel from the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office and
the Los Angeles Police Department Major Crimes Division who went above, and
beyond, in their efforts to combat hate.



 Using a holistic approach, ATF, LAPD and LA prosecutors were able to uncover
and remove a stronghold of San Fernando Valley (SFV) Peckerwoods, a known white
supremacist gang accused of involvement in drug and weapons trafficking,
identity theft and other crimes.  This case is significant as activities of hate
groups in Southern California and nationwide have become an increasing concern
in the wake of reported surges in bias incidents and crimes.



 In one incident, a firearm was purchased from Erik Cutshaw, of Canoga Park, a
known associate of the SFV Peckerwoods gang. Cutshaw pleaded to 18 months
incarceration for a felon in possession.



 Late last year, Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer took a series of actions
against Cutshaw's residence and two other SFV Peckerwoods residences. The
locations were alleged bases of operations for SFV Peckerwoods criminal
activity, including illegal gun and drug sales, as well as places to make pipe
bombs, store stolen property, and recruit and train associates in counterfeit
and identity theft. One of the residences was informally abated and two are the
subjects of lawsuits.



 The honorees were selected from many nominations received from throughout
Southern California by the distinguished Sherwood Prize Selection Committee:
Chair, Chief Rob Handy, Huntington Beach Police Department; Chief Jarrod
Burguan, San Bernardino Police Department; Sheriff Geoff Dean, Ventura County
Sheriff's Department; Assistant Director in Charge Deirdre Fike, FBI, Los
Angeles; Assistant Chief Beatrice Girmala, Los Angeles Police Department;
Sheriff William D. Gore, San Diego County Sheriff's Department; Chief Mike
Hamel, Irvine Police Department; Special Agent in Charge Eric Harden, ATF, Los
Angeles; Sheriff Sandra Hutchens, Orange County Sheriff's Department; Chief Lori
Luhnow, Santa Barbara Police Department; Chief Lyle Martin, Bakersfield Police
Department; Sheriff Jim McDonnell, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department;
Chief Chris O'Quinn, California Highway Patrol, Southern Division;  Sheriff Stan
Sniff, Riverside County Sheriff's Department.



 The Sherwood Prize was created in 1996 by Joe and Helene Sherwood, founders of
family owned and operated Daniel's Jewelers, to recognize those in the law
enforcement community that go above and beyond their job descriptions in
combating extremism, bigotry, and hatred.



 The Helene and Joseph Sherwood Family Prize recognizes law enforcement
officers, units, agencies or programs that:



     Demonstrate an outstanding commitment to combating extremism, bigotry and
hatred by performing acts outside the normal scope of duties.

     Make an impact on victims of hate crimes or bias-motivated incidents.

     Provide opportunities for education to reduce hate crimes and bias
motivated activity.

     Use innovative approaches to enforce or prosecute hate crime laws.

     Make a significant difference in their community and served as a role model
for his or her agency.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday

Spit on sidewalk leads to arrest in Los Angeles killings

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 590 words



HIGHLIGHT: The technique has raised ethical issues in the forensics community.


By MICHAEL BALSAMO

LOS ANGELES (AP) - Authorities trailing a man suspected of sexually assaulting
and killing two young women who disappeared from their Los Angeles neighborhoods
used his DNA to tie him to the 2011 crimes after he spit on a sidewalk.

Geovanni Borjas, 32, was identified as a suspect in the slayings of Michelle
Lozano, 17, and Bree'Anna Guzman, 22, after investigators used a controversial
DNA testing technique known as familial DNA testing, Los Angeles Police Chief
Charlie Beck said.

The technique enabled investigators to compare forensic evidence from the
victims to law enforcement databases to identify likely relatives of the person
who may have committed the crime. The search resulted in a match to Borjas'
father, whose DNA was on file from a prior arrest, Beck said.

Detectives began following Borjas and collected his DNA surreptitiously after he
spit on a sidewalk, the chief said. That sample matched the DNA that was
collected from the crime scenes and Borjas was arrested Thursday, he said.

Borjas was charged Tuesday with two counts each of murder and forcible rape, and
one count of kidnapping and was scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday afternoon. A
call placed to a number listed for Borjas in public records went unanswered
Tuesday, and it was not immediately clear if he had an attorney who could
comment on the allegations.

Lozano was found dead April 25, 2011, a day after she disappeared from the
Lincoln Heights neighborhood. Her body was found wrapped in plastic bags and
stuffed inside a container that was dumped in the brush along Interstate 5,
police said. An autopsy found she had been strangled.

"Michelle was murdered, she was sexually assaulted and she was discarded," Beck
said. "These two murders were horrific."

Borjas is also charged with kidnapping, sexually assaulting and killing Guzman,
who had disappeared from the Boyle Heights neighborhood on Dec. 26, 2011.
Guzman, who had dreamed of becoming a pastry chef, told family members she was
going to a nearby pharmacy to buy cough drops but never returned. Her body was
found a month later along a ramp leading to State Route 2.

Detectives have said forensic evidence linked the two slayings, but have
declined to provide specific details. Investigators are still trying to
determine if Borjas knew the two victims, but he hasn't cooperated with
detectives, Beck said.

Several members of Guzman's family attended the police news conference Tuesday
afternoon. Her father broke down in tears as he described his daughter's life.
He said his daughter did not know Borjas.

"He's in jail and he's never going to leave," Guzman's father, Richard Duran,
said in Spanish. "That gives me a lot of happiness. I have closure now."

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said investigators had exhausted every
lead in the case and credited the familial DNA testing with giving detectives
the break they needed to finally solve the case. The technique has raised
ethical issues in the forensics community, but law enforcement officials have
argued the testing can provide investigators with valuable leads.

It has been used only a handful of times in Los Angeles and led to the arrest of
Lonnie Franklin Jr. in the Grim Sleeper serial killings, which spanned from 1985
to 2007. Sheriff's officials also used it earlier this year to solve the
decades-old killing of the ex-wife of Righteous Brothers singer Bill Medley.

___

Associated Press writer Amanda Lee Myers contributed to this report.

___

Follow Michael Balsamo on Twitter at http://twitter.com/MikeBalsamo1 .

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geovanni Borjas, 32. (Los Angeles Police Department via AP)
Bree'Anna Guzman and Michelle Lozano. (FBI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

Los Angeles seeks sanctuary from rule of law

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words


"Exactly what is a sanctuary city?"

That's what L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti and Los Angeles Police Department Chief
Charlie Beck want to know.

"We're looking for clarification," Chief Beck said.

The mayor and chief went to Washington last week to knock on the door of
President Trump's director of Homeland Security, John F. Kelly. After the
closed-door meeting, Dave Lapan, a spokesman for Homeland Security, said the
department is "working on a definition" but doesn't have a timeline.

This is wrong.

The mayor and chief are busy men. They can't hang around Washington waiting for
the feds to get their act together. So, to speed things along, I'd like to offer
the following definition of a sanctuary city:

"Sanctuary City noun 1. See Los Angeles."

The Trump administration has shoved the ultimate back-burner issue onto the
front burner. At long last we're having an honest debate about our broken
borders rather than the one-sided demagoguing that has maligned anyone opposed
to open borders as a racist and xenophobe.

Ironically, had we been allowed to have this conver

sation before the issue reached critical mass, Donald Trump would still be a
reality TV goofball rather than a presidential goofball.

In broad terms, a sanctuary city is a city that does not care if a resident is
in the country illegally.

But Los Angeles went considerably past simple indifference. Our elected
officials, including the mayor, the City Council, the city attorney, our
representatives in Sacramento and Washington have all actively conspired to
subvert any attempt by the federal government to enforce our immigration laws.
They have passed laws, created policies and filed lawsuits in an effort to
further embed our illegal immigrant population into society.

Special Order 40, the infamous 1979 internal LAPD directive from then Chief
Daryl Gates, is the granddaddy of sanctuary city "laws" in America. I put "laws"
in quotes because Special Order 40 is not actually a law. It's a department
policy instructing officers not to initiate a stop based on suspicion of an
immigration violation.

Order 40 was created with the best of intentions. The hope was, if we took
deportation off the table, victims of crime and witnesses to crimes would not
fear going to the police.

That's not what happened.

Word spread quickly. Los Angeles became the destination for illegal immigrants.
Why not? The welcome mat was out.

L.A.'s illegal community mushroomed, and so did crime. In the decade before
Special Order 40, from 1970 to 1979, Los Angeles experienced 4,950 homicides. In
1992 alone, 13 years after Special Order 40 was supposed to make L.A. safer,
2,589 were murdered. Chief Beck still claims Special Order 40 makes L.A. safer.
Donald Trump is not the only one spewing "alternative facts."

As illegal immigrants spread across the land, local officials in other cities
looked to see how Los Angeles handled the problem. Sadly, they doubled-down on
our bad bet. They created their own versions of Special Order 40, further
entrenching a vulnerable, exploitable and needy population into their
communities while importing poverty, lowering the wages of working people and
sending crime rates through the roof.

But Los Angeles wasn't happy with just Special Order 40. Over the years our
various mayors and City Council members have labored to eliminate any
distinction between legal immigrants and illegal immigrants with a big assist
from our local news media, who similarly make no distinctions.

Here's a brief sampling of how local politicians poured gas on the fire:

March 21, 2013, Mayor Eric Garcetti reactivated the Office of Immigrant Affairs,
ostensibly to make the transition to a new life in America easier for
immigrants. The office not only makes no distinction between legal and illegal
immigrants, it openly advocates for legislative action at the state and national
level to erase as many distinctions as possible.

For example, SB 60, Councilman Gil Cedillo's dream-come- true, granted driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants. 605,000 were issued. Yet L.A. is still the
hit-and-run capital of America. Sandra Duran was struck and killed (allegedly)
by a five-time deportee and convicted felon, Estuardo Alvarado, simply the
latest documented case of a horrible crime committed by an undocumented
immigrant.

Los Angeles led the charge to OK major banks accepting Matricula Consular cards
to open accounts and receive home mortgages. You can't get any more embedded in
a community than that.

On July 7, 2014, Mayor Garcetti announced LAPD would not honor federal
immigration requests to detain inmates who might be deportable unless a federal
judge vetted the request. I wonder how Sandra Duran's family feels about that?

SB 1159 granted licenses to ply a trade in California regardless of immigration
status, further embedding our enormous illegal population and encouraging more
to come while forcing hairdressers and other licensed professionals into stiffer
competition resulting in lower wages.

Kevin de Leon, the president pro-tem of the California State Senate, announced
to the world "half my family is in the country illegally" and then confessed
they had fake (stolen?) Social Security cards and other fraudulent forms of ID.
Not that identity theft is problem, right? De Leon is the author of SB 54, a
bill that would make all of California an official sanctuary for illegal
immigrants.

Throw in Section 8 housing, Aid to Families With Dependant Children, in-state
tuition at the UC system, a push for universal health insurance regardless of
immigration status, and a cornucopia of other perks and benefits, and it's not
hard to figure out why so many have chosen to come here by any means necessary.

If the mayor and chief of police are still unclear about the definition of a
"sanctuary city," I can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

Doug McIntyre's column appears Sundays. Hear him weekdays 5-10 a.m. on KABC AM
(790). He can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             May 11, 2017 Thursday

Body recovered from riverbed identified Sheriff's car stolen in Alhambra found
Pet owners cautioned after bear kills collie

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 578 words

ABSTRACT

crime briefs from the San Gabriel Valley and Whittier Daily News

FULL TEXT

Authorities have identified a 23-year-old man whose body was found floating in
the San Gabriel River over the weekend.

The body of Alex Giovanne Castillo was discovered about 1:15 p.m. on Sunday,
floating face-down in the river nearPeck Road and Durfee Avenue, according to Ed
Winter, assistant chief of operations at the Los Angeles County Department of
Medical Examiner-Coroner. He was believed to be transient.

The man's cause of death was yet to be determined through an autopsy, Winter
said.

A man walking his dog first spotted the body, according to Los Angeles County
sheriff's Sgt. David Kearney.

The body was "moderately" decomposed, indicating a relatively recent death,
officials said.

No further details were available.

Anyone with information can reach the sheriff's Temple Station at 626-285-7171.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

Officers on Wednesday found astolen Los Angeles County Sheriff's carin a grocery
store parking lot and a possible suspect snoozing in the back seat.

The man found sleeping in the vehicle had not been arrested Wednesday afternoon
as detectives continued investigating whether he had stolen the car, or merely
climbed into it to keep warm overnight, Deputy Ryan Rouzan of the sheriff's
Information Bureau said.

Officers on patrol found the car around 5:20 a.m.

Pasadena Police Sgt. Richard Padilla said their automated license plate reader
got a hit and verified that the Dodge Charger in the Vons parking lot at 155 W.
California Blvd. was stolen.

"There was someone sleeping in the back seat," Padilla said. Officers detained
the man.

The man was turned over to the Taskforce for Regional Auto Theft Prevention,
which is handling the investigation into the stolen car.

Officials said the car did not appear to be damaged and no items appeared to be
missing.

The 2016 Charger was stolen Sunday morning from a Dodge dealership at 1100 W.
Main St. in Alhambra. Alhambra police said surveillance video showed a man
walked onto the service area, approached the car and drove away with it.

Officials in La Verne reminded residents to be aware of their forest-dwelling
neighbors after a bear attacked and killed a pet collie in a residential
neighborhood on Wednesday morning.

The attack took place about 3:30 a.m. in the5400 block of Edgewood Drive, La
Verne police officials said in a written statement.

A resident called police to report hearing suspicious noises coming from the
garage area of the home, police said.

"Upon arriving at the location, officers observed a large dog with injuries
lying on the floor of the garage," according to the statement.

Officers rushed the badly injured dog to a local animal hospital.

"Hospital staff treated the injuries, which they determined to be consistent
with a bear attack," according to the statement. "However, the dog succumbed to
said injuries."

Police notified the California Department of Fish and Game of the incident,
officials said.

"Residents living near the foothills are reminded that it is not uncommon for
wildlife to enter residential neighborhoods," the statement added. "We ask that
you be vigilant and take precautions so as not to attract bears and other
wildlife.

Officials urged residents took check outinformation on discouraging bear
encounters and tips on what to do if encountering a bear, as well as other
wildlife, onlineatwww.wildlife.ca.gov.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 7, 2017 Tuesday

Captain: Crime stats deceptive;
Valley LAPD veteran says department underreports serious cases

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words

ABSTRACT

In her claim against the city, Capt. Lillian Carranza said the underreporting
was widespread in the department, ranging from the LAPD's Foothill and Mission
divisions to its Central and Pacific divisions.

FULL TEXT

A San Fernando Valley Los Angeles police captain Monday publicly detailed what
she alleges is the department's systematic pattern of underreporting crime
statistics.

Los Angeles Police Department Capt. Lillian Carranza, assigned to the Van Nuys
station, said she discovered errors in categorizing violent crimes that were
never fixed.

Ignoring the errors resulted in serious cases being underreported, which can
have a significant effect on how police plan and pay for their strategies to
fight crime.

"As a citizen, it gives you a false sense of security that you are safe when in
fact that might not be the case," Carranza, a 28-year LAPD veteran, said at an
afternoon news conference Monday at her attorney's office in Beverly Hills. "It
also affects the way we deploy resources, the support we get from federal
grants, and in my case and in my officers' case, who gets the

support of discretionary resources and who doesn't."

In her government claim against the city, a precursor to a lawsuit, Carranza
said she found underreporting in a number of stations she audited, ranging from
the LAPD's Foothill and Mission divisions to its Central and Pacific divisions.

For the divisions she audited, Carranza found that LAPD was underreporting
violent crime for 2016 by about 10 percent, she said.

Carranza argued that certain staff members may have falsified information -
engaging in "cooking of the books" - in order to get promotions, accolades and
increased responsibility.

"You make it look like you're doing a great job, and the next thing you know,
you are being promoted," said Carranza, who noted she has been raising the issue
with her superiors since 2014.

When officers make errors on crime reports, the mistakes are supposed to be
corrected once they reach a watch commander, a records clerk or a detective,
Carranza explained.

However, in some cases, such errors were not recognized or fixed, she said.
Someone, for example, could be attacked with a firearm and the incident would be
incorrectly coded as a simple assault, which would not get counted in the city's
serious violent crime statistics, rather than an aggravated assault.

She said after complaining of the errors to command staff, no action was taken.
In fact, she was ordered to "stand down," according to the claim.

Carranza argued that she was retaliated against for bringing up the issue by not
being promoted to the rank of commander and by not receiving adequate resources
for her division.

The captain said she has evidence to back up her claims, but she and her
attorney declined to release it. Her attorney, Gregory Smith, said the
information might be considered confidential by the department.

The department said it could not comment on pending litigation.

But in a statement, department officials appeared to stand by the numbers,
saying the agency is a model of accuracy across the country and has a "robust"
unit devoted to vetting its statistics. The civilian Police Commission also
reviews the numbers, the statement said.

"The LAPD has a robust system of training, inspection, accountability and
auditing of crime classifications to ensure that crime reports are accurately
reported to the FBI under the National Uniform Crime Reporting System," the
statement said.

The statement said the department established its Data Integrity Unit, which is
charged with ongoing inspections, training officers and securing tools to ensure
crime statistics are accurate.

"When errors are found, records are corrected and additional training and other
corrective action is taken," the statement said.

In her claim, Carranza said she was consistently rebuffed by her supervisors
until 2016, despite her decision to file a report with the Office of the
Inspector General, alleging that crime stats for 2016 were being "intentionally
underreported" by command officers.

A spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Protective League, the union which
represents some 9,800 LAPD officers up to the rank of lieutenant, said recent
instances of violent crime underreporting indicate a breakdown within the
department's systems. They also demonstrate a lack of respect for the tough
decisions the mayor and City Council must make to keep neighborhoods safe.

False data calls into question the legitimacy of crime-fighting initiatives,
LAPPL spokesman Tom Saggau said in the statement.

"This recent allegation of crime underreporting in Los Angeles should be taken
very seriously and if found to be true, then swift action must be taken to
remedy this unacceptable situation, not just another round of lip service," he
added.

A 2015 audit by an independent watchdog of the department found that a
"significant number" of crimes that were categorized as simple assaults from
2008-2014 were actually aggravated assaults and should have been included as
part of the violent crime statistics that are submitted to the FBI and disclosed
to the public.

The Office of the Inspector General found that if the crimes had been classified
correctly during those seven years, the rate of aggravated assaults reported to
the FBI and the public would have been an average of 36 percent higher.

The department misclassified an average of 3,700 aggravated assaults as less
severe crimes in each of the seven years, the audit found, amounting to a total
of more than 25,000 crimes improperly categorized.

The inspector general estimated 9 percent of the crimes that were categorized as
simple assaults should have been classified as aggravated assaults. Simple
assaults are not included in reports to the FBI or disclosed to the public.

Meanwhile, a few other crimes were also improperly categorized as kidnappings,
sexual assaults or other types of less severe crimes but should have been logged
as aggravated assaults, the audit found.

The inspector general's office based its estimates on a sampling of 3,856
crimes.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            March 22, 2017 Wednesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 370 words

ABSTRACT

Daily Breeze letters for Wednesday, March 22

FULL TEXT

Reversing rise in crime takes action, not words

Re "What is causing the upticks in crime?" (Question of the Week, March 14):

We're wondering why crime goes up? The combination of releasing prisoners early
and this state becoming so expensive. Just wait until minimum wage becomes $15
an hour.

When somebody died at the hand of an undocumented immigrant, Los Angeles Mayor
Eric Garcetti said he can "understand the anger and grief" - but that's it. As a
typical politician, he knows how to say it but doesn't know how to do it.

Maybe the people of California should put their attention to Sacramento rather
than blaming everything on Washington, D.C. Maybe something will happen. Good
luck with that!

- Inge Forman, Torrance

The will of the people?

Re "'Sanctuary' debate broadening" (March 20):

Aren't politicians elected to do the will of the people who elected them? Then
why all the fuss over deporting illegal aliens? Illegal aliens don't vote, or at
least aren't supposed to.

The bill that would protect these people also protects criminals.

Elected representatives risk losing federal benefits if this bill is passed,
which would hurt the people who elected them. So why don't they just let the
federal government enforce the law and they do the job they were elected to do -
which doesn't include protecting illegal aliens from the law of the land.

- Kenneth M. Bezich, San Pedro

A sanctuary compromise

Re "It's time for sane compromise on sanctuary city policies" (Thomas Elias,
March 21):

Not very often do I find myself in agreement with Thomas Elias, but this time I
agree 100 percent.

I have on other sites, like Facebook, made the same arguments only to be
attacked with remarks like: "What about our domestic murderers? We have more
white people committing crimethan brown people."That is true, but not relevant
in this context.

I applaud Mr. Elias for his insight on this matter.

- Sven Albrecht, Torrance

Toward cleaner air

I strongly support electric vehicles. It makes sense as far as improving the air
quality in the environment is concerned.

Air pollution causes a lot of health problems and it must be handled, the sooner
the better.

- Pollyana Harmon, Torrance

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 26, 2017 Thursday

Police, county sheriffs at odds with new law

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 458 words


In the face of President Donald Trump's orderto pull federal dollarsfrom
so-called "sanctuary cities," Southern California law enforcement officials from
L.A. to the Inland Empire on Wednesday stuck to walking a fine line with
hands-off approaches in their treatment of undocumented immigrants.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said his department will follow its
decades-old policy of keeping officers focused on local crimes, leaving federal
violations such as entering the country illegally in the hands of immigration
officials.

Beck said the city policy - known as "Special Order 40" - will remain in place
despite an executive order signed Wednesday by Trump that calls for federal
funding to be taken away from municipalities operating as "sanctuary cities."

Beck said the department's policy has helped to keep the city safe by allowing
officers to win trust with residents, some of whom are undocumented.

"I've been policing this city for 40 years, and I don't know how much policing
experience the president has but I have quite a bit," Beck said. "And I believe
in the way that we police Los Angeles. I believe that when you build trust, you
build witnesses, you build people that cooperate with local law enforcement, and
you keep the city safer."

Issued in 1979 by then-Chief Daryl Gates, the Los Angeles Police Department's
policy bars officers from initiating police action to inquire about a person's
immigration status or arresting someone for violation of immigration laws.

The policy does require officers to notify immigration officials about any
arrests of people accused of several misdemeanors, a "high-grade misdemeanor" or
felony crime, or who have made repeat offenses.

Beck also said immigration violations are civil crimes, and police officers are
only interested in criminal offenses.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell released a statement declaring there
will not be a "change" in the department's policies, saying "Our priority
continues to be protecting our public."

The department's policy "clearly states that our deputies do not ask for one's
immigration status" and that "immigration enforcement remains a federal
responsibility," McDonnell said.

The Sheriff's Department also must follow the California Trust Act, signed in
2014, that limits a local agency's ability to cooperate with federal officials
under Secure Communities. This federal program allows the Department of Homeland
Security to monitor the immigration status of detainees and to request that
those arrested be kept in detention longer.

McDonnell said they will also follow the federal Truth Act that went into effect
this year, which requires authorities to inform detainees in writing of their
right to refuse to be interviewed by ICE officials.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 26, 2017 Thursday

Police, county sheriffs at odds with new law

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 458 words


In the face of President Donald Trump's orderto pull federal dollarsfrom
so-called "sanctuary cities," Southern California law enforcement officials from
L.A. to the Inland Empire on Wednesday stuck to walking a fine line with
hands-off approaches in their treatment of undocumented immigrants.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said his department will follow its
decades-old policy of keeping officers focused on local crimes, leaving federal
violations such as entering the country illegally in the hands of immigration
officials.

Beck said the city policy - known as "Special Order 40" - will remain in place
despite an executive order signed Wednesday by Trump that calls for federal
funding to be taken away from municipalities operating as "sanctuary cities."

Beck said the department's policy has helped to keep the city safe by allowing
officers to win trust with residents, some of whom are undocumented.

"I've been policing this city for 40 years, and I don't know how much policing
experience the president has but I have quite a bit," Beck said. "And I believe
in the way that we police Los Angeles. I believe that when you build trust, you
build witnesses, you build people that cooperate with local law enforcement, and
you keep the city safer."

Issued in 1979 by then-Chief Daryl Gates, the Los Angeles Police Department's
policy bars officers from initiating police action to inquire about a person's
immigration status or arresting someone for violation of immigration laws.

The policy does require officers to notify immigration officials about any
arrests of people accused of several misdemeanors, a "high-grade misdemeanor" or
felony crime, or who have made repeat offenses.

Beck also said immigration violations are civil crimes, and police officers are
only interested in criminal offenses.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell released a statement declaring there
will not be a "change" in the department's policies, saying "Our priority
continues to be protecting our public."

The department's policy "clearly states that our deputies do not ask for one's
immigration status" and that "immigration enforcement remains a federal
responsibility," McDonnell said.

The Sheriff's Department also must follow the California Trust Act, signed in
2014, that limits a local agency's ability to cooperate with federal officials
under Secure Communities. This federal program allows the Department of Homeland
Security to monitor the immigration status of detainees and to request that
those arrested be kept in detention longer.

McDonnell said they will also follow the federal Truth Act that went into effect
this year, which requires authorities to inform detainees in writing of their
right to refuse to be interviewed by ICE officials.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

Slain officer among Memorial honorees;
Keith Boyer, killed in line of duty in February, honored by county at event

BYLINE: Christopher Yee; cyee@scng.com @ChrisMYee on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 324 words


LOS ANGELES >> Slain Whittier police Officer Keith Boyer was one of six Los
Angeles County peace officers honored Wednesday at the 48th annual Los Angeles
County Peace Officers' Memorial.

With the six additions presented Wednesday, the new Memorial Wall at the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Eugene W. Biscailuz Regional Training
Center grew to 515 names of peace officers from across the county killed in
action as far back as the 1850s.

Boyer was the most recent officer killed to be honored at the ceremony. The
veteran Whittier police officer was slain in a shootout in February.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper spoke about Boyer at the ceremony.

"(Keith) was an intelligent, inspiring, compassionate person who provided
exceptional public service for nearly 30 years, and like those heroes on the
wall behind me, he will never be forgotten," Piper said.

The Whittier Police Department honored Boyer last week by memorializing him on
the Whittier Police Memorial statue in front of the police station.

Piper criticized state legislation - most notably AB 109 and Proposition 47 -
that he said allowed Boyer's alleged killer, Michael Christopher Mejia, 26, of
Los Angeles, to be on the street.

Adopted in 2011, AB 109 allows state prisoners up for parole as of Oct. 1, 2011,
to be eligible for post-release community supervision, and Prop. 47 reduces
several drug-related crimes from felonies to misdemeanors.

Boyer's alleged killer, Piper said, was free on post-release community
supervision and had been jailed six times since June 2016 for drug-related
crimes and held in county jail for 10 days each time, the maximum time allowed.

"It's a fallacy to believe our criminal justice reforms are serving the best
interests of anyone but the recycled criminal," Piper said. "This isn't about
locking people up. This is about policymakers addressing shortcomings and
failures of our current system and having the fortitude to do what's right."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             April 8, 2017 Saturday

Police warn residents of phony DWP worker Two men suspected of vehicle break-ins
Couple convicted in tax fraud case Downtown farmers market hours change

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words



Los Angeles police detectives in the Harbor Area are advising residents to be
alert for a man who posed as a Department of Water and Power employee to gain
access to a San Pedro house.

Although the man walked away when residents asked for his credentials, he
already was in their house, Los Angeles police Detective Robert Guevara said.

Police fear he could be attempting to commit a burglary.

A resident notified police when the man visited a house in the 1300 block of
West 14th Street on Monday. He said he was a DWP worker and needed to check the
water meter.

The residents allowed him to come inside, but he left when they asked for his
identification.

Guevara asked anyone who comes in contact with the man to call 9-1-1.

- Larry Altman

The men were arrested shortly after 9:15 p.m. Wednesday after a resident noticed
them in his driveway in the 1000 block of Via Fortuna and shined his flashlight
on them. The resident called police, who found them walking nearby.

Another resident soon reported that his vehicle had been burglarized.

Officers linked the men to that crime and arrested them on suspicion of
possession of stolen property and vehicle burglary. Their names were not made
available.

Police are investigating whether the men are connected to three reports of
thefts from unlocked vehicles in the area of Via Borica and Via Rivera in Palos
Verdes Estates, as well as similar thefts in Rancho Palos Verdes.

- Larry Altman

Sean David Morton, 58, and his wife, Melissa Ann Morton, 50, each were convicted
of one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States, two counts each of
filing false claims against the United States, and various counts of passing
false or fictitious financial instruments.

Sean Morton faces up to 650 years in prison when he is sentenced June 19;
Melissa Morton faces up to 625 years.

During their trial, prosecutors presented evidence showing the Mortons filed
federal income tax returns that falsely claimed they had income from various
banking institutions. The Mortons falsely reported large withholdings and
claimed they were owed refunds.

As a result, the IRS erroneously issued a refund of $480,323 to Sean Morton for
a 2008 income tax return.

When the IRS tried to collect the money, the Mortons thwarted their efforts with
false claims about their bank accounts, and presented bogus "coupons" and
"bonds" to pay off their debt.

- From staff reports

Hermosa Beach's Pier Plaza farmers market on Wednesdays now has later afternoon
hours, the Chamber of Commerce announced Friday.

The new hours, 1-6 p.m. on Wednesdays, will begin April 19.

The Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau began operating this market two
years ago, in addition to a longtime farmers market on Fridays near Clark Park.

The later hours are designed to attract more visitors on their way home from
work or after school.

- From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             April 11, 2017 Tuesday
                                National Edition

Hardboiled Hollywood; The Black Dahlia Murder Sparked Movies, Affected Public
Perceptions

BYLINE: Robert Fulford, National Post

SECTION: ARTS &; LIFE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 858  words


A 23-year-old woman from a small town in Massachusetts, mostly unknown until she
was dead, turned out to be a remarkably pervasive influence on the movies of
20th-century America. Her body was found on the outskirts of Los Angeles on
January 15, 1947, mutilated and cut in half. Unidentified at first, she was
found to be Elizabeth Short. Her mother called her a "moviestruck girl" who went
to California for an exciting life, perhaps in the movies. People always told
her she was beautiful.

In legend she's known as the Black Dahlia, a name given her by crime reporters,
perhaps a borrowing from a current mystery novel, The Blue Dahlia. She and her
murder became famous as a symbol of the newly crimeridden Los Angeles at its
worst, a dangerous place for women. "The girls are lonely," said a woman on the
police commission. "They come from small towns with not too much judgment and
they don't know what they're getting into."

Short's story and its implications for popular films dominate Hard-Boiled
Hollywood: Crime and Punishment in Postwar Los Angeles (University Of California
Press), by Jon Lewis. A professor of film studies at Oregon State University,
Lewis has written 11 books, including a study of Francis Coppola and an account
of how censorship saved the film industry.

He has a special interest in stories like the Black Dahlia, real events that
spark movies and go on to affect public perceptions. His accounts of the Black
Dahlia and other sensations of the film business demonstrate his talent for
research and his ability to pull together the scattered facts left behind by
moments in history.

Crime reporting was a highly competitive art in Los Angeles when the Black
Dahlia myth was constructed. For a month after Short's body was found, at least
one of the L.A. newspapers had a front-page story revealing fresh facts or
rumours about the case. This so excited the public that about 60 people turned
themselves in and confessed to the crime. Two dozen of them were convincing
enough to be investigated. For a while one suspect, though not one who
confessed, was the celebrated mobster, Bugsy Siegel. But the crime remained
unsolved, and still does. That's part of its allure for authors and filmmakers
who enjoy filling the gaps.

John Gregory Dunne's 1977 novel, True Confessions, clearly inspired by the Short
case, was adapted as a movie under the same name, with Robert De Niro and Robert
Duvall as two brothers, one a priest and the other a homicide detective. Like
many writers on Los Angeles, Dunne placed the Short murder in an elaborate
account of corruption, in this case the Roman Catholic church as well as the
police force and the city council.

James Ellroy's 1987 novel, The Black Dahlia, established his reputation and led
to three more novels, all of them portraying LA as a hotbed of political
corruption. It, too, became a film, made by Brian De Palma in 2006. A short
story by Joyce Carol Oates, Black Dahlia and White Rose, partly narrated by a
fictional version of Short herself, became the title story in a prize-winning
Oates collection. Three separate video games focus on the Black Dahlia killer.
In many crime novels and TV scripts we can sense echoes of Short's story and the
speculation surrounding it.

Los Angeles reporters loved to write about the improprieties of movie people
with what Lewis calls "a mix of condescension and self-righteous moralizing,"
the characteristic style of the era and our own. Even a celebrated fist-fight
gets half a dozen pages in Lewis's book, if a star is involved.

Franchot Tone was a suave leading man in many films of the 1930s, working
alongside Clark Gable and Charles Laughton - and Joan Crawford, Tone's first of
four wives, with whom he acted in seven movies. His appeal waned and in the
postwar years he had to get by with TV parts in Bonanza and The Twilight Zone,
or their B-movie equivalents. In 1962 many moviegoers could barely recognize him
when he gave a dazzling late-in-life performance as an ailing Rooseveltlike
president of the US in Otto Preminger's Advise and Consent.

In 1951 he was in love with Barbara Payton, a young actress whose best part was
in The Bride of the Gorilla. He somehow found himself squaring off with another
rival for her favours, Tom Neal, a much lesser actor but much better boxer. When
it was over Tone spent 18 hours unconscious in the hospital. His broken nose
needed surgery. He married Payton but divorced her when he realized she hadn't
given up Neal. A magazine called Vice Squad later ran a coverline, How Franchot
Tone's Ex-Wife Became a Common Prostitute. He died in 1968 and Wife I, Joan
Crawford, arranged for his ashes to be scattered in Ontario's Muskoka district,
where he spent happy vacation days in childhood.

Jon Lewis's range as a film scholar is vast. He's as interested in traditional
Hollywood's dislike for Sunset Boulevard as in the widespread suspicions about
the death of Marilyn Monroe. He leaves us with the conviction that the movie
business is even more complicated and dangerous than we ever suspected, but
never without great plots. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Elizabeth Short, the murdered actress known as the Black Dahlia. Her
death is unsolved to this day.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             June 7, 2017 Wednesday

Olympian Danny Harris charged with teen sex crimes in Southern California

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 486 words



HIGHLIGHT: Olympic silver medalist Danny Harris has been charged with contacting
a teenage girl to commit a sex crime while he was a Southern California high
school coach.


SAN GABRIEL - Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach and
1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday on suspicion of contacting a student for
the purpose of engaging in inappropriate contact with a student, officials said.

Danny Lee Harris, 51 of Pasadena, was arrested shortly after noon, according to
San Gabriel Police officials and Los Angeles County booking records.

He has been relieved of his duties with the San Gabriel Unified School District
as a coach since May 17, at the outset of the investigation, San Gabriel Police
Lt. Riki Nakamura said.

The walk-on assistant track and field coach won a silver medal in the 400-meter
hurdles during the 1984 Summer Olympic Games in Los Angeles, and also famously
ended the decade-long winning streak of Edwin Moses in 1987. He has been
profiled many times for his struggles to overcome adversity and addiction as he
rose to athletic fame, most recently in the 2016 documentary film "Crossing the
Line."

Harris was born in Torrance but grew up in Perris. He was a track standout at
Perris High School, specializing in hurdles.

Harris won three straight CIF Southern Section titles in the 300-meter hurdles
and two CIF-SS titles in the 110-meter hurdles. He capped his track career at
Perris by winning the 300 hurdles at the 1983 CIF State Championships. Harris
also was a star wide receiver on the school's football team.

Harris is accused of contacting a female student at the school with intent to
commit a sex crime, San Gabriel police officials said in a statement. The
communications were in an electronic format. Investigators declined to discuss
any additional specifics of the case.

"The police department has been working closely with the San Gabriel Unified
School District following a report of alleged inappropriate contacts between the
walk-on athletic coach and a district student," according to the police
statement.

The Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services was notified
of the investigation.

Police took Harris into custody without a struggle, Nakamura said.

No further details were released Friday. Investigators are continuing to seek
potential additional victims, Nakamura said.

"The school district and the police department are working together to ensure
the safety of students remains of utmost importance," the police statement said.
"We will continue to work closely together as this issue moves forward."

San Gabriel Unified School District officials were not available to comment on
Friday.

According to Los Angeles County booking records, Harris was being held in lieu
of $150,000 bail at the Alhambra Police Department's jail pending his initial
court appearance, scheduled Tuesday in the Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County
Superior Court.

Anyone with information is urged to contact San Gabriel police at 626-308-2828.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional Crime Stoppers at
800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Danny Lee Harris, 51, of Pasadena. (Courtesy, San Gabriel Police
Department)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday

Southern California police officer slain by newly freed gang member

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 465 words



HIGHLIGHT: A gang member who was recently freed from jail killed his cousin and
stole his car Monday then shot and killed a California police officer and
wounded his partner before being wounded himself, authorities said.


By ROBERT JABLON

LOS ANGELES (AP) - A gang member who was recently freed from jail killed his
cousin and stole his car Monday then shot and killed a California police officer
and wounded his partner before being wounded himself, authorities said.

Whittier Officer Keith Lane Boyer died and Officer Patrick Hazel was wounded
when they answered a report of a traffic accident in the eastern Los Angeles
County suburb.

A motorist pointed out the location of the car that had rear-ended his vehicle,
and the officers approached the driver.

"When they get him out of the car, they go to pat him down for weapons, they can
see he's got tattoos all over his face and all over his neck," county sheriff's
Lt. John Corina said.

The man then pulled a semi-automatic handgun from his waistband and opened fire
at the officers, who were wearing bulletproof vests and shot back, Corina said.

"They walked up on the vehicle believing the motorist was in need of medical
help and then they ended up in a gunfight for their lives," Sheriff Jim
McDonnell said.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper wept as he described Boyer as a friend of more
than 25 years.

"All of us have been grieving," the chief said. "And I didn't think I had any
tears left."

Gov. Jerry Brown issued a statement of condolence. Capitol flags were ordered to
be flown at half-staff in his honor.

The suspect, a 26-year-old gang member, had a history of serious crimes and had
been granted early release from Los Angeles County jail about a week ago, Corina
said. He didn't know the nature of his offense.

His name wasn't immediately released.

Earlier Monday, he shot and killed his cousin in East Los Angeles and took his
car, which later rear-ended another car in the neighboring city of Whittier,
Corina said.

He got out and asked those he had hit to help push his stolen car from the
intersection.

Boyer and Hazel didn't know any of those details when they answered the report
of a car accident, Corina said.

Boyer was pronounced dead at a hospital. Hazel, a three-year veteran, and the
suspect were hospitalized in stable condition and were expected to live.

After the shooting, a long line of police cars escorted the slain officer's body
from a hospital in Irvine to the coroner's office. Mourners placed candles and
flowers outside police headquarters.

Boyer joined the force as a dispatcher in 1989 and became a full-time officer in
1990. A divorced father who played the drums, he was "the best of the best" who
was sought for advice by his colleagues and superiors, the chief said.

Boyer recently talked to the chief about retiring.

The Whittier Police Department has about 125 sworn officers who patrol Whittier
and Santa Fe Springs.

The department has had two other officers killed in the line of duty - a
detective in 1979 and a corporal in 1977.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Man guilty of kidnapping his ex Police to hold checkpoint on Friday DUI/driver
license checkpoint set Traffic stop leads to weapons arrest

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 632 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, Sept. 2, 2017.

FULL TEXT

A jury convicted a Los Angeles man on Thursday of attacking, threatening and
kidnapping his ex-girlfriend in Duarte in May, authorities said.

The Alhambra jury found Albert Casillas, 38, guilty of kidnapping, domestic
violence and making criminal threats following a four-day trial, Los Angeles
County District Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago said in a written
statement.

He faces up to 24 years and four months in state prison when he returns to the
Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County Superior Court on Sept. 28.

The series of crimes took place on May 3.

"Casillas went to his ex-girlfriend's Duarte home and, while in front of the
woman's residence, forced her into his vehicle and threatened to hurt her if she
got out," Santiago said. Casillas then drove the victim from the kidnapping
scene at Millbrae and Central avenues to his home in East Los Angeles.

A witness reported the abduction, and deputies arrived to find the woman
suffering from injuries to her body, Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John
McClure said at the time.

The woman told deputies she had not been the victim of any crime, but deputies
arrested Casillas based on her injuries and the accounts of witnesses, McClure
said.

The jury convicted Casillas of all three crimes with which he was charged.

Police in Pasadena are planning to hold a sobriety and driver licence
checkpoint, as well as keep an extra eye out for red light violations, on Friday
ahead of Labor Day weekend, authorities said.

The checkpoint will be held from 7 p.m. Friday to 3 a.m. Saturday and an
undisclosed spot within the city, Pasadena police Lt. Diego Torres said in a
written statement.

Additionally, Pasadena police also plan special enforcement throughout the day,
with an emphasis on red light violators, according to Torres.

Funding for both operations is being provided by a grant from the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, through the California Office of Traffic
Safety.

Police will be keeping an eye out for drunken and drug-impaired drivers and
checking driver licenses during a checkpoint in the city next week.

The checkpoint will be held from 8:30 p.m. Friday, Sept. 8 to 3 a.m. Saturday,
Sept. 9. Monrovia police did not indicate where in the city officers would set
up the checkpoint.

For the past three years, DUI-related collisions in the city have resulted in 35
crashes where 48 people were injured, according to Monrovia police in a
statement.

The checkpoint is funded by a grant from the California Office of Traffic
Safety, through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

Deputies who approached a man for a traffic violation last week ended up
arresting him after discovering he had with him loaded handguns, a shotgun, and
expandable baton, pepper spray, a security guard badge and his brother's ID in
Rowland Heights, officials said.

Alejandro Raygoza, 25, of La Verne was arrested on suspicion of possession of
concealed, loaded weapons during the incident, which unfolded about 8:20 a.m.
Aug. 24 along Fairway Drive near the 60 Freeway, Los Angeles County sheriff's
officials said Thursday in a written statement.

Deputies first approached a car after noticing it was impeding traffic,
according to the statement. As they spoke with the driver, they noticed he had a
handgun holstered on his waist.

"The driver claimed to be a security guard and handed the deputies an ID," the
statement said. "When the deputies questioned the driver about the ID they
discovered he had handed them his brother's ID and he is not licensed to carry
firearms."

Inside the car, deputies found an additional handgun, a shotgun and the other
items, authorities said. It was not clear why the suspect was driving around
with the weapons.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 26, 2017 Thursday

Police, county sheriffs at odds with law;
Amid funding threats, local government officials choose 'hands-off' approach
despite U.S. policies

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 458 words


In the face of President Donald Trump's orderto pull federal dollarsfrom
so-called "sanctuary cities," Southern California law enforcement officials from
L.A. to the Inland Empire on Wednesday stuck to walking a fine line with
hands-off approaches in their treatment of undocumented immigrants.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said his department will follow its
decades-old policy of keeping officers focused on local crimes, leaving federal
violations such as entering the country illegally in the hands of immigration
officials.

Beck said the city policy - known as "Special Order 40" - will remain in place
despite an executive order signed Wednesday by Trump that calls for federal
funding to be taken away from municipalities operating as "sanctuary cities."

Beck said the department's policy has helped to keep the city safe by allowing
officers to win trust with residents, some of whom are undocumented.

"I've been policing this city for 40 years, and I don't know how much policing
experience the president has but I have quite a bit," Beck said. "And I believe
in the way that we police Los Angeles. I believe that when you build trust, you
build witnesses, you build people that cooperate with local law enforcement, and
you keep the city safer."

Issued in 1979 by then-Chief Daryl Gates, the Los Angeles Police Department's
policy bars officers from initiating police action to inquire about a person's
immigration status or arresting someone for violation of immigration laws.

The policy does require officers to notify immigration officials about any
arrests of people accused of several misdemeanors, a "high-grade misdemeanor" or
felony crime, or who have made repeat offenses.

Beck also said immigration violations are civil crimes, and police officers are
only interested in criminal offenses.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell released a statement declaring there
will not be a "change" in the department's policies, saying "Our priority
continues to be protecting our public."

The department's policy "clearly states that our deputies do not ask for one's
immigration status" and that "immigration enforcement remains a federal
responsibility," McDonnell said.

The Sheriff's Department also must follow the California Trust Act, signed in
2014, that limits a local agency's ability to cooperate with federal officials
under Secure Communities. This federal program allows the Department of Homeland
Security to monitor the immigration status of detainees and to request that
those arrested be kept in detention longer.

McDonnell said they will also follow the federal Truth Act that went into effect
this year, which requires authorities to inform detainees in writing of their
right to refuse to be interviewed by ICE officials.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 26, 2017 Thursday

Police, county sheriffs at odds with law;
Amid funding threats, local government officials choose 'hands-off' approach
despite U.S. policies

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 458 words


In the face of President Donald Trump's orderto pull federal dollarsfrom
so-called "sanctuary cities," Southern California law enforcement officials from
L.A. to the Inland Empire on Wednesday stuck to walking a fine line with
hands-off approaches in their treatment of undocumented immigrants.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said his department will follow its
decades-old policy of keeping officers focused on local crimes, leaving federal
violations such as entering the country illegally in the hands of immigration
officials.

Beck said the city policy - known as "Special Order 40" - will remain in place
despite an executive order signed Wednesday by Trump that calls for federal
funding to be taken away from municipalities operating as "sanctuary cities."

Beck said the department's policy has helped to keep the city safe by allowing
officers to win trust with residents, some of whom are undocumented.

"I've been policing this city for 40 years, and I don't know how much policing
experience the president has but I have quite a bit," Beck said. "And I believe
in the way that we police Los Angeles. I believe that when you build trust, you
build witnesses, you build people that cooperate with local law enforcement, and
you keep the city safer."

Issued in 1979 by then-Chief Daryl Gates, the Los Angeles Police Department's
policy bars officers from initiating police action to inquire about a person's
immigration status or arresting someone for violation of immigration laws.

The policy does require officers to notify immigration officials about any
arrests of people accused of several misdemeanors, a "high-grade misdemeanor" or
felony crime, or who have made repeat offenses.

Beck also said immigration violations are civil crimes, and police officers are
only interested in criminal offenses.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell released a statement declaring there
will not be a "change" in the department's policies, saying "Our priority
continues to be protecting our public."

The department's policy "clearly states that our deputies do not ask for one's
immigration status" and that "immigration enforcement remains a federal
responsibility," McDonnell said.

The Sheriff's Department also must follow the California Trust Act, signed in
2014, that limits a local agency's ability to cooperate with federal officials
under Secure Communities. This federal program allows the Department of Homeland
Security to monitor the immigration status of detainees and to request that
those arrested be kept in detention longer.

McDonnell said they will also follow the federal Truth Act that went into effect
this year, which requires authorities to inform detainees in writing of their
right to refuse to be interviewed by ICE officials.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2017 Thursday

Washington: Los Angeles-area man sentenced to 17 years in federal prison for
enticing girl to take pictures while engaged in sexually explicit acts

LENGTH: 412  words



Washington: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has issued the following
news release:

A Murrieta man identified during a probe by U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) has been sentenced to
17 years in federal prison after pleading guilty to enticing a Seattle girl to
engage in sexually explicit activity that resulted in the production of child
pornography.


Curtis Audun Larssen, 33, was sentenced Monday by U.S. District Judge S. James
Otero to 210 months in prison. Larssen pleaded guilty in June 2017 to one count
of using the internet to induce a minor to engage in criminal sexual activity.
Once he completes his prison sentence, Larssen will be on supervised release for
the rest of his life.
According to court documents, Larssen directed a girl, who is described as being
no older than 13, to have sexual contact with adult men. Larssen encouraged the
victim to allow him to watch the sexual conduct, and to take photos and videos
to send to Larssen. In one case, the girl sent Larssen a photo showing her
engaged in sexual activity with a 35-year-old man.
In a plea agreement, Larssen admitted using a peer-to-peer network to trade
child pornography. During a search of Larssen's residence in 2014, authorities
found approximately 470 videos depicting child pornography.
Larssen was one of 11 defendants arrested in April 2016 as part of Operation
Wide Net, an overarching investigation conducted by the Los Angeles Internet
Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force, which includes HSI, the FBI, and the
United States Postal Inspection Service. These federal law enforcement agencies
work with local law enforcement partners, including the Los Angeles Police
Department and the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department.
The case against Larssen was prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jennifer Chou
of the Violent and Organized Crime Section.
HSI's participation in this case was part of Operation Predator, an
international HSI initiative to protect children from sexual predators. Since
the launch of Operation Predator in 2003, HSI has arrested more than 16,000
individuals for crimes against children, including the production and
distribution of online child pornography, traveling overseas for sex with
minors, and sex trafficking of children. In fiscal year 2016, more than 2,600
child predators were arrested by HSI special agents under this initiative and
more than 800 victims identified or rescued.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              July 3, 2017 Monday

Hate crimes rise across SoCal

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614 words

ABSTRACT

CSUSB's Brian Levin has released his latest hate crime stats, . He released his
hate crime numbers not too long ago, and we didn't have anyone available to
write them up. But he alerted us that he's attending a DOJ Hate Crime
subcommittee hearing tomorrow, and he could relay info and photos to us. Think
it might be a good to get back to the numbers and see what the trends are here
in So Cal given the new administration and the recent ACT rallies, etc.

FULL TEXT

It's not your imagination: Hate crimes were up last year - across the nation,
state and closer to home.

In 2016, 230 hate crimes were committed in Los Angeles, according to the FBI, up
15 percent over the year before. In Orange County, there were 50 hate crimes, up
13.6 percent over the year before. Of the local communities in the FBI's 2016
hate crimes statistics, Long Beach saw a decrease in hate crimes, with eight
committed in 2016, down 33 percent from the year before.

Nationally, the FBI reports 2,173 hate crimes were committed nationally in 2016,
up 8.81 percent from the year before.

Police data assembled by theCenter for the Study of Hate and Extremism at Cal
State San Bernardinolooks at a sample of 25 large cities and counties across the
United States, including nine of the 10 most populous cities.

"In 25 major cities and counties throughout the United States for 2016, we found
a 6 percent increase," said Brian Levin, director of the Center for the Study of
Hate and Extremism. "However, in California, it went up 14 percent."

The cities of San Bernardino and Riverside don't have the population to be
included in the report, but the center's data show that Riverside County had 9
hate incidents last year, up from eight the year before, a 12 percent increase.
San Bernardino had eight hate crimes in 2016, a 100 percent leap from the four
incidents in 2015.

And the trend is even more worrying.

"For California, we can confidently state that when the full data is released by
the attorney general, that we'll have the first back-to-back increases since
1996," Levin said. "Nationally and in California, we're at multi-year highs, but
well-off the record high of 2001. After years of declines, we're seeing
back-to-back increases, so that's a concern."

Last yearalso looks to be the second consecutive year that hate crimes went up
faster in California than the rest of the country.

Levin presented the data Thursday in Washington, D.C., at a summit of the Hate
Crimes Subcommittee, a subcommittee of the presidentialTask Force on Crime
Reduction and Public Safety.

"There was a definite election-time spike in places like San Jose, Los Angeles,
but also New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Montgomery County,
Maryland," he said.

"And the increase in many of these places was dramatic."

Specifically, hate crimes against gays and Muslims went up right around the
November election.

Levin repeatedly noted that these spikes aren't necessarily all-time highs in
hate crimes.

"During the 1980s, in those places that did gather data, we had higher hate
crime rates," he said. "But we don't have data from many of these places."

And even now, it's hard to trust all of the reported data.

"We're seeing a really uneven response to data collection," with whole states
like Louisiana reporting no hate crimes in 2016.

The center goes beyond police data to survey communities across the country and
estimates less than half of actual incidents are reported to the police as hate
crimes.

"In places where we have data on incidents, they're rising faster than official
hate crimes," Levin said. "It's socially acceptable in many places to be an over
the top overt bigot, as long as you're not committing any crimes."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1311 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, Jan. 3, Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

Carson

Due to the Christmasholiday, new reports were not available for this week's log.

Information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Unincorporated county area

Due to the Christmasholiday, new reports were not available for this week's log.

Information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

TORRANCE

Armed robbery: 10:30-10:34 p.m. Dec. 22, 22000 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. An
assailant who said he had a gun demanded money from a cash register. No loss
reported.

Armed robbery: 11:17 p.m. Dec. 18, 4100 block of Pacific Coast Highway. Someone
brandished a gun and demanded property. A wallet, an ID, credit cards, money and
paperwork were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 7 p.m. Dec. 23-8:43 a.m. Dec. 24, 18300 block of Van Ness
Avenue. A locking mechanism was defeated for entry. Musical equipment, a
television and a bowling ball were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 9:10 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Dec. 21, 16400 block of Haas Avenue. A
window was smashed for entry. Electronics were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 10:30 a.m.-1:54 p.m. Dec. 20, 300 block of Paseo de
Gracia. A sliding door was smashed to enter. The location was ransacked.
Chocolate was reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 10 a.m. Dec. 19-6 p.m. Dec. 22, 4400 block of Pacific
Coast Highway. Entry through an unlocked window. A cellphone and watches were
reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 3:37-5:47 p.m. Dec. 24, 3500 block of Carson Street. Some
people entered a store. While one distracted the victim, another entered an
employees-only area and took a cellphone, a wallet, money and credit cards from
a purse. The credit cards were used to make fraudulent transactions.

Commercial burglary: 5:37 a.m. Dec. 24, 22500 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A
window was smashed to enter. An attempt was made to force open a cash register.
No loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 4:28-4:35 a.m. Dec. 23, 2800 block of Pacific Coast
Highway. A glass door was smashed to enter. The loss, if any, was not known at
the time of the report.

Commercial burglary: 7 p.m. Dec. 20-7 a.m. Dec. 21, 1800 block of 205th Street.
A glass door was smashed. Tools and a computer were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 4 p.m. Dec. 20-7 a.m. Dec. 21, 3600 block of Torrance
Boulevard. A glass door was smashed to enter. Copper pipes were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 1-6:32 a.m. Dec. 19, 21300 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A
window was shattered to enter. A safe was cut open. Money and camera equipment
were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 8:16-10:10 p.m. Dec. 18, 20600 block of Gramercy Place. A
window was broken to enter. Camera equipment was reported stolen.

Theft: 6:40-6:55 p.m. Dec. 23, 3600 block of Fashion Way. Unspecified,
unattended property was reported stolen.

Theft: 1-2:10 p.m. Dec. 23, 23200 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A wallet, IDs
and a debit card were reported stolen from an unattended purse.

Theft: 3:02 p.m. Dec. 22, 3300 block of Civic Center Drive. An unattended
cellphone was reported stolen from a table.

Theft: 11:42 a.m. Dec. 21, 3500 block of Lomita Boulevard. License plates were
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 11-11:15 a.m. Dec. 21, 5000 block of Pacific Coast Highway. Money that
fell out of a jacket was reported stolen.

Theft: 9:26 a.m. Dec. 21, 3500 block of Lomita Boulevard. Money was reported
stolen from an unattended purse in an office.

Theft: 1:35 p.m. Dec. 20, 3500 block of Carson Street. A delivered credit card
was reported stolen from a porch. Fraudulent charges were made on the card.

Theft: 6-7:30 p.m. Dec. 19, 190th Street and Hawthorne Boulevard. An unattended
backpack, clothing and tablet were reported stolen from a bus stop.

Theft: Noon to 2 p.m. Dec. 19, 24400 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A cellphone
was reported stolen from a counter.

Theft: 6:28 p.m. Dec. 18, 23200 block of Evalyn Avenue. License plates were
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 11:47 a.m. Dec. 18, 21600 block of Western Avenue. Someone grabbed a
purse from the victim's arm and fled in a vehicle.

Vehicle burglary: 1-3:30 p.m. Dec. 24, 22100 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A
locking mechanism was defeated for entry. A phone charger was reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 7:40 a.m. to 7:10 p.m. Dec. 24, 2500 block of Torrance
Boulevard. A window was smashed to enter. The interior was ransacked. A
skateboard and clothing were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 4:45-5:15 p.m. Dec. 23, 3500 block of Carson Street. Unknown
means of entry. A vacuum and cookware were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 2:53 p.m. Dec. 23, 300 block of Palos Verdes Boulevard. A
window was smashed to enter. The interior was ransacked. No loss reported.

Vehicle burglary: 2:40-9:30 a.m. Dec. 22, 18400 block of Ashley Avenue. Unknown
means of entry. A wallet, credit cards, a recording device, a camera and a GPS
were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 4:30 p.m. Dec. 21-10:30 a.m. Dec. 22, 1700 block of Lincoln
Avenue. Paperwork, a bag and glasses were reported stolen from a motorcycle.

Vehicle burglary: 1 p.m. Dec. 21-11 a.m. Dec. 22, 18200 block of Ashley Avenue.
An unlocked vehicle was ransacked. Cellphones, a tablet, sunglasses and a
license plate were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 4:35-4:41 a.m. Dec. 21, 1800 block of Gramercy Avenue. Someone
punched door locks to enter and fled with tools after being confronted by the
victim.

Vehicle burglary: 3:35-3:45 a.m. Dec. 21, 3200 block of El Dorado Street. A
window was smashed for entry. A duffle bag, jumper cables and a first-aid kit
were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 7-10:30 p.m. Dec. 20, 1700 block of Carson Street. A window
was smashed. Sunglasses and an MP3 player were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 6 p.m. Dec. 20 to 4:45 a.m. Dec. 21, 2100 block of 182nd
Street. Unknown means of entry into a locked vehicle. Clothing and rain gear
were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 5:18 p.m. Dec. 20 to 5:18 a.m. Dec. 21, 2100 block of 182nd
Street. An unlocked vehicle was ransacked. Clothing, sunglasses, money, artwork
and keys were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 2:30-2:35 p.m. Dec. 20, 16700 block of Cherry Avenue. A door
lock was punched. A wallet, money and keys were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 10:59 p.m. Dec. 19-1:30 p.m. Dec. 23, 2100 block of 169th
Place. Unknown means of entry. Jumper cables were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 8:30 p.m. Dec. 19-6 a.m. Dec. 20, 3400 block of Garnet Street.
Unknown means of entry. The interior was ransacked. Paperwork was reported
stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 6-11 p.m. Dec. 19, 2700 block of Plaza del Amo. A window was
smashed to enter. Paperwork was reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 9 p.m. Dec. 18-6 a.m. Dec. 19, 1800 block of 220th Street. A
window was shattered to enter. A laptop computer and paperwork were reported
stolen.

Vandalism: 8:25-8:28 p.m. Dec. 21, 1600 block of Flower Avenue. A BB gun was
used to damage windows.

Stolen vehicle:

8:20 p.m. Dec. 24, 16600 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. 2001 Toyota Tacoma.

2-4:30 a.m. Dec. 22, 18400 block of Ashley Avenue. 2008 Volkswagen Jetta.

10:33 a.m. Dec. 21, 22700 block of Western Avenue. 1992 Honda Accord.

10 p.m. Dec. 20 to 9:57 a.m. Dec. 21, 20300 block of Gramercy Place. 2007 Honda
S2000.

7:30 p.m. Dec. 20 to 7:20 a.m. Dec. 21, 1700 block of Arlington Avenue. 2013 BMW
528i.

1 p.m. Dec. 19 to 6:30 a.m. Dec. 20, 3600 block of Emerald Street. 2013 Scion
tC.

11:31 a.m. Dec. 19, 21000 block of Victor Street. 2005 Chevrolet Suburban.

2:22 p.m. Dec. 18, 3100 block of 170th Street. 2002 Toyota Tacoma.

10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Dec. 18, 24400 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2005 Acura TL.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1311 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, Jan. 3, Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

Carson

Due to the Christmasholiday, new reports were not available for this week's log.

Information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Unincorporated county area

Due to the Christmasholiday, new reports were not available for this week's log.

Information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

TORRANCE

Armed robbery: 10:30-10:34 p.m. Dec. 22, 22000 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. An
assailant who said he had a gun demanded money from a cash register. No loss
reported.

Armed robbery: 11:17 p.m. Dec. 18, 4100 block of Pacific Coast Highway. Someone
brandished a gun and demanded property. A wallet, an ID, credit cards, money and
paperwork were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 7 p.m. Dec. 23-8:43 a.m. Dec. 24, 18300 block of Van Ness
Avenue. A locking mechanism was defeated for entry. Musical equipment, a
television and a bowling ball were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 9:10 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Dec. 21, 16400 block of Haas Avenue. A
window was smashed for entry. Electronics were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 10:30 a.m.-1:54 p.m. Dec. 20, 300 block of Paseo de
Gracia. A sliding door was smashed to enter. The location was ransacked.
Chocolate was reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 10 a.m. Dec. 19-6 p.m. Dec. 22, 4400 block of Pacific
Coast Highway. Entry through an unlocked window. A cellphone and watches were
reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 3:37-5:47 p.m. Dec. 24, 3500 block of Carson Street. Some
people entered a store. While one distracted the victim, another entered an
employees-only area and took a cellphone, a wallet, money and credit cards from
a purse. The credit cards were used to make fraudulent transactions.

Commercial burglary: 5:37 a.m. Dec. 24, 22500 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A
window was smashed to enter. An attempt was made to force open a cash register.
No loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 4:28-4:35 a.m. Dec. 23, 2800 block of Pacific Coast
Highway. A glass door was smashed to enter. The loss, if any, was not known at
the time of the report.

Commercial burglary: 7 p.m. Dec. 20-7 a.m. Dec. 21, 1800 block of 205th Street.
A glass door was smashed. Tools and a computer were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 4 p.m. Dec. 20-7 a.m. Dec. 21, 3600 block of Torrance
Boulevard. A glass door was smashed to enter. Copper pipes were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 1-6:32 a.m. Dec. 19, 21300 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A
window was shattered to enter. A safe was cut open. Money and camera equipment
were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 8:16-10:10 p.m. Dec. 18, 20600 block of Gramercy Place. A
window was broken to enter. Camera equipment was reported stolen.

Theft: 6:40-6:55 p.m. Dec. 23, 3600 block of Fashion Way. Unspecified,
unattended property was reported stolen.

Theft: 1-2:10 p.m. Dec. 23, 23200 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A wallet, IDs
and a debit card were reported stolen from an unattended purse.

Theft: 3:02 p.m. Dec. 22, 3300 block of Civic Center Drive. An unattended
cellphone was reported stolen from a table.

Theft: 11:42 a.m. Dec. 21, 3500 block of Lomita Boulevard. License plates were
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 11-11:15 a.m. Dec. 21, 5000 block of Pacific Coast Highway. Money that
fell out of a jacket was reported stolen.

Theft: 9:26 a.m. Dec. 21, 3500 block of Lomita Boulevard. Money was reported
stolen from an unattended purse in an office.

Theft: 1:35 p.m. Dec. 20, 3500 block of Carson Street. A delivered credit card
was reported stolen from a porch. Fraudulent charges were made on the card.

Theft: 6-7:30 p.m. Dec. 19, 190th Street and Hawthorne Boulevard. An unattended
backpack, clothing and tablet were reported stolen from a bus stop.

Theft: Noon to 2 p.m. Dec. 19, 24400 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A cellphone
was reported stolen from a counter.

Theft: 6:28 p.m. Dec. 18, 23200 block of Evalyn Avenue. License plates were
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 11:47 a.m. Dec. 18, 21600 block of Western Avenue. Someone grabbed a
purse from the victim's arm and fled in a vehicle.

Vehicle burglary: 1-3:30 p.m. Dec. 24, 22100 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. A
locking mechanism was defeated for entry. A phone charger was reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 7:40 a.m. to 7:10 p.m. Dec. 24, 2500 block of Torrance
Boulevard. A window was smashed to enter. The interior was ransacked. A
skateboard and clothing were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 4:45-5:15 p.m. Dec. 23, 3500 block of Carson Street. Unknown
means of entry. A vacuum and cookware were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 2:53 p.m. Dec. 23, 300 block of Palos Verdes Boulevard. A
window was smashed to enter. The interior was ransacked. No loss reported.

Vehicle burglary: 2:40-9:30 a.m. Dec. 22, 18400 block of Ashley Avenue. Unknown
means of entry. A wallet, credit cards, a recording device, a camera and a GPS
were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 4:30 p.m. Dec. 21-10:30 a.m. Dec. 22, 1700 block of Lincoln
Avenue. Paperwork, a bag and glasses were reported stolen from a motorcycle.

Vehicle burglary: 1 p.m. Dec. 21-11 a.m. Dec. 22, 18200 block of Ashley Avenue.
An unlocked vehicle was ransacked. Cellphones, a tablet, sunglasses and a
license plate were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 4:35-4:41 a.m. Dec. 21, 1800 block of Gramercy Avenue. Someone
punched door locks to enter and fled with tools after being confronted by the
victim.

Vehicle burglary: 3:35-3:45 a.m. Dec. 21, 3200 block of El Dorado Street. A
window was smashed for entry. A duffle bag, jumper cables and a first-aid kit
were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 7-10:30 p.m. Dec. 20, 1700 block of Carson Street. A window
was smashed. Sunglasses and an MP3 player were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 6 p.m. Dec. 20 to 4:45 a.m. Dec. 21, 2100 block of 182nd
Street. Unknown means of entry into a locked vehicle. Clothing and rain gear
were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 5:18 p.m. Dec. 20 to 5:18 a.m. Dec. 21, 2100 block of 182nd
Street. An unlocked vehicle was ransacked. Clothing, sunglasses, money, artwork
and keys were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 2:30-2:35 p.m. Dec. 20, 16700 block of Cherry Avenue. A door
lock was punched. A wallet, money and keys were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 10:59 p.m. Dec. 19-1:30 p.m. Dec. 23, 2100 block of 169th
Place. Unknown means of entry. Jumper cables were reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 8:30 p.m. Dec. 19-6 a.m. Dec. 20, 3400 block of Garnet Street.
Unknown means of entry. The interior was ransacked. Paperwork was reported
stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 6-11 p.m. Dec. 19, 2700 block of Plaza del Amo. A window was
smashed to enter. Paperwork was reported stolen.

Vehicle burglary: 9 p.m. Dec. 18-6 a.m. Dec. 19, 1800 block of 220th Street. A
window was shattered to enter. A laptop computer and paperwork were reported
stolen.

Vandalism: 8:25-8:28 p.m. Dec. 21, 1600 block of Flower Avenue. A BB gun was
used to damage windows.

Stolen vehicle:

8:20 p.m. Dec. 24, 16600 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. 2001 Toyota Tacoma.

2-4:30 a.m. Dec. 22, 18400 block of Ashley Avenue. 2008 Volkswagen Jetta.

10:33 a.m. Dec. 21, 22700 block of Western Avenue. 1992 Honda Accord.

10 p.m. Dec. 20 to 9:57 a.m. Dec. 21, 20300 block of Gramercy Place. 2007 Honda
S2000.

7:30 p.m. Dec. 20 to 7:20 a.m. Dec. 21, 1700 block of Arlington Avenue. 2013 BMW
528i.

1 p.m. Dec. 19 to 6:30 a.m. Dec. 20, 3600 block of Emerald Street. 2013 Scion
tC.

11:31 a.m. Dec. 19, 21000 block of Victor Street. 2005 Chevrolet Suburban.

2:22 p.m. Dec. 18, 3100 block of 170th Street. 2002 Toyota Tacoma.

10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Dec. 18, 24400 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2005 Acura TL.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            March 18, 2017 Saturday

Santa Fe Springs men jailed in $35 million cocaine bust sentenced

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 383 words

ABSTRACT

LOS ANGELES >> Two Sante Fe Springs men arrested in a jailed in a $672-pound
cocaine bust linked to the Sinaloa drug cartel received prison sentences of more
than 20 years each last week, authorities said.

FULL TEXT

Two Santa Fe Springs men jailed in a 672-pound cocaine bust linked to the
Sinaloa drug cartel received prison sentences of more than two decades each last
week, authorities said.

Eddie Perez, 43, and Jose Garcia Samano, 41, have been behind bars since June 2,
2015, when a Los Angeles County sheriff's task forcecarried out a raidat a home
in the11400 block of Charlesworth Roadin Santa Fe Springs, where deputies seized
562 pounds of cocaine.

The bust took place one day after deputies arrested two other men linked to the
drug ring after pulling over their car in their hometown of Victorville and
discovering 110 pounds of the drug in the trunk of their vehicle, according to
officials from the sheriff's Los Angeles Interagency Metropolitan Police
Apprehension Crime Task Force, orL.A. IMPACT. The large-scale drug-dealing
operation was believed to be linked to the Sinaloa cartel in Mexico.
Investigators valued the seized cocaine at $35 million.

At their sentencing hearing March 9, Perez received a prison term of 23 years,
while Samano was sentenced to 27 years in state prison, Los Angeles County
District Attorney's Office spokesman Greg Risling said.

Perez had pleaded guilty to selling a controlled substance, conspiracy to commit
a crime and two counts of possession of a controlled substance, Risling said.
Samano pleaded guilty to selling a controlled substance and conspiracy.

Thetwo other defendantsin the case, who were arrested during the traffic stop in
Victorville, are already serving time for their roles in the cocaine ring.

Eligio Alvarez Manriquez, 27, received a sentence of 22 years in state prison in
February after pleading no contest to selling a controlled substance, possession
of a controlled substance and conspiracy, Risling said. Jose Manuel Lopez, 25,
was sentenced to three years, to be served in county jail, in November after
pleading guilty to a single charge of conspiracy.

A woman who was initially arrested along with Manriquez and Lopez was ultimately
released without charges due to a lack of evidence of her involvement, officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Feds arrest 21 in MS-13 gang crackdown in Los Angeles

BYLINE: Los Angeles Daily News

LENGTH: 576 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of the
violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday in
the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.


LOS ANGELES - Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of
the violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday
in the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.

Homeland Security raids arrest MS-13 gang members across Santa Cruz County

Alleged MS-13 gang leader arrested in connection with Marin teen's slaying

Three MS-13 gang members sentenced to 27 years for 2010 Daly City murder

Violent street gang: U.S. targets finances of MS-13      The 21 suspects
arrested Wednesday were among 44 defendants named in a sweeping
anti-racketeering indictment, some of whom are already in jail, according to the
U.S. attorney's office.

The massive sweep capped a nearly three-year investigation involving federal,
state and local law enforcement authorities.

"These cases constitute the largest crackdown of MS-13 ever conducted in Los
Angeles," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown at a news
conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the arrests.

She added that more than half of the suspects named in the indictment were in
the country illegally, but U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement was not
involved in the investigation.

"This has nothing to do with their immigration status," said Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck as he joined Brown and other members of the law enforcement
community. "This has to do with their criminal status. I will add that many of
the witnesses that allowed us to do this by their statements also have
immigration issues."

Those arrested by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs include the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region, authorities said.

The high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto MS-13 leadership council, a
committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the top
role in light of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement, authorities said.

The indictment charges three MS-13 members for killings they are accused of
committing in connection with the gang's activities.

One suspect, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, 23, also known as "Little Boy," faces
a violent crime in aid of racketeering - or VICAR - murder charge for allegedly
fatally shooting an innocent bystander on Aug. 15, 2015, inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue, officials said. A friend of the victim was also stabbed during the
attack.

Two other suspected MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, 39, known as
"Blacky," and Joffri Molina, 24, known as "Espia" - are also charged with
murder.

Rivas is charged with murder in the death a man on Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip
mall in Pacoima. Molina is charged with murder in the death of a man on Sept.
27, 2015, on a street in North Hollywood.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Brown said. "With thousands of members here in the Southland,
the gang's power is widespread, power which it maintains with severe acts of
violence."

The three people facing murder charges could face the death penalty if
convicted, authorities said.

Beck said there were 800 documented MS-13 members in L.A.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

A Valley hub for drugs and prostitution to clean up;
Motel 6 agrees to reforms in $250,000 deal with city

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 383 words


LOS ANGELES >> A Motel 6 in Sylmar will have stricter guest registration
requirements and beefed up security as part of a $250,000 settlement with the
office of Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer.

Saying the location had become a hub for drug sales, prostitution and gang
activity, Feuer on Thursday announced the settlement with Motel 6 owner G6
Hospitality Property LLC.

The settlement will benefit hotel guests, neighbors and nearby businesses and
"is going to assist our office and take our efforts to combat human trafficking
to the next level," Feuer told reporters at his office in downtown Los An

geles.

Located at 12775 Encinitas Ave. in Sylmar, the property will now have a
48-camera video monitoring system, two security guards on site and post notices
about human trafficking, according to Feuer. Other arrangements in the
settlement include a 'do not rent' list of known criminals, prohibiting known
criminals from accessing the property and blocking access to Backpage.com, a
website that city officials said was known for arranging prostitution.

"The important thing for us is ... the continuing monitoring of the site to
assure the implementations of these steps happens and also to make sure they're
effective," Feuer explained.

The Los Angeles Police Department has made more than 60 arrests at the location
since 2013, including 22 arrests for narcotics, 10 arrests for prostitution and
34 additional arrests for battery, burglary and felons in possession of
firearms, city officials said.

In November, Feuer's office filed the original complaint against the motel
alleging the motel was used as a base from which known gang members and drug
dealers would operate and recruit pimps and prostitutes, traffic stolen goods
and distribute narcotics, city officials said.

City Councilwoman Monica Rodriguez, who stood next to Feuer at the news
conference and who represents the Sylmar area, said the motel has been a problem
for decades.

"It is removing a very big thorn in our side, and this is a huge win for the
Sylmar community," Rodriguez said.

Feuer said Motel 6 is in the process of implementing the terms of the
settlement.

Phone and email messages left with G6 Hospitality spokeswoman Raiza Rehkoff on
Thursday were not immediately returned.

City News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 27, 2017 Monday

Development, crime haunt race for mayor;
Garcetti's toughest opposition on the March 7 ballot might be issues, not the
other candidates

BYLINE: Michael R. Blood; AP Political Writer

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 803 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti's toughest competitor in his campaign for a
second term might not be another candidate

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti's toughest competitor in his
campaign for a second term might not be another candidate.

Anxiety over taller, denser development, a jump in violent crime and the city's
notoriously fickle voters together inject a faint hue of uncertainty into what
otherwise looks like a lopsided contest.

Slim and polished, the 46-year-old Democrat is nearing the end of a relatively
steady first term blessed by an improved national economy. He helped secure new
funds for rail lines intended to help unclog freeways, relaxed business taxes
and championed a $1 billion program to get control of a homeless crisis.

Powerful business and labor interests are behind him, and he's successfully
discouraged competition. The mayor faces a field of 10 little-known rivals on
March 7 and none has raised the millions of dollars needed to become better
known in a sprawling city that reaches from the Venice Beach boardwalk to tract
homes in the suburban-like San Fernando Valley.

The mayor, however, shares the ballot with a proposal intended to restrict large
real estate projects that challenges his vision for building thousands of new
apartments clustered around train stations.

Growing pains are nothing new in L.A., as can be witnessed

in the congested freeways. But questions about development and density - and
what the city of nearly 4 million should become in decades to come - are
coloring campaigns across city government this year.

"The contagion of the growth issue has spread," says Raphael Sonenshein,
executive director of the Pat Brown Institute for Public Affairs at California
State University, Los Angeles.

The slow-growth proposal known as Measure S, Sonenshein says, is "the wild card
in city elections."

Anastasia Mann, who heads the Hollywood Hills West Neighborhood Council and
supports the restrictions on development, says Garcetti's policies threaten to
reshape L.A. into a vast, vertical metropolis, a "Manhattan west."

Mann and others backing the restrictions say the city too often bends to
politically connected developers whose large projects with high rents drive out
lower-income residents, contributing to homelessness, while increasing
congestion and traffic.

Garcetti opposes the proposal, along with a long line of unions and businesses.
He warns it would kill a string of projects intended to house the homeless and
would drive up rents.

"I'd hate ... to see us go backward," he said after an event near City Hall.

The election comes at a time of renewal and struggles for the nation's
second-largest city.

Once-dreary downtown has seen a rebirth and is home to a buzzing restaurant and
nightlife scene. A stronger economy has helped bring jobs, including into the
tech industry hub known as Silicon Beach. A region without an NFL team for two
decades now has two, the Los Angeles Rams and Chargers.

But poverty rates remain alarming, and housing costs are among the nation's
highest. It's been said traffic can't possibly get worse in L.A., but the
downtown construction boom proved otherwise.

Meanwhile, violent crime has climbed for the third consecutive year, jumping by
37 percent from 2014 to 2016.

Mitchell Schwartz, a former Clinton administration aide who steered then-Sen.
Barack Obama's 2008 campaign in California, said he entered the race because the
mayor's talk of progress doesn't square with what he sees across L.A.

"You don't see the improvements in day-to-day life," Schwartz says. "Anyone who
is driving knows about the potholes everywhere."

As always, one of the biggest questions in Los Angeles is who will vote.

Angelenos tend to greet local elections with a collective shrug, and turnout
sometimes struggles to get into double digits.

It won't help that the November presidential contest left many voters
dispirited. Incumbents are often discussed with a cringe. And with a relatively
small  number of voters in play, there's a higher chance of surprises.

With Garcetti dominating the race so far, leading challengers are hoping to hold
him below 50 percent of the tally next month, which would force the mayor into a
May runoff against the second-place finisher.

As the front-runner, the mayor is facing political expectations.

Widely seen as a future candidate for governor, Congress or U.S. Senate,
Garcetti's credentials could be dinged if he turns in a shaky showing against a
less-than-intimidating field.

"When a mayor is running largely unopposed by any major candidates ... then they
are kind of running against themselves," Sonenshein notes.

Ending up in a runoff would be an embarrassment, but failing to run up the score
could make him look vulnerable.

"In some ways, it's a no-win situation," Sonenshein says.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 18, 2017 Sunday

Washington: Bureau plays role in indictment of MS-13 gang members

LENGTH: 331  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: U S Federal Bureau of Prisons has issued the following news release:


The Bureau of Prisons played an integral role in a three-year investigation
involving federal, state, and local law enforcement in the Los Angeles area. The
investigation culminated in May 2017 when racketeering charges were filed
against 44 individuals associated with the Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) street gang.
Bureau Intelligence Staff identified connections between investigative targets
on the street (including former Bureau inmates) and incarcerated MS-13 members.
The indictment alleges multiple violent crimes were committed by MS-13 members
in an effort to maintain power and control narcotics trafficking in the Los
Angeles area and it also details the strong connection between MS-13 and the
Disruptive Group Mexican Mafia. MS-13 gang members allegedly collected
extortionate monetary amounts (known as "taxes") and distributed them to Mexican
Mafia members who oversaw MS-13 activity in federal prison.


"This operation is a powerful example of the significant impact partnerships
play in law enforcement," said Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck following
the arrests. The Bureau was an active participant throughout the investigation
by providing information used to generate leads and conduct searches through the
Bureau Joint Intelligence Sharing Initiative (JISI) representative stationed at
the Los Angeles FBI office. Bureau staff uncovered previously unknown gang email
addresses, phone numbers, and nicknames enhancing the identification of
participants in the conspiracy and their activities. On the day of the arrests,
during intake processing by the FBI, Bureau staff were present to document all
Security Threat Group tattoos. Simultaneously, Special Investigative Services
offices at USP Big Sandy, USP Lee, FCC Victorville, USP Canaan, FCC Lompoc, FCI
Big Spring, and MDC Los Angeles successfully coordinated searches of additional
materials possibly connected to MS-13 activity.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 16, 2017 Monday

Washington: U.S. Attorney's Office and FBI to Host 9th Annual Cyber Crime
Prevention Symposium for Educators, Parents and Students

LENGTH: 729  words



Washington: US Department of Justice has issued the following news releaase:
    The United States Attorney's Office, the FBI, and a coalition of other law
enforcement agencies and community organizations are hosting the 9th Annual
Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium on Monday, October 16. More than 450 educators,
parents, and middle and high school students are expected to attend the daylong
conference at the California Endowment Center for Healthy Communities in Los
Angeles.     The Symposium will address a wide range of Internet-related
security and safety issues. Speakers will address and lead discussions on topics
that include child exploitation, cyberbullying, the implications of digital
communication on teen health, digital reputation, navigating peer pressure,
social media, sexting and sextortion.

This year's Symposium will feature a youth panel presentation on social media, a
SnapChat geotag and a surprise appearance during the lunch break by celebrity
guests from Disney.     "The internet and social media are a core component of
our everyday lives. Because the internet is such an integral part of their
relationships, young people must have tools to understand the online
environment, the responsibilities they have to themselves and others, and the
perils of reckless behavior," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R.
Brown. "This Symposium will provide young people with important information that
will help them avoid danger while engaging with others online."     "I'm proud
that the FBI has been part of this annual event for nine years, during which
we've seen the rules associated with the internet and cyber security evolve
dramatically," said Danny Kennedy, the Acting Assistant Director in Charge of
the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "In 2017, our children must deal with
traditional challenges such as peer pressure and bullying, but we also expect
them to navigate their way through the latest technology. A byproduct of this
event has always been that the FBI learns a great deal from the students too, as
we endeavor to teach them the latest tools that can make a difference in their
lives."     As part of this year's event, theater students from California State
University, Northridge will perform a cyber-related skit for students and
interact with the audience in a "Write-Around" exercise addressing current
issues such as sexting and cyberbullying.  Student teams from each of the
schools attending this year's Symposium will also be invited to participate in
the annual Cyber Safety Challenge. Participating students will be asked to
develop a cyber safety program for their respective schools to educate the
entire student body on the various risks associated with cyber crime. The
contest promotes good online etiquette by challenging students to create cyber
safety programs. Students participating in this challenge will have their
contest entries judged by a panel of experts, and the winning school will be
awarded prizes in May 2018.     "The cyber world can be a wonderfully
enlightening place, but it can also be a dangerous one, especially for
children," said Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer. "My office is proud to
work with our law enforcement partners to find ways to make the web safer."
Organized under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect
(ICAN), law enforcement agencies participating in tomorrow's conference include
the United States Attorney's Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Los Angeles City Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department,
and the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet Crimes Against Children Task
Force (ICAC). The Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium is hosted this year by the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles, and the planning committee also includes
participation by Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center, the Anti-Defamation League,
Fox Entertainment Group, the Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros.
Entertainment.     "Children who are growing up in this high-tech age are being
targeted by online predators at an alarmingly high rate," said Deanne Tilton
Durfee, Executive Director for the ICAN. "Each year, this Symposium provides
participants with resources and tools to help children learn how to protect
themselves and be safe in the cyber world, while enjoying all of the benefits of
the fast-growing technologies."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

Los Angeles seeks sanctuary from rule of law

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 992 words



"Exactly what is a sanctuary city?"

That's what L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti and Los Angeles Police Department Chief
Charlie Beck want to know.

"We're looking for clarification," Chief Beck said.

The mayor and chief went to Washington last week to knock on the door of
President Trump's director of Homeland Security, John F. Kelley. After the
closed-door meeting, Dave Lapan, a spokesman for Homeland Security, said the
department is "working on a definition" but doesn't have a timeline.

This is wrong.

The mayor and chief are busy men. They can't hang around Washington waiting for
the feds to get their act together. So, to speed things along, I'd like to offer
the following definition of a sanctuary city:

"Sanctuary City (noun) see Los Angeles."

The Trump administration has shoved the ultimate back-burner issue onto the
front burner. At long last we're having an honest debate about our broken
borders rather than the one-sided demagoguing that has maligned anyone opposed
to open borders as a racist and xenophobe.

Ironically, had we been allowed to have this conversation before the issue
reached critical mass, Donald Trump would still be a reality TV goofball rather
than a presidential goofball.

In broad terms, a sanctuary city is a city that does not care if a resident is
in the country illegally.

But Los Angeles went considerably past simple indifference. Our elected
officials, including the mayor, the City Council, the city attorney, our
representatives in Sacramento and Washington have all actively conspired to
subvert any attempt by the federal government to enforce our immigration laws.
They have passed laws, created policies and filed lawsuits in an effort to
further embed our illegal immigrant population into society.

Special Order 40, the infamous 1979 internal LAPD directive from then-Chief
Daryl Gates, is the granddaddy of sanctuary city "laws" in America. I put "laws"
in quotes because Special Order 40 is not actually a law. It's a department
policy instructing officers not to initiate a stop based on suspicion of an
immigration violation.

Order 40 was created with the best of intentions. The hope was, if we took
deportation off the table, victims of crime and witnesses to crimes would not
fear going to the police.

That's not what happened.

Word spread quickly. Los Angeles became the destination for illegal immigrants.
Why not? The welcome mat was out.

L.A.'s illegal community mushroomed, and so did crime. In the decade before
Special Order 40, from 1970 to 1979, Los Angeles experienced 4,950 homicides. In
1992 alone, 13 years after Special Order 40 was supposed to make L.A. safer,
2,589 were murdered. Chief Beck still claims Special Order 40 makes L.A. safer.
Donald Trump is not the only one spewing "alternative facts."

As illegal immigrants spread across the land, local officials in other cities
looked to see how Los Angeles handled the problem. Sadly, they doubled-down on
our bad bet. They created their own versions of Special Order 40, further
entrenching a vulnerable, exploitable and needy population into their
communities while importing poverty, lowering the wages of working people and
sending crime rates through the roof.

But Los Angeles wasn't happy with just Special Order 40. Over the years our
various mayors and City Council members have labored to eliminate any
distinction between legal immigrants and illegal immigrants with a big assist
from our local news media, who similarly make no distinctions.

Here's a brief sampling of how local politicians poured gas on the fire:

March 21, 2013, Mayor Eric Garcetti reactivated the Office of Immigrant Affairs,
ostensibly to make the transition to a new life in America easier for
immigrants. The office not only makes no distinction between legal and illegal
immigrants, it openly advocates for legislative action at the state and national
level to erase as many distinctions as possible.

For example, SB 60, Councilman Gil Cedillo's dream-come-true, granted driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants, and 605,000 were issued. Yet L.A. is still the
hit-and-run capital of America. Sandra Duran was struck and killed (allegedly)
by a five-time deportee and convicted felon, Estuardo Alvarado, simply the
latest documented case of a horrible crime committed by an undocumented
immigrant.

Los Angeles led the charge to OK major banks accepting Matricula Consular cards
to open accounts and receive home mortgages. You can't get any more embedded in
a community than that.

On July 7, 2014, Mayor Garcetti announced LAPD would not honor federal
immigration requests to detain inmates who might be deportable unless a federal
judge vetted the request. I wonder how Sandra Duran's family feels about that?

SB 1159 granted licenses to ply a trade in California regardless of immigration
status, further embedding our enormous illegal population and encouraging more
to come while forcing hairdressers and other licensed professionals into stiffer
competition, resulting in lower wages.

Kevin de Leon, the president pro-tem of the California State Senate, announced
to the world "half my family is in the country illegally" and then confessed
they had fake (stolen?) Social Security cards and other fraudulent forms of ID.
Not that identity theft is a problem, right? De Leon is the author of SB 54, a
bill that would make all of California an official sanctuary for illegal
immigrants.

Throw in Section 8 housing, Aid to Families With Dependant Children, in-state
tuition at the UC system, a push for universal health insurance regardless of
immigration status, and a cornucopia of other perks and benefits, and it's not
hard to figure out why so many have chosen to come here by any means necessary.

If the mayor and chief of police are still unclear about the definition of a
"sanctuary city," I can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

Doug McIntyre's column appears Sundays. Hear him weekdays 5-10 a.m. on KABC AM
(790). He can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

Los Angeles seeks sanctuary from rule of law

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 970 words


"Exactly what is a sanctuary city?"

That's what L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti and Los Angeles Police Department Chief
Charlie Beck want to know.

"We're looking for clarification," Chief Beck said.

The mayor and chief went to Washington last week to knock on the door of
President Trump's director of Homeland Security, John F. Kelley. After the
closed-door meeting, Dave Lapan, a spokesman for Homeland Security, said the
department is "working on a definition" but doesn't have a timeline.

This is wrong.

The mayor and chief are busy men. They can't hang around Washington waiting for
the feds to get their act together. So, to speed things along, I'd like to offer
the following definition of a sanctuary city:

"Sanctuary City (noun) see Los Angeles."

The Trump administration has shoved the ultimate back-burner issue onto the
front burner. At long last we're having an honest debate about our broken
borders rather than the one-sided demagoguing that has maligned anyone opposed
to open borders as a racist and xenophobe.

Ironically, had we been allowed to have this conversation before the issue
reached critical mass, Donald Trump would still be a reality TV goofball rather
than a presidential goofball.

In broad terms, a sanctuary city is a city that does not care if a resident is
in the country illegally.

But Los Angeles went considerably past simple indifference. Our elected
officials, including the mayor, the City Council, the city attorney, our
representatives in Sacramento and Washington have all actively conspired to
subvert any attempt by the federal government to enforce our immigration laws.
They have passed laws, created policies and filed lawsuits in an effort to
further embed our illegal immigrant population into society.

Special Order 40, the infamous 1979 internal LAPD directive from then-Chief
Daryl Gates, is the granddaddy of sanctuary city "laws" in America. I put "laws"
in quotes because Special Order 40 is not actually a law. It's a department
policy instructing officers not to initiate a stop based on suspicion of an
immigration violation.

Order 40 was created with the best of intentions. The hope was, if we took
deportation off the table, victims of crime and witnesses to crimes would not
fear going to the police.

That's not what happened.

Word spread quickly. Los Angeles became the destination for illegal immigrants.
Why not? The welcome mat was out.

L.A.'s illegal community mushroomed, and so did crime. In the decade before
Special Order 40, from 1970 to 1979, Los Angeles experienced 4,950 homicides. In
1992 alone, 13 years after Special Order 40 was supposed to make L.A. safer,
2,589 were murdered. Chief Beck still claims Special Order 40 makes L.A. safer.
Donald Trump is not the only one spewing "alternative facts."

As illegal immigrants spread across the land, local officials in other cities
looked to see how Los Angeles handled the problem. Sadly, they doubled-down on
our bad bet. They created their own versions of Special Order 40, further
entrenching a vulnerable, exploitable and needy population into their
communities while importing poverty, lowering the wages of working people and
sending crime rates through the roof.

But Los Angeles wasn't happy with just Special Order 40. Over the years our
various mayors and City Council members have labored to eliminate any
distinction between legal immigrants and illegal immigrants with a big assist
from our local news media, who similarly make no distinctions.

Here's a brief sampling of how local politicians poured gas on the fire:

March 21, 2013, Mayor Eric Garcetti reactivated the Office of Immigrant Affairs,
ostensibly to make the transition to a new life in America easier for
immigrants. The office not only makes no distinction between legal and illegal
immigrants, it openly advocates for legislative action at the state and national
level to erase as many distinctions as possible.

For example, SB 60, Councilman Gil Cedillo's dream-come-true, granted driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants, and 605,000 were issued. Yet L.A. is still the
hit-and-run capital of America. Sandra Duran was struck and killed (allegedly)
by a five-time deportee and convicted felon, Estuardo Alvarado, simply the
latest documented case of a horrible crime committed by an undocumented
immigrant.

Los Angeles led the charge to OK major banks accepting Matricula Consular cards
to open accounts and receive home mortgages. You can't get any more embedded in
a community than that.

On July 7, 2014, Mayor Garcetti announced LAPD would not honor federal
immigration requests to detain inmates who might be deportable unless a federal
judge vetted the request. I wonder how Sandra Duran's family feels about that?

SB 1159 granted licenses to ply a trade in California regardless of immigration
status, further embedding our enormous illegal population and encouraging more
to come while forcing hairdressers and other licensed professionals into stiffer
competition, resulting in lower wages.

Kevin de Leon, the president pro-tem of the California State Senate, announced
to the world "half my family is in the country illegally" and then confessed
they had fake (stolen?) Social Security cards and other fraudulent forms of ID.
Not that identity theft is a problem, right? De Leon is the author of SB 54, a
bill that would make all of California an official sanctuary for illegal
immigrants.

Throw in Section 8 housing, Aid to Families With Dependant Children, in-state
tuition at the UC system, a push for universal health insurance regardless of
immigration status, and a cornucopia of other perks and benefits, and it's not
hard to figure out why so many have chosen to come here by any means necessary.

If the mayor and chief of police are still unclear about the definition of a
"sanctuary city," I can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 5, 2017 Sunday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 662 words

ABSTRACT

DN letters for Sun. Feb. 5

FULL TEXT

Hate-crime laws may not be what you think

Re "California hate crimes registry a bad idea" (Guest commentary, Jan. 15):

Laura Krisai's attack on hate crime laws undermines her valid argument against
creating a hate crime registry. Her arguments reflect a profound
misunderstanding of these important laws.

Hate crime laws punish conduct, not thought. Indeed, the U.S. Supreme Court in
1993 unanimously upheld Wisconsin's hate crime law against a First Amendment
challenge. These laws only punish criminal acts such as murder, assault and
vandalism; there are no blurred lines or jumbled distinctions.

In issuing harsher criminal sentences, judges and juries often take motive into
account, and hate crime laws work no differently. And just as in any criminal
case, hate crime laws require that bias motive be proven with evidence beyond a
reasonable doubt.

Krisai also fails to understand that hate crime laws recognize the profound
impact bias-motivated crimes have beyond the immediate victim. Because hate
crime victims are often chosen at random, these crimes terrorize the victim's
community, often lead to retaliatory hate crimes that target members of the
perpetrators' community, and thereby tear at the very fabric of society.

We think that she makes a strong case opposing the concept of a hate crime
registry. But to criticize hate crime laws in the same breath is offensive to
victims. The Supreme Court has recognized that hate-motivated crimes "inflict
greater individual and societal harm" warranting harsher punishment. It's time
for Krisai to do the same.

- Ariella Schusterman

The letter writer is associate regional director for the Anti-Defamation League
Los Angeles

Trump policies, rhetoric aren't 'anti-immigrant'

Re "Trump's anti-immigrant stance fueling protests" (Jan. 15):

I would like you to correct the headline describing President Trump's position
as anti-immigrant. You must know this is misleading, and might even qualify as
fake news.

Trump is in favor of getting serious about upholding the law concerning illegal
immigrants. In your zeal to look righteous and supportive of the marginalized,
you are making legitimate news seem unreliable. Would you please get back to the
business of reporting real news in an unbiased way?

The immigration debate is inflamed enough without your newspapershowing
protesters labeling Trump's motives as "hate." I was moved to write after
reading this story, but it's not the only voice mislabeling Trump's passion to
return to immigration common sense.

- Jan Kolstad, Northridge

It will take a lot to make people yearn for Obama

Re "Soon, America may wish Obama were still around" (Letters, Jan. 20):

Is the letter writer still blaming President George W. Bush for today's
problems? Wow. It's like President Barack Obama never existed!! I'm going with
selective memory.

Will Obama be responsible for any difficulties President Trump encounters? I'm
betting no. If Bush spent "every dime we had," then I suppose Obama spent every
dime we don't have. I guess the letter writer forgot about the stimulus, the
health care debacle and trillions of dollars in debt. As in a day in Vegas,
Obama doubled down on our already out-of-control spending.

And Bush didn't go to war to avenge his dad, unless 9/11 was Bush's fault as
well. I wish President Obama and his family all the best, but I don't think I'll
be begging him to return. Let's move forward, not back.

- John Cramer, Los Angeles

She's a local hero

Re "How one woman's fight is helping workers decades after Santa Susana
radiation exposure" (Jan. 13):

In a world filled with bad news (regardless of one's political preferences), my
heart waswarmed by your  article about the heroic Bonnie Klea, who despite her
personal adversity, traversed that extra mile to help long-suffering humankind.

God bless her, and if there is indeed a heaven, a halo must most assuredly
awaits her but prayerfully not too soon!

- Richard Lorne Davis, Glendale

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 5, 2017 Sunday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 662 words

ABSTRACT

DN letters for Sun. Feb. 5

FULL TEXT

Hate-crime laws may not be what you think

Re "California hate crimes registry a bad idea" (Guest commentary, Jan. 15):

Laura Krisai's attack on hate crime laws undermines her valid argument against
creating a hate crime registry. Her arguments reflect a profound
misunderstanding of these important laws.

Hate crime laws punish conduct, not thought. Indeed, the U.S. Supreme Court in
1993 unanimously upheld Wisconsin's hate crime law against a First Amendment
challenge. These laws only punish criminal acts such as murder, assault and
vandalism; there are no blurred lines or jumbled distinctions.

In issuing harsher criminal sentences, judges and juries often take motive into
account, and hate crime laws work no differently. And just as in any criminal
case, hate crime laws require that bias motive be proven with evidence beyond a
reasonable doubt.

Krisai also fails to understand that hate crime laws recognize the profound
impact bias-motivated crimes have beyond the immediate victim. Because hate
crime victims are often chosen at random, these crimes terrorize the victim's
community, often lead to retaliatory hate crimes that target members of the
perpetrators' community, and thereby tear at the very fabric of society.

We think that she makes a strong case opposing the concept of a hate crime
registry. But to criticize hate crime laws in the same breath is offensive to
victims. The Supreme Court has recognized that hate-motivated crimes "inflict
greater individual and societal harm" warranting harsher punishment. It's time
for Krisai to do the same.

- Ariella Schusterman

The letter writer is associate regional director for the Anti-Defamation League
Los Angeles

Trump policies, rhetoric aren't 'anti-immigrant'

Re "Trump's anti-immigrant stance fueling protests" (Jan. 15):

I would like you to correct the headline describing President Trump's position
as anti-immigrant. You must know this is misleading, and might even qualify as
fake news.

Trump is in favor of getting serious about upholding the law concerning illegal
immigrants. In your zeal to look righteous and supportive of the marginalized,
you are making legitimate news seem unreliable. Would you please get back to the
business of reporting real news in an unbiased way?

The immigration debate is inflamed enough without your newspapershowing
protesters labeling Trump's motives as "hate." I was moved to write after
reading this story, but it's not the only voice mislabeling Trump's passion to
return to immigration common sense.

- Jan Kolstad, Northridge

It will take a lot to make people yearn for Obama

Re "Soon, America may wish Obama were still around" (Letters, Jan. 20):

Is the letter writer still blaming President George W. Bush for today's
problems? Wow. It's like President Barack Obama never existed!! I'm going with
selective memory.

Will Obama be responsible for any difficulties President Trump encounters? I'm
betting no. If Bush spent "every dime we had," then I suppose Obama spent every
dime we don't have. I guess the letter writer forgot about the stimulus, the
health care debacle and trillions of dollars in debt. As in a day in Vegas,
Obama doubled down on our already out-of-control spending.

And Bush didn't go to war to avenge his dad, unless 9/11 was Bush's fault as
well. I wish President Obama and his family all the best, but I don't think I'll
be begging him to return. Let's move forward, not back.

- John Cramer, Los Angeles

She's a local hero

Re "How one woman's fight is helping workers decades after Santa Susana
radiation exposure" (Jan. 13):

In a world filled with bad news (regardless of one's political preferences), my
heart waswarmed by your  article about the heroic Bonnie Klea, who despite her
personal adversity, traversed that extra mile to help long-suffering humankind.

God bless her, and if there is indeed a heaven, a halo must most assuredly
awaits her but prayerfully not too soon!

- Richard Lorne Davis, Glendale

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday

Detroit man and Los Angeles man indicted in separate drug-related cases

LENGTH: 333  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Northern District of West
Virginia has issued the following news release:



  A Detroit, Michigan man and Los Angeles, California man have been indicted on
drug charges, Acting United States Attorney Betsy Steinfeld Jividen, announced.





 Aaron Deshawn Campbell, age 28, of Detroit, Michigan, was indicted today by a
federal grand jury for one count of "Distribution of Cocaine Base in Proximity
of a Protected Location," one count of "Distribution of Cocaine Base," and one
count of "Distribution of Heroin."  The crimes are alleged to have occurred in
May and June of 2015 in Monongalia County.



 Campbell faces up to 40 years in prison and a fine of up to $2,000,000 for the
distribution of cocaine near a protected location count and up to 20 years in
prison and a $1,000,000 fine for each of the other counts. Under the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the
seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the
defendant.



 Assistant U.S. Attorney Zelda E. Wesley is prosecuting the case on behalf of
the government. The Mon Metro Drug and Violent Crime Task Force, a HIDTA-funded
program, investigated.



 In a separate case, Cesar Navarro, age 38, of Los Angeles, California, was
indicted today by a federal grand jury for one count of "Conspiracy to
Distribute Methamphetamine." The crime allegedly took place between September
2014 and December 2016 in Grant County.



 Navarro faces up to 20 years in prison and a $1,000,000 fine. Under the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the
seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the
defendant.



 Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Warner is prosecuting the case on behalf of the
government. The United States Postal Inspection Service investigated.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday

Detroit man and Los Angeles man indicted in separate drug-related cases

LENGTH: 333  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Northern District of West
Virginia has issued the following news release:



  A Detroit, Michigan man and Los Angeles, California man have been indicted on
drug charges, Acting United States Attorney Betsy Steinfeld Jividen, announced.





 Aaron Deshawn Campbell, age 28, of Detroit, Michigan, was indicted today by a
federal grand jury for one count of "Distribution of Cocaine Base in Proximity
of a Protected Location," one count of "Distribution of Cocaine Base," and one
count of "Distribution of Heroin."  The crimes are alleged to have occurred in
May and June of 2015 in Monongalia County.



 Campbell faces up to 40 years in prison and a fine of up to $2,000,000 for the
distribution of cocaine near a protected location count and up to 20 years in
prison and a $1,000,000 fine for each of the other counts. Under the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the
seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the
defendant.



 Assistant U.S. Attorney Zelda E. Wesley is prosecuting the case on behalf of
the government. The Mon Metro Drug and Violent Crime Task Force, a HIDTA-funded
program, investigated.



 In a separate case, Cesar Navarro, age 38, of Los Angeles, California, was
indicted today by a federal grand jury for one count of "Conspiracy to
Distribute Methamphetamine." The crime allegedly took place between September
2014 and December 2016 in Grant County.



 Navarro faces up to 20 years in prison and a $1,000,000 fine. Under the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the
seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the
defendant.



 Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Warner is prosecuting the case on behalf of the
government. The United States Postal Inspection Service investigated.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Access to license-plate data possible, court rules

BYLINE: Sudhin Thanawala; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 579 words

ABSTRACT

The California Supreme Court has ruled that there may be ways to require the
release of data collected by automated license plate readers

FULL TEXT

SAN FRANCISCO >> It would violate people's privacy to publicly release raw data
collected by automated license plate readers that police use to determine
whether vehicles are linked to crime, but there may be ways to make the
information anonymous that would require it to be disclosed, the California
Supreme Court said Thursday.

The ruling came in a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and
Electronic Frontier Foundation that sought a week's worth of license plate data
- millions of records - from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and Los
Angeles Police Department to "understand and educate the public on the risks to
privacy posed" by license plate readers in the area.

A unanimous Supreme Court ordered a lower court to consider methods to make the
data anonymous and determine whether any of those efforts would require its
release.

Law enforcement agencies nationwide are using license plate readers attached to
patrol cars and objects such as traffic signals. The devices indiscriminately
capture images of license plates that come into view. The information is passed
through databases to instantly check whether the car or driver has been linked
to crime.

Officials say the scans are useful in tracking stolen vehicles, missing children
and people wanted by police. For instance, authorities chasing a suspect in a
fatal shooting at Delta State University in Mississippi in 2015 used an
automatic license plate reader to track the man as he traveled across state
lines.

Privacy advocates say the systems overwhelmingly capture innocent drivers,
recording information about their locations that could be used to track their
habits and whereabouts.

The ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation said the agencies hold the data for
years, allowing officers to use it in future investigations.

The state Supreme Court rejected a lower court's decision that the scans are
part of law enforcement investigations, and therefore exempt from disclosure.

The justices said the scans were "not conducted as part of a targeted inquiry
into any particular crime or crimes."

"It is hard to imagine that the Legislature intended for the
records-of-investigations exemption to reach the large volume of data that plate
scanners and other similar technologies now enable agencies to collect
indiscriminately," Associate Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.

Peter Bibring, a senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Southern California, said
that part of the ruling was key.

"The court recognized that technology does make a difference and the exemption
for police investigations wasn't intended to encompass the kind of
indiscriminate collection of information that license plate readers make
possible today," he said.

Bibring said the ACLU wants to see whether law enforcement agencies in Los
Angeles are focusing license plate readers on lower-income communities of color
or communities of a particular religious persuasion.

A message to the Los Angeles city attorney was not immediately returned. The Los
Angeles County counsel's office didn't immediately have comment.

The court, however, said the raw data would fall into a catchall exemption under
the state's Public Records Act that allows agencies not to disclose records when
the public interest in not releasing them clearly outweighs the interest in
disclosing them.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday

Report: Anti-Muslim hate, discrimination up 10% in '16;
Incidents most often involve immigration, complaint data show

BYLINE: Deepa Bharath; dbharath@scng.com reporterdeepa on Twitter

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1046 words

ABSTRACT

comfort Incidents involving hate and discrimination against Muslims in
California increased by 10 percent in 2016, according to an annual civil rights
report released Tuesday, Aug. 29, by the state chapter of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations (CAIR). The report, which covers the Greater Los
Angeles Area, San Diego, the San Francisco Bay Area and Sacramento includes
complaints with regard to...

FULL TEXT

Incidents involving hate and discrimination against Muslims in California
increased by 10 percent in 2016, according to an annual civil rights report
released Tuesdayby the state chapter of the Council on American-Islamic
Relations.

The report, which covers greater Los Angeles, San Diego, the San Francisco Bay
Area and Sacramento, includes complaints involving hate crimes, hate incidents,
bullying in schools, interactions with law enforcement and discrimination in
employment, housing, immigration and travel.

A hate crime is defined as a criminal incident that causes damage to person or
property; a hate incident is a noncriminal act such as a verbal attack.

The report shows California handled 1,239 incidents in 2016, an increase in
civil rights complaints over 2015.

"That's on top of a 34 percent increase in 2015 compared to 2014," said Masih
Fouladi, advocacy manager at Anaheim-based CAIR-LA, which represents Muslim
communities in Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Santa Barbara,
Ventura and San Luis Obispo counties.

"In Southern California, in 2016, we saw a pretty big increase in hate crimes,
hate incidents, employment and travel discrimination."

The report shows a 49 percent rise statewide in discriminatory treatment against
Muslims during travel from 2015 to 2016, incidents that often involved
unexplained detention of people traveling from Muslim-majority countries. Those
numbers are expected to increase in 2017 as a result of the Trump
administration's controversial travel ban, Fouladi said.

The categories receiving the most incident reports for 2016 were immigration
(38.8 percent), law enforcement interactions (17 percent), hate incidents or
hate crimes (14.7 percent) and employ

ment discrimination (10.6 percent). Immigration incidents involved cases where
applications for visas or citizenship were held up.

Fouladi said the number of Muslims reporting discrimination has also
significantly increased because CAIR and other organizations are raising
awareness about the importance of reporting incidents. This year, CAIR-LA has
conducted more than 75 "Know Your Rights" workshops relating to law enforcement
interactions and travel, he said.

Sohil Nader, an Irvine security guard, is among those who contacted CAIR-LA
after an interviewer at a large security company refused to hire him because he
wouldn't get rid of his beard.

"I saw others in that company who had long beards but who probably weren't
Muslim or the same skin color as I was," Nader said. "What does shaving my beard
have to do with my education, experience, qualifications or ability to do a job
well?"

Nader said he used CAIR-LA's help to file a complaint against the company with
the Department of Fair Housing and Employment because he wants the business held
accountable.

Discrimination

South Los Angeles resident Yousef Turshani said the FBI came knocking on his
door after a family camping trip during which he and three other men were seen
praying. Someone had told the authorities that the men were making "X" signs on
the dirt with sticks in Angeles National Forest and talking about jihad, a holy
war that Islamist terrorists claim to wage against nonbelievers.

Turshani, a pediatrician with Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, says he was shocked
when FBI agents contacted him and his friends.

"Our only offense was we were camping while Muslim," he said.

Turshani and his friends approached CAIR-LA and asked for a meeting with the FBI
with a CAIR representative present. The issue was resolved after the 10-minute
meeting when FBI officials realized that the complaint was without merit, he
said.

While hate crimes and hate incidents receive the most public attention, stories
of people like Turshani who face discrimination are less known, said Rusty
Kennedy, CEO of the Orange County Human Relations Council.

"Immigration and travel have been large issues in the last year nationwide,
particularly with regard to Syrian refugees and those traveling from
Muslim-majority countries," he said. "And those attitudes play out locally with
regard to hate crimes and hate incidents."

Muslim residents of Los Angeles County are being targeted with stereotyping,
aggression, hostility and violence, said Robin Toma, executive director of the
Los Angeles County Commission on Human Relations.

"We know that hate crimes are only a small part of the type of hostility and
discrimination Muslim Americans have to deal with," he said.

Toma says the discrimination the Muslim American community faces is real.

"These incidents are well documented and we are looking at a clear trend showing
an increase in prejudice that you can see across many reports filed by community
organizations and law enforcement," he said. "The issue is not about whether
these reports are made up. The much greater problem is that these incidents are
underreported."

CAIR itself has been the target of verbal and written attacks. Right-wing
websites and blogs often refer to CAIR as a "terrorist organization."

CAIR, along with the Muslim American Society, is listed as a terrorist
organization by the United Arab Emirates. But that nation's designated list of
terrorist groups leaves out well-established organizations such as Hamas and
Hezbollah.

Stateside, CAIR has never been charged with any criminal activity and operates
with a tax-exempt status. The U.S. government does not list CAIR as a terrorist
organization.

Fouladi says the criticism of CAIR is another example of Islamophobia and an
attempt to undermine its credibility as an advocacy group.

"It's our job to continually push back and shed light on these issues our
community members are experiencing, especially under this administration," he
said. "This data is important because it is something we can use to show
policymakers that discrimination is a real issue. No matter how people attack
us, this issue has to be addressed."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Access to license-plate data possible, court rules

BYLINE: Sudhin Thanawala; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 638 words

ABSTRACT

The California Supreme Court has ruled that there may be ways to require the
release of data collected by automated license plate readers

FULL TEXT

SAN FRANCISCO >> It would violate people's privacy to publicly release raw data
collected by automated license plate readers that police use to determine
whether vehicles are linked to crime, but there may be ways to make the
information anonymous that would require it to be disclosed, the California
Supreme Court said Thursday.

The ruling came in a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and
Electronic Frontier Foundation that sought a week's worth of license plate data
- millions of records - from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and Los
Angeles Police Department to "understand and educate the public on the risks to
privacy posed" by license plate readers in the area.

A unanimous Supreme Court ordered a lower court to consider methods to make the
data anonymous and determine whether any of those efforts would require its
release.

Law enforcement agencies nationwide are using license plate readers attached to
patrol cars and objects such as traffic signals. The devices indiscriminately
capture images of license plates that come into view. The information is passed
through databases to instantly check whether the car or driver has been linked
to crime.

Officials say the scans are useful in tracking stolen vehicles, missing children
and people wanted by police. For instance, authorities chasing a suspect in a
fatal shooting at Delta State University in Mississippi in 2015 used an
automatic license plate reader to track the man as he traveled across state
lines.

Privacy advocates say the systems overwhelmingly capture innocent drivers,
recording information about their locations that could be used to track their
habits and whereabouts.

The ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation said the agencies hold the data for
years, allowing officers to use it in future investigations.

The state Supreme Court rejected a lower court's decision that the scans are
part of law enforcement investigations, and therefore exempt from disclosure.

The justices said the scans were "not conducted as part of a targeted inquiry
into any particular crime or crimes."

"It is hard to imagine that the Legislature intended for the
records-of-investigations exemption to reach the large volume of data that plate
scanners and other similar technologies now enable agencies to collect
indiscriminately," Associate Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.

Peter Bibring, a senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Southern California, said
that part of the ruling was key.

"The court recognized that technology does make a difference and the exemption
for police investigations wasn't intended to encompass the kind of
indiscriminate collection of information that license plate readers make
possible today," he said.

Bibring said the ACLU wants to see whether law enforcement agencies in Los
Angeles are focusing license plate readers on lower-income communities of color
or communities of a particular religious persuasion.

A message to the Los Angeles city attorney was not immediately returned. The Los
Angeles County counsel's office didn't immediately have comment.

The court, however, said the raw data would fall into a catchall exemption under
the state's Public Records Act that allows agencies not to disclose records when
the public interest in not releasing them clearly outweighs the interest in
disclosing them.

But the justices strongly signaled there were ways to redact the data to avoid
that concern and sent the case back to a lower court.

Bibring said he was confident the lower court would be able to release the
information in some form "that sheds light on how police actually use license
plate readers and the privacy impacts of this surveillance program."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             July 13, 2017 Thursday

2 sentenced in 2015 Pasadena shooting

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 303 words

ABSTRACT

PASADENA >> Two men have received lengthy prison terms for the gang-related
shooting of another man outside a Pasadena chicken restaurant in late 2015,
officials said.

FULL TEXT

PASADENA >> Two men received lengthy prison terms for the gang-related
shootingoutside a Pasadena chicken restaurant in late 2015, officials said.

Robert "Chucky" Julio Arnaud, 28, of Los Angeles on Wednesday received 60 years
to life in state prison for the Dec. 29, 2015, drive-by shooting outside a
restaurant in the800 block of North Lake Avenue, Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago said.

A juryconvicted him May 12of attempted murder in connection with the shooting,
which officials said targeted rival gang members, according to Pasadena police
officials and prosecutors. The jury also found true the special allegations that
Arnaud personally used a gun in the crime, and that the crime was gang-related.

A 21-year-old man was wounded in the leg in the shooting, and a 19-year-old man
escaped injury, police said.

Detectives found and arrested Arnaud in connection with the shooting the
following day.

They also arrestedJose "Flaco" Garcia, 34, of Azusa on suspicion of trying to
help Arnaud conceal the crime.

Garcia pleaded "no contest" on Tuesday to one count of acting as an accessory to
the shooting after the fact and one count of possession of a firearm by a
previously convicted felon, according to Santiago.

Officials caught Garcia in the process of washing Arnaud's car the day after the
shooting, "to remove any gunshot residue from the inside and outside of the
vehicle," Santiago said.

Following his plea, Garcia was immediately sentenced to 17 years and four months
in state prison.

If convicted at trial, Garcia could have faced a maximum sentence of 25 years to
life in state prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 13, 2017 Thursday

2 sentenced in 2015 Pasadena shooting

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 303 words

ABSTRACT

PASADENA >> Two men have received lengthy prison terms for the gang-related
shooting of another man outside a Pasadena chicken restaurant in late 2015,
officials said.

FULL TEXT

PASADENA >> Two men received lengthy prison terms for the gang-related
shootingoutside a Pasadena chicken restaurant in late 2015, officials said.

Robert "Chucky" Julio Arnaud, 28, of Los Angeles on Wednesday received 60 years
to life in state prison for the Dec. 29, 2015, drive-by shooting outside a
restaurant in the800 block of North Lake Avenue, Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago said.

A juryconvicted him May 12of attempted murder in connection with the shooting,
which officials said targeted rival gang members, according to Pasadena police
officials and prosecutors. The jury also found true the special allegations that
Arnaud personally used a gun in the crime, and that the crime was gang-related.

A 21-year-old man was wounded in the leg in the shooting, and a 19-year-old man
escaped injury, police said.

Detectives found and arrested Arnaud in connection with the shooting the
following day.

They also arrestedJose "Flaco" Garcia, 34, of Azusa on suspicion of trying to
help Arnaud conceal the crime.

Garcia pleaded "no contest" on Tuesday to one count of acting as an accessory to
the shooting after the fact and one count of possession of a firearm by a
previously convicted felon, according to Santiago.

Officials caught Garcia in the process of washing Arnaud's car the day after the
shooting, "to remove any gunshot residue from the inside and outside of the
vehicle," Santiago said.

Following his plea, Garcia was immediately sentenced to 17 years and four months
in state prison.

If convicted at trial, Garcia could have faced a maximum sentence of 25 years to
life in state prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              July 3, 2017 Monday

FBI data show rise in hate crimes in SoCal, U.S.

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 688 words

ABSTRACT

CSUSB's Brian Levin has released his latest hate crime stats, . He released his
hate crime numbers not too long ago, and we didn't have anyone available to
write them up. But he alerted us that he's attending a DOJ Hate Crime
subcommittee hearing tomorrow, and he could relay info and photos to us. Think
it might be a good to get back to the numbers and see what the trends are here
in So Cal given the new administration and the recent ACT rallies, etc.

FULL TEXT

It's not your imagination: Hate crimes were up last year across the nation,
state and closer to home.

In 2016, 230 hate crimes were committed in Los Angeles, according to the FBI, up
15 percent over the year before. In Orange County, there were 50 hate crimes, up
13.6 percent over the year before. Of the local communities in the FBI's 2016
hate crimes statistics, Long Beach saw a decrease in hate crimes, with eight
committed in 2016, down 33 percent from the year before.

Nationally, the FBI reports 2,173 hate crimes were committed nationally in 2016,
up 8.81 percent from the year before.

Police data assembled by theCenter for the Study of Hate and Extremism at Cal
State San Bernardinolooks at a sample of 25 large cities and counties across the
United States, including nine of the 10 most populous cities.

"In 25 major cities and counties throughout the United States for 2016, we found
a 6 percent increase," said Brian Levin, director of the Center for the Study of
Hate and Extremism. "However, in California, it went up 14 percent."

The cities of San Bernardino and Riverside don't have the population to be
included in the report, but the center's data show

that Riverside County had nine hate incidents last year, up from eight the year
before, a 12 percent increase. San Bernardino had eight hate crimes in 2016, a
100 percent leap from the four incidents in 2015.

And the trend is even more worrying.

"For California, we can confidently state that when the full data is released by
the attorney general, that we'll have the first back-to-back increases since
1996," Levin said. "Nationally and in California, we're at multiyear highs, but
well-off the record high of 2001. After years of declines, we're seeing
back-to-back increases, so that's a concern."

Last yearalso looks to be the second consecutive year that hate crimes went up
faster in California than the rest of the country.

Levin presented the data Thursday in Washington, D.C., at a summit of the Hate
Crimes Subcommittee, a subcommittee of the presidentialTask Force on Crime
Reduction and Public Safety.

"There was a definite election-time spike in places like San Jose, Los Angeles,
but also New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Montgomery County,
Maryland," he said. "And the increase in many of these places was dramatic."

Specifically, hate crimes against gays and Muslims went up right around the
November election.

Levin repeatedly noted that these spikes aren't necessarily all-time highs in
hate crimes.

"During the 1980s, in those places that did gather data, we had higher hate
crime rates," he said. "But we don't have data from many of these places."

And even now, it's hard to trust all of the reported data.

"We're seeing a really uneven response to data collection," with whole states
like Louisiana reporting no hate crimes in 2016.

The center goes beyond police data to survey communities across the country and
estimates less than half of actual incidents are reported to the police as hate
crimes.

"In places where we have data on incidents, they're rising faster than official
hate crimes," Levin said. "It's socially acceptable in many places to be an over
the top overt bigot, as long as you're not committing any crimes."

Levin said he was pleased by Thursday's summit, at whichAttorney General Jeff
Sessions vowed to zealously enforce federal hate crime lawshe opposed as
senator.

"This summit represents a positive first step in what appears to be a sustained
effort by the Justice Department to reach out to advocates and subject-matter
experts in setting their policy," Levin said. "If we can continue what started
yesterday, this is an important first step."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 12, 2017
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OVER ON DIGITAL

SECTION: TV LIFE;NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 830 words


OVER ON DIGITAL 5STAR 6.00 Teleshopping 8.00 Access 8.15 Gilmore Girls 9.15 My
Wife and Kids 9.45 My Wife and Kids 10.15 My Wife and Kids 10.45 My Wife and
Kids 11.15 The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. American comedy about a streetwise
teenager staying with wealthy relatives in their Los Angeles mansion. 11.45 The
Fresh Prince of Bel-Air 12.15 The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air 12.45 The Fresh Prince
of Bel-Air 1.15 TBA 3.15 TBA 5.15 TBA 7.15 TBA 9.00 TBA 11.00 TBA 1.00 The
Shannara Chronicles 2.00 Empire 3.00 Channel Zero 5USA 6.00 Teleshopping 9.00
Catch a Contractor 9.20 CSI: NY 10.20 Longmire 11.20 Longmire 12.20 FILM:
Columbo: Murder with Too Many Notes (2000) Detective drama. 2.05 NCIS 3.00 NCIS
4.00 NCIS 5.00 NCIS 6.00 Longmire 7.00 Longmire 8.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 9.00
NCIS: Los Angeles 10.00 Law & Order: Special Victims Unit 10.55 Law & Order:
Special Victims Unit.

The team targets a photographer. 11.55 Law & Order: Special Victims Unit 12.55
Law & Order: Special Victims Unit 2.00 Cedar Cove 3.00 Cedar Cove ITV2 6.00
Totally Bonkers Guinness World Records 6.50 Emmerdale 9.20 Coronation Street
12.15 Take Me Out 1.25 You've Been Framed! Gold 2.00 FILM: Beethoven's 2nd
(1993) Comedy sequel. 3.50 FILM: Step Up (2006) Romantic dance drama. 6.00 FILM:
Jack the Giant Slayer (2013) Fantasy adventure, starring Nicholas Hoult. 8.15
FILM: Quantum of Solace (2008) James Bond thriller, starring Daniel Craig. 10.30
Celebrity Juice 11.20 Family Guy 11.45 Family Guy 12.15 Family Guy 12.45 Family
Guy. US comedy.

SKY ONE 6.00 Wild Things 7.00 The F1 Show 8.00 Supergirl 9.00 The Flash 10.00
Soccer AM 11.30 Live Premier League 12.30 TBA 1.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 2.00 NCIS:
Los Angeles 3.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 4.00 TBA 5.00 TBA 6.00 TBA 7.00 The Simpsons
7.30 The Simpsons 8.00 A League of Their Own 9.00 Living the Dream. The park's
septic tank explodes. 10.00 TBA 11.00 The Russell Howard Hour 12.00 TBA 1.00 TBA
1.30 Arrow 2.30 DC's Legends of Tomorrow 3.30 TBA 4.00 Stargate Atlantis 5.00
Stargate Atlantis SKY ATLANTIC 6.00 FILM: Dinosaur 13 (2014) The true story of
one of history's greatest dinosaur discoveries. 8.00 CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation 9.00 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 10.00 CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation 11.00 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 12.00 CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation 1.00 TBA 5.00 Without a Trace 6.00 Without a Trace 7.00 Without a
Trace 8.00 Without a Trace 9.00 Game of Thrones 10.00 Game of Thrones 11.10 Game
of Thrones 12.20 Babylon Berlin 1.20 Babylon Berlin FILM4 11.00 Song of the Sea
(2014) Animated fantasy. 1.00 Picture Perfect (1997) Romantic comedy, with
Jennifer Aniston and Jay Mohr. 3.05 Just Wright (2010) Romantic comedy, starring
Queen Latifah and Common. 5.05 Rio (2011) Animated comedy. 6.55 Dante's Peak
(1997) Disaster movie, starring Pierce Brosnan. 9.00 Darkman (1990) Thriller,
starring Liam Neeson. 11.00 Aliens (1986) Sci-fi thriller sequel. 2.05 Lovelace
(2013) Biopic of adult film star Linda Lovelace, starring Amanda Seyfried.

SKY LIVING 6.00 TBA 7.00 Stop, Search, Seize 8.00 Stop, Search, Seize 9.00 Stop,
Search, Seize 10.00 Stop, Search, Seize 11.00 Stop, Search, Seize 12.00
Elementary 1.00 Elementary 2.00 Elementary 3.00 Elementary 4.00 Elementary 5.00
Nothing to Declare 6.00 Nothing to Declare 7.00 Nothing to Declare 8.00 Nothing
to Declare 8.30 Nothing to Declare 9.00 World's Most Evil Killers 10.00 Criminal
Minds 11.00 Criminal Minds 12.00 Criminal Minds 1.00 Criminal Minds 2.00 Grey's
Anatomy 3.00 Bangkok Embassy E4 6.00 Rules of Engagement 7.00 Rules of
Engagement 7.30 How I Met Your Mother 8.30 Made in Chelsea 9.30 Couples Come
Dine with Me 11.30 How I Met Your Mother 12.30 Brooklyn Nine-Nine 1.30 TBA 4.00
The Goldbergs 4.30 The Goldbergs 5.30 The Goldbergs 6.30 The Big Bang Theory
7.30 The Big Bang Theory 8.00 The Big Bang Theory 9.00 TBA 11.30 Gogglebox 12.30
Gogglebox 1.30 Naked Attraction 2.30 Rude Tube 3.30 Gogglebox 4.30 Rules of
Engagement 5.00 Rules of Engagement. Comedy.

CBS ACTION 6.00 Teleshopping 8.30 The Key of David 9.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 10.00
NCIS: Los Angeles 11.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 12.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 1.00 NCIS: Los
Angeles 2.00 Gunsmoke 3.00 Gunsmoke 4.00 Bonanza 5.00 Bonanza 6.10 FILM: Once
Upon a Christmas (2000) Family drama. 8.00 The High Chaparral. Billy Blue is
captured by the Apaches. 9.00 NCIS 10.00 NCIS 11.00 NCIS 11.55 NCIS 12.50 NCIS
1.40 FILM: American Ninja (1985) Martial arts adventure. 3.30 Walker, Texas
Ranger 4.20 Walker, Texas Ranger CBS REALITY 6.00 Teleshopping 9.00 Judge Judy
9.55 Judge Judy 10.45 Judge Judy 11.35 Judge Judy 12.25 Judge Judy 1.15 Judge
Judy 2.05 Judge Judy 2.55 Judge Judy 3.20 Judge Judy 3.45 Judge Judy 4.10 Judge
Judy 4.35 Judge Judy 5.00 Hoarders 6.00 Hoarders 7.00 Donal MacIntyre: Unsolved
8.00 48 Hours: Mystery 9.00 Click for Murder 10.00 Click for Murder 11.00 The
Investigators 12.00 Scandal Made Me Famous 1.00 Click for Murder 2.00 Click for
Murder 3.00 Teleshopping 4.00 Dog and Beth: On the Hunt 4.45 Cops

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2017 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

California governor candidates back criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: C,C; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 385 words

ABSTRACT

Three Democrats running for California governor are calling for criminal justice
policies that focus on youth development and support for crime victims over
tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> Three Democrats running for California governor called Tuesday for
criminal justice policies that focus on youth development and support for crime
victims over tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration.

Speaking separately at a Sacramento criminal justice conference, Lt. Gov. Gavin
Newsom, former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and state Treasurer John
Chiang each portrayed themselves as the strongest champion for liberal public
safety reforms.

"I was taking on prison building in 1994 when my voice was one of the few
challenging the fact that we were putting more people in prison than any place
in the world," Villaraigosa said. "And I think it's time for us to invest in
people."

Villaraigosa touted initiatives he advanced as Los Angeles' mayor to focus on
supporting young people who are at risk of joining gangs.

The conference was organized by Crime Survivors for Safety and Justice, a
left-leaning advocacy group that lobbies for boosting spending on preventing
crime, victims' services and rehabilitating offenders.

Newsom said he has publicly supported ballot measures to reduce sentences for
some crimes, legalize marijuana, require background checks for ammunition sales
and eliminate the death penalty.

"Our policies have been dictated through the prism of anger and fear," Newsom
said. "And they've been exploited for political advantage."

Chiang said his family was "struck deeply by crime" after his sister was
abducted and killed in 1999.

"My family, we're Catholic. We believe in redemption. We believe in hope,"
Chiang said. "We also believe in being serious on crime. You want people in the
right place, but we're trying to build a better society."

He said the state should focus on educating children and addressing poverty to
prevent crime.

Newsom, Chiang and Villaraigosa are the best-known candidates in a crowded field
of contenders looking to replace term-limited Gov. Jerry Brown after the 2018
election.

Former state schools chief Delaine Eastin, a Democrat, and businessman John Cox,
a Republican, have also announced plans to run.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Governor candidates back criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 385 words

ABSTRACT

Three Democrats running for California governor are calling for criminal justice
policies that focus on youth development and support for crime victims over
tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> Three Democrats running for California governor called Tuesday for
criminal justice policies that focus on youth development and support for crime
victims over tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration.

Speaking separately at a Sacramento criminal justice conference, Lt. Gov. Gavin
Newsom, former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and state Treasurer John
Chiang each portrayed themselves as the strongest champion for liberal public
safety reforms.

"I was taking on prison building in 1994 when my voice was one of the few
challenging the fact that we were putting more people in prison than any place
in the world," Villaraigosa said. "And I think it's time for us to invest in
people."

Villaraigosa touted initiatives he advanced as Los Angeles' mayor to focus on
supporting young people who are at risk of joining gangs.

The conference was organized by Crime Survivors for Safety and Justice, a
left-leaning advocacy group that lobbies for boosting spending on preventing
crime, victims' services and rehabilitating offenders.

Newsom said he has publicly supported ballot measures to reduce sentences for
some crimes, legalize marijuana, require background checks for ammunition sales
and eliminate the death penalty.

"Our policies have been dictated through the prism of anger and fear," Newsom
said. "And they've been exploited for political advantage."

Chiang said his family was "struck deeply by crime" after his sister was
abducted and killed in 1999.

"My family, we're Catholic. We believe in redemption. We believe in hope,"
Chiang said. "We also believe in being serious on crime. You want people in the
right place, but we're trying to build a better society."

He said the state should focus on educating children and addressing poverty to
prevent crime.

Newsom, Chiang and Villaraigosa are the best-known candidates in a crowded field
of contenders looking to replace term-limited Gov. Jerry Brown after the 2018
election.

Former state schools chief Delaine Eastin, a Democrat, and businessman John Cox,
a Republican, have also announced plans to run.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2017 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

California governor candidates back criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 385 words

ABSTRACT

Three Democrats running for California governor are calling for criminal justice
policies that focus on youth development and support for crime victims over
tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> Three Democrats running for California governor called Tuesday for
criminal justice policies that focus on youth development and support for crime
victims over tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration.

Speaking separately at a Sacramento criminal justice conference, Lt. Gov. Gavin
Newsom, former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and state Treasurer John
Chiang each portrayed themselves as the strongest champion for liberal public
safety reforms.

"I was taking on prison building in 1994 when my voice was one of the few
challenging the fact that we were putting more people in prison than any place
in the world," Villaraigosa said. "And I think it's time for us to invest in
people."

Villaraigosa touted initiatives he advanced as Los Angeles' mayor to focus on
supporting young people who are at risk of joining gangs.

The conference was organized by Crime Survivors for Safety and Justice, a
left-leaning advocacy group that lobbies for boosting spending on preventing
crime, victims' services and rehabilitating offenders.

Newsom said he has publicly supported ballot measures to reduce sentences for
some crimes, legalize marijuana, require background checks for ammunition sales
and eliminate the death penalty.

"Our policies have been dictated through the prism of anger and fear," Newsom
said. "And they've been exploited for political advantage."

Chiang said his family was "struck deeply by crime" after his sister was
abducted and killed in 1999.

"My family, we're Catholic. We believe in redemption. We believe in hope,"
Chiang said. "We also believe in being serious on crime. You want people in the
right place, but we're trying to build a better society."

He said the state should focus on educating children and addressing poverty to
prevent crime.

Newsom, Chiang and Villaraigosa are the best-known candidates in a crowded field
of contenders looking to replace term-limited Gov. Jerry Brown after the 2018
election.

Former state schools chief Delaine Eastin, a Democrat, and businessman John Cox,
a Republican, have also announced plans to run.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

California governor candidates back criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 385 words

ABSTRACT

Three Democrats running for California governor are calling for criminal justice
policies that focus on youth development and support for crime victims over
tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> Three Democrats running for California governor called Tuesday for
criminal justice policies that focus on youth development and support for crime
victims over tough-on-crime measures that increase incarceration.

Speaking separately at a Sacramento criminal justice conference, Lt. Gov. Gavin
Newsom, former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and state Treasurer John
Chiang each portrayed themselves as the strongest champion for liberal public
safety reforms.

"I was taking on prison building in 1994 when my voice was one of the few
challenging the fact that we were putting more people in prison than any place
in the world," Villaraigosa said. "And I think it's time for us to invest in
people."

Villaraigosa touted initiatives he advanced as Los Angeles' mayor to focus on
supporting young people who are at risk of joining gangs.

The conference was organized by Crime Survivors for Safety and Justice, a
left-leaning advocacy group that lobbies for boosting spending on preventing
crime, victims' services and rehabilitating offenders.

Newsom said he has publicly supported ballot measures to reduce sentences for
some crimes, legalize marijuana, require background checks for ammunition sales
and eliminate the death penalty.

"Our policies have been dictated through the prism of anger and fear," Newsom
said. "And they've been exploited for political advantage."

Chiang said his family was "struck deeply by crime" after his sister was
abducted and killed in 1999.

"My family, we're Catholic. We believe in redemption. We believe in hope,"
Chiang said. "We also believe in being serious on crime. You want people in the
right place, but we're trying to build a better society."

He said the state should focus on educating children and addressing poverty to
prevent crime.

Newsom, Chiang and Villaraigosa are the best-known candidates in a crowded field
of contenders looking to replace term-limited Gov. Jerry Brown after the 2018
election.

Former state schools chief Delaine Eastin, a Democrat, and businessman John Cox,
a Republican, have also announced plans to run.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Detroit man and Los Angeles man indicted in separate drug-related
cases

LENGTH: 354  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US Department of Justice has issued the following news release:



 A Detroit, Michigan man and Los Angeles, California man have been indicted on
drug charges, Acting United States Attorney Betsy Steinfeld Jividen, announced.



 Aaron Deshawn Campbell, age 28, of Detroit, Michigan, was indicted today by a
federal grand jury for one count of "Distribution of Cocaine Base in Proximity
of a Protected Location," one count of "Distribution of Cocaine Base," and one
count of "Distribution of Heroin."  The crimes are alleged to have occurred in
May and June of 2015 in Monongalia County.

 Campbell faces up to 40 years in prison and a fine of up to $2,000,000 for the
distribution of cocaine near a protected location count and up to 20 years in
prison and a $1,000,000 fine for each of the other counts. Under the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the
seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the
defendant.

 Assistant U.S. Attorney Zelda E. Wesley is prosecuting the case on behalf of
the government. The Mon Metro Drug and Violent Crime Task Force, a HIDTA-funded
program, investigated.

 In a separate case, Cesar Navarro, age 38, of Los Angeles, California, was
indicted today by a federal grand jury for one count of "Conspiracy to
Distribute Methamphetamine." The crime allegedly took place between September
2014 and December 2016 in Grant County.

 Navarro faces up to 20 years in prison and a $1,000,000 fine. Under the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the
seriousness of the offenses and the prior criminal history, if any, of the
defendant.

 Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Warner is prosecuting the case on behalf of the
government. The United States Postal Inspection Service investigated.<br
style="box-sizing: border-box;" />
  <br style="box-sizing: border-box;" />
 An indictment is merely an accusation. A defendant is presumed innocent unless
and until proven guilty.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                           October 25, 2017 Wednesday

Vegas shooters brother facing child porn charges

BYLINE: Wire Services

LENGTH: 580 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bruce Douglas Paddock, 58, was taken into custody at a nursing
facility in the 5300 block of Laurel Canyon Boulevard, in the Valley Village
neighborhood, and booked Wednesday morning.


By Kate Mather and Joseph Serna | Los Angeles Times

LOS ANGELES  A brother of Las Vegas mass shooter Stephen Paddock was arrested in
Los Angeles on Wednesday on suspicion of possessing hundreds of images of child
pornography, according to authorities.

Television news footage showed Paddock in a wheelchair being loaded into the
back of a van by Los Angeles Police Department officers.

Documents filed Tuesday in Los Angeles County Superior Court outlined 20
criminal charges against Paddock, all related to possession of child pornography
or the sexual exploitation of children. The felony complaint for the arrest
warrant accused Paddock of having more than 600 pornographic images of children
or youths, including 10 or more images showing a child younger than 12.

The investigation of Paddock began after evidence was found in a Sun Valley
business where he had been squatting, the LAPD said in a statement. The evidence
was found after Paddock was evicted, police said.

Paddock was homeless at the time and couldnt be found, the LAPD said, adding
that investigations recently tracked him to the North Hollywood facility where
he was arrested Wednesday.

The LAPD released a photo of Paddock in case there may be victims of unreported
incidents, who might see it and contact authorities, the department said.

Josh Rubenstein, an LAPD spokesman, said Paddocks arrest was the result of an
independent investigation by the LAPD and not related to the deadly shooting
rampage in Las Vegas.

Theres no connection, he said.

On the night of Oct. 1, 64-year-old Stephen Paddock fired on the crowd at a
country musical festival from his hotel room in Las Vegas. Paddock killed 58
people in the meticulously planned attack and wounded hundreds more before he
shot and killed himself. His motivation remains a mystery, authorities say.

On Wednesday, Sandra Breault, a spokeswoman for the FBI in Las Vegas, declined
to comment on Bruce Paddocks arrest.

Bruce Paddock was apprehended at a nursing home that offers patients long- and
short-term medical care. A spokeswoman for the facility confirmed the police
activity occurred there, but declined to comment on Paddock, citing patient
privacy laws.

The suspect is one of four brothers. Their father, Benjamin Hoskins Paddock, was
a convicted bank robber who was once placed on the FBIs Most Wanted list.

Bruce Paddock has had numerous run-ins with local law enforcement over the last
25 years, according to Los Angeles County criminal records.

In 1989, he was charged with assault and battery and criminal contempt of court,
although the charges were later dismissed, according to court records.

In 1993, Paddock was charged with annoying a child under 18 but was acquitted,
court records show.

Between 1994 and 1995, prosecutors accused Paddock of various property crimes
and driving without a license. He twice pleaded no contest to driving on a
suspended license and to tampering with a vehicle, according to court documents.

More recently, he was charged with burglary and petty theft while having a
previous conviction. He pleaded no contest to petty theft and the burglary
charge was dismissed, records show.

In separate cases in 2005 and 2006, Paddock was charged with making verbal
threats, vandalism and arson. He was convicted of making threats and vandalism
but the arson charges were dismissed.He was convicted of criminal contempt of
court in 2007, according to public records.

Paddock pleaded no contest to vandalism in 2014, court records show.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bruce Paddock the brother of the man behind the worst mass shooting in
modern US history, was arrested Wednesday on suspicion of having child
pornography. LAPD/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           October 25, 2017 Wednesday

Vegas shooters brother facing child porn charges

BYLINE: Wire Services

LENGTH: 580 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bruce Douglas Paddock, 58, was taken into custody at a nursing
facility in the 5300 block of Laurel Canyon Boulevard, in the Valley Village
neighborhood, and booked Wednesday morning.


By Kate Mather and Joseph Serna | Los Angeles Times

LOS ANGELES  A brother of Las Vegas mass shooter Stephen Paddock was arrested in
Los Angeles on Wednesday on suspicion of possessing hundreds of images of child
pornography, according to authorities.

Television news footage showed Paddock in a wheelchair being loaded into the
back of a van by Los Angeles Police Department officers.

Documents filed Tuesday in Los Angeles County Superior Court outlined 20
criminal charges against Paddock, all related to possession of child pornography
or the sexual exploitation of children. The felony complaint for the arrest
warrant accused Paddock of having more than 600 pornographic images of children
or youths, including 10 or more images showing a child younger than 12.

The investigation of Paddock began after evidence was found in a Sun Valley
business where he had been squatting, the LAPD said in a statement. The evidence
was found after Paddock was evicted, police said.

Paddock was homeless at the time and couldnt be found, the LAPD said, adding
that investigations recently tracked him to the North Hollywood facility where
he was arrested Wednesday.

The LAPD released a photo of Paddock in case there may be victims of unreported
incidents, who might see it and contact authorities, the department said.

Josh Rubenstein, an LAPD spokesman, said Paddocks arrest was the result of an
independent investigation by the LAPD and not related to the deadly shooting
rampage in Las Vegas.

Theres no connection, he said.

On the night of Oct. 1, 64-year-old Stephen Paddock fired on the crowd at a
country musical festival from his hotel room in Las Vegas. Paddock killed 58
people in the meticulously planned attack and wounded hundreds more before he
shot and killed himself. His motivation remains a mystery, authorities say.

On Wednesday, Sandra Breault, a spokeswoman for the FBI in Las Vegas, declined
to comment on Bruce Paddocks arrest.

Bruce Paddock was apprehended at a nursing home that offers patients long- and
short-term medical care. A spokeswoman for the facility confirmed the police
activity occurred there, but declined to comment on Paddock, citing patient
privacy laws.

The suspect is one of four brothers. Their father, Benjamin Hoskins Paddock, was
a convicted bank robber who was once placed on the FBIs Most Wanted list.

Bruce Paddock has had numerous run-ins with local law enforcement over the last
25 years, according to Los Angeles County criminal records.

In 1989, he was charged with assault and battery and criminal contempt of court,
although the charges were later dismissed, according to court records.

In 1993, Paddock was charged with annoying a child under 18 but was acquitted,
court records show.

Between 1994 and 1995, prosecutors accused Paddock of various property crimes
and driving without a license. He twice pleaded no contest to driving on a
suspended license and to tampering with a vehicle, according to court documents.

More recently, he was charged with burglary and petty theft while having a
previous conviction. He pleaded no contest to petty theft and the burglary
charge was dismissed, records show.

In separate cases in 2005 and 2006, Paddock was charged with making verbal
threats, vandalism and arson. He was convicted of making threats and vandalism
but the arson charges were dismissed.He was convicted of criminal contempt of
court in 2007, according to public records.

Paddock pleaded no contest to vandalism in 2014, court records show.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bruce Paddock the brother of the man behind the worst mass shooting in
modern US history, was arrested Wednesday on suspicion of having child
pornography. LAPD/Agence France-Presse via Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                              July 2, 2017 Sunday

Hate crimes rise across SoCal, U.S.;
CSUSB director of Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism presents data at
Washington summit on trend

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 688 words

ABSTRACT

CSUSB's Brian Levin has released his latest hate crime stats, . He released his
hate crime numbers not too long ago, and we didn't have anyone available to
write them up. But he alerted us that he's attending a DOJ Hate Crime
subcommittee hearing tomorrow, and he could relay info and photos to us. Think
it might be a good to get back to the numbers and see what the trends are here
in So Cal given the new administration and the recent ACT rallies, etc.

FULL TEXT

It's not your imagination: Hate crimes were up last year - across the nation,
state and closer to home.

In 2016, 230 hate crimes were committed in Los Angeles, according to the FBI, up
15 percent over the year before. In Orange County, there were 50 hate crimes, up
13.6 percent over the year before. Of the local communities in the FBI's 2016
hate crimes statistics, Long Beach saw a decrease in hate crimes, with eight
committed in 2016, down 33 percent from the year before.

Nationally, the FBI reports 2,173 hate crimes were committed nationally in 2016,
up 8.81 percent from the year before.

Police data assembled by theCenter for the Study of Hate and Extremism at Cal
State San Bernardinolooks at a sample of 25 large cities and counties across the
United States, including nine of the 10 most populous cities.

"In 25 major cities and counties throughout the United States for 2016, we found
a 6 percent increase," said Brian Levin, director of the Center for the Study of
Hate and Extremism. "However, in California, it went up 14 percent."

The cities of San Bernardino and Riverside don't have the population to be
included in the report, but the center's data show that Riverside County had 9
hate incidents last year, up from eight the year before, a 12 percent increase.
San Bernardino had eight hate crimes in 2016, a 100 percent leap from the four
incidents in 2015.

And the trend is even more worrying.

"For California, we can confidently state that when the full data is released by
the attorney general, that we'll have the first back-to-back increases since
1996," Levin said. "Nationally and in California, we're at multi-year highs, but
well-off the record high of 2001. After years of declines, we're seeing
back-to-back increases, so that's a concern."

Last yearalso looks to be the second consecutive year that hate crimes went up
faster in California than the rest of the country.

Levin presented the data Thursday in Washington, D.C., at a summit of the Hate
Crimes Subcommittee, a subcommittee of the presidentialTask Force on Crime
Reduction and Public Safety.

"There was a definite election-time spike in places like San Jose, Los Angeles,
but also New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Montgomery County,
Maryland," he said. "And the increase in many of these places was dramatic."

Specifically, hate crimes against gays and Muslims went up right around the
November election.

Levin repeatedly noted that these spikes aren't necessarily all-time highs in
hate crimes.

"During the 1980s, in those places that did gather data, we had higher hate
crime rates," he said. "But we don't have data from many of these places."

And even now, it's hard to trust all of the reported data.

"We're seeing a really uneven response to data collection," with whole states
like Louisiana reporting no hate crimes in 2016.

The center goes beyond police data to survey communities across the country and
estimates less than half of actual incidents are reported to the police as hate
crimes.

"In places where we have data on incidents, they're rising faster than official
hate crimes," Levin said. "It's socially acceptable in many places to be an over
the top overt bigot, as long as you're not committing any crimes."

Levin said he was pleased by Thursday's summit, at whichAttorney General Jeff
Sessions vowed to zealously enforce federal hate crime lawshe opposed as
senator.

"This summit represents a positive first step in what appears to be a sustained
effort by the Justice Department to reach out to advocates and subject-matter
experts in setting their policy," Levin said. "If we can continue what started
yesterday, this is an important first step."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday

Ex-cop convicted of murder from days as alleged gang member

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

LENGTH: 455 words


LOS ANGELES "" A reputed gang member who beat a murder charge decades ago and
went on to land a job as a police officer was convicted Thursday of the
30-year-old killing after DNA evidence put him at the crime scene.

Pierre Romain, 53, was convicted in Los Angeles Superior Court of first-degree
murder for a botched carjacking outside a Hollywood nightclub in June 1987.

Romain was trying to steal a customized 1984 Nissan 300 ZX that was identical to
a friend's car he had recently crashed, police said. He fatally shot Jade Clark
behind the wheel of the car and was struck in the arm by a shot returned by the
driver.

Romain was arrested shortly after the killing, but charges were dismissed
because of lack of evidence. At the time, investigators didn't have DNA science
to connect him to the bloody bullet fired by Clark that struck the killer.

Detective Rick Jackson, who investigated the original case, was working in the
cold case homicide unit when San Francisco police inquired about Romain in 2003
because he had applied for a job there. Romain was working at the time for the
Department of Defense as a sergeant providing security at Los Angeles Air Force
Base in El Segundo.

He was arrested when his DNA was detected on the slug recovered at the crime
scene.

Romain testified at trial that he had nothing to do with the shooting, had never
been to the nightclub and was not a member of the Rollin' 60s Crips, though he
said he later joined the gang in jail for self-preservation purposes, defense
lawyer Winston McKesson said.

"We challenged every aspect of the DA's case," McKesson said. "From motive to
DNA to pointing out who was the actual killer."

The defense pinned the crime on Romain's late brother, who died in 2011 and more
closely matched the description of the shooter, McKesson said. They also
disputed that a scar on Romain's arm was from a bullet and an expert testified
that his DNA could have come from a jacket of his often worn by his brother.

Romain, an Air Force veteran, had been a candidate for a job as a Los Angeles
police officer at the time of the shooting, but was later disqualified.

About a decade later, he was hired by the federal government after undergoing
background checks that revealed information about his arrest in the fatal
shooting, but showed the charges had been thrown out.

When he was charged with the killing in 2003, a spokeswoman for the base told
the Los Angeles Times that Air Force personnel had access to court files, but
not the LAPD case file.

He was fired after his arrest, McKesson said.

Romain faces a sentence of 27 years to life in prison when sentenced Sept. 15.

McKesson said he'll ask for a new trial and if that fails an appeal will be
filed.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2017 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                              April 2, 2017 Sunday

L.A. seeks sanctuary from the rule of law

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words


"Exactly what is a sanctuary city?"

That's what L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti and Los Angeles Police Department Chief
Charlie Beck want to know.

"We're looking for clarification," Chief Beck said.

The mayor and chief went to Washington last week to knock on the door of
President Trump's director of Homeland Security, John F. Kelly. After the
closed-door meeting, Dave Lapan, a spokesman for Homeland Security, said the
department is "working on a definition" but doesn't have a timeline.

This is wrong.

The mayor and chief are busy men. They can't hang around

Washington waiting for the feds to get their act together. So, to speed things
along, I'd like to offer the following definition of a sanctuary city:

"Sanctuary City (noun) 1. See Los Angeles."

The Trump administration has shoved the ultimate back-burner issue onto the
front burner. At long last we're having an honest debate about our broken
borders rather than the one-sided demagoguing that has maligned anyone opposed
to open borders as a racist and xenophobe.

Ironically, had we been allowed to have this conversation before the issue
reached critical mass, Donald Trump would still be a reality TV goofball rather
than a presidential goofball.

In broad terms, a sanctuary city is a city that does not care if a resident is
in the country illegally.

But Los Angeles went considerably past simple indifference. Our elected
officials, including the mayor, the City Council, the city attorney, our
representatives in Sacramento and Washington have all actively conspired to
subvert any attempt by the federal government to enforce our immigration laws.
They have passed laws, created policies and filed lawsuits in an effort to
further embed our illegal immigrant population into society.

Special Order 40, the infamous 1979 internal LAPD directive from then Chief
Daryl Gates, is the granddaddy of sanctuary city "laws" in America. I put "laws"
in quotes because Special Order 40 is not actually a law. It's a department
policy instructing officers not to initiate a stop based on suspicion of an
immigration violation.

Order 40 was created with the best of intentions. The hope was, if we took
deportation off the table, victims of crime and witnesses to crimes would not
fear going to the police.

That's not what happened.

Word spread quickly. Los Angeles became the destination for illegal immigrants.
Why not? The welcome mat was out.

L.A.'s illegal community mushroomed, and so did crime. In the decade before
Special Order 40, from 1970 to 1979, Los Angeles experienced 4,950 homicides. In
1992 alone, 13 years after Special Order 40 was supposed to make L.A. safer,
2,589 were murdered. Chief Beck still claims Special Order 40 makes L.A. safer.
Donald Trump is not the only one spewing "alternative facts."

As illegal immigrants spread across the land, local officials in other cities
looked to see how Los Angeles handled the problem. Sadly, they doubled-down on
our bad bet. They created their own versions of Special Order 40, further
entrenching a vulnerable, exploitable and needy population into their
communities while importing poverty, lowering the wages of working people and
sending crime rates through the roof.

But Los Angeles wasn't happy with just Special Order 40. Over the years our
various mayors and City Council members have labored to eliminate any
distinction between legal immigrants and illegal immigrants with a big assist
from our local news media, who similarly make no distinctions.

Here's a brief sampling of how local politicians poured gas on the fire:

March 21, 2013, Mayor Eric Garcetti reactivated the Office of Immigrant Affairs,
ostensibly to make the transition to a new life in America easier for
immigrants. The office not only makes no distinction between legal and illegal
immigrants, it openly advocates for legislative action at the state and national
level to erase as many distinctions as possible.

For example, SB 60, Councilman Gil Cedillo's dream-come- true, granted driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants. 605,000 were issued. Yet L.A. is still the
hit-and-run capital of America. Sandra Duran was struck and killed (allegedly)
by a five-time deportee and convicted felon, Estuardo Alvarado, simply the
latest documented case of a horrible crime committed by an undocumented
immigrant.

Los Angeles led the charge to OK major banks accepting Matricula Consular cards
to open accounts and receive home mortgages. You can't get any more embedded in
a community than that.

On July 7, 2014, Mayor Garcetti announced LAPD would not honor federal
immigration requests to detain inmates who might be deportable unless a federal
judge vetted the request. I wonder how Sandra Duran's family feels about that?

SB 1159 granted licenses to ply a trade in California regardless of immigration
status, further embedding our enormous illegal population and encouraging more
to come while forcing hairdressers and other licensed professionals into stiffer
competition resulting in lower wages.

Kevin de Leon, the president pro-tem of the California State Senate, announced
to the world "half my family is in the country illegally" and then confessed
they had fake (stolen?) Social Security cards and other fraudulent forms of ID.
Not that identity theft is problem, right? De Leon is the author of SB 54, a
bill that would make all of California an official sanctuary for illegal
immigrants.

Throw in Section 8 housing, Aid to Families With Dependant Children, in-state
tuition at the UC system, a push for universal health insurance regardless of
immigration status, and a cornucopia of other perks and benefits, and it's not
hard to figure out why so many have chosen to come here by any means necessary.

If the mayor and chief of police are still unclear about the definition of a
"sanctuary city," I can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

Doug McIntyre's column appears Sundays. Hear him weekdays 5-10 a.m. on KABC (790
AM). He can be reached at: Doug@DougMcIntyre.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday

'He had no right to be here at all';
Fiance of woman killed in crash, allegedly by an undocumented-migrant driver,
blasts sanctuary city policy

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox; gwilcox@scng.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 621 words

ABSTRACT

Hearing set for undocumentes immigrant accused of killing woman in crash

FULL TEXT

SAN FERNANDO >> The fiance of a woman killed allegedly by an undocumented
immigrant in a car crash last month railed against the system Tuesday after the
suspect, who federal officials have said was deported five times from the United
States, appeared in court for a preliminary hearing.

Estuardo Alvarado, 45, is accused of killing 42-year-old Sandra Duran of Arleta
after slamming into her car as he fled the scene of another collision. He is
charged with being intoxicated at the time.

Rodrigo Macias, Duran's fiance, was among about 30 of her family members and
friends who attended the brief hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court in San
Fernando.

"I was looking at the illegal alien who killed my fiancee. I'm very angry that
this could happen in a sanctuary city," Macias said referring to Los Angeles,
which is among about 400 jurisdictions across the country that have policies
that protect undocumented immigrants. "If this were not a sanctuary city, this
would not have happened."

Duran's family members comforted each other as Macias spoke.

"My kids don't have anyone to visit anymore," he said of his late fiancee's two
sons. "He had no right to be here at all."

Los Angeles has never officially declared itself a sanctuary city.

But as President Donald Trump's administration cracks down on undocumented
immigrants, L.A. leaders, including Mayor Eric Garcetti and LAPD Chief Charlie
Beck, have said the city has no plans to get involved in any deportation efforts
by the federal government.

The mayor offered his condolences Tuesday to Duran's family.

"My thoughts and prayers are with the family that lost a loved one in this
tragic accident, and I understand the anger and grief they are feeling,"
Garcetti said. "Protecting people in our city is my No. 1 priority - and that's
why I have asked the federal government to focus enforcement efforts on people
who have committed serious crimes and pose a clear threat to Angelenos' safety."

Duran's father, Santos Duran, said the family made it a point to attend
Tuesday's hearing.

"It was very important to see the person who took my daughter's life. It was not
easy for our family to go through this. She was here for 42 years and then taken
away from us. I just wanted to get this off my shoulders," he said. "It means a
lot to me as a father."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have said it wants to take
Alvarado into custody "when he is released by local authorities in order to
pursue follow-up enforcement action."

Santos Duran said he is not focused on Alvarado's immigration status.

"It doesn't matter. It could have been anyone," he said.

Sandra Duran was killed on the afternoon of Feb. 19 in North Hills, according to
the Los Angeles Police Department.

Alvarado was driving south on Sepulveda Boulevard and hit a parked car while
trying to pass traffic, according to the LAPD. Police said he stopped briefly
then fled the scene at a high rate of speed and broadsided Duran's car near
Sepulveda and Plummer Street.

She died at the scene.

The Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office has charged Alvarado with five
counts, including murder and gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated.

Alvarado - a Mexican national - pleaded not guilty to each of the five felony
charges during a previous court appearance.

Tuesday's hearing was brief.

Alvarado, a short man with a gray beard and thinning hair, was led into the
courtroom's holding pen and stood behind a steel mesh screen for the proceeding.

Neither Deputy District Attorney Kaveh Faturechi nor public defender Bart Seemen
made extensive comments.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             August 14, 2017 Monday

Critics: Prop. 47 failing to make good;
Some say the goal of helping drug addicts has not been achieved

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou and Susan Abram; Staff Writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words

ABSTRACT

Nearly three years after a state law passed that kept low level offenders out of
jail to save money, some of the $103 million in funding in savings is just now
being distributed across Los Angeles County's cities for various programs. But
is it too little too late? Some city and county leaders are fuming at the rising
crime rates and drug addicted related homelessness that has grown in
neighborhoods. Where is the funding going and who will it help?

FULL TEXT

Nearly three years after voters passeda state law intended to save money by
keeping low-level offenders out of jail, $103 million in savings has
beenaccumulated and will be distributed to two dozen California cities and
counties for related programs.

But as local leaders prepare to spend their share of the money, some say
Proposition 47 destroyed law and order. Others say that, in time, the law will
help people.

Known as the Safe Neighborhoods and Schools Act, Proposition 47 allows six
nonviolent felonies - such as simple drug possession or petty theft under $950-
to be changed to misdemeanors on old criminal records. The goal was to save
costs by jailing fewer people, but also generate money for school truancy
prevention and dropout rate reduction, victim services, and mental health and
substance abuse treatment. It also allows some people to be

resentenced for crimes they committed before the measure took effect.

More than 500,000 people in Los Angeles County are eligible to have felonies on
their records reduced to misdemeanors under Proposition 47.

But some say the money won't fix what the measure took away: the threat of
incarceration that steers more drug offenders into treatment.

Too many people take advantage of the lack of accountability, said Robert Sass,
vice president for the Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs.

"Prop. 47 has not only sacrificed law-abiding residents, but it also has yet to
deliver on its intended goal of changing the behavior of drug addicts and
thieves," Sass said.

He and members of other groups, such as the Association of Los Angeles Deputy
District Attorneys, say they see an increase in crime fueled by drug addiction.

"Drug courts across the state collapsed when incarceration was removed as a
consequence of not enrolling and completing a drug treatment program," Sass
said. "Releasing thieves to commit more crimes and allowing drug offenders to
roam freely in the community without mandating and imposing treatment does
absolutely nothing to diminish criminal behavior. It increases crime, and it is
simply reckless."

Mary Clare Molidor, chief of the L.A. City Attorney's Office's criminal and
special litigation branch, told City Council officials last week that drug
treatment enrollment "has just plummeted."

She added that there has been an "incredibly high bench warrant rate on drug
offenders," even for those who already had agreed to enter treatment. Judges
issue bench warrants for people who fail to appear in court.

Ivor Pine, a spokesman for City Attorney Mike Feuer's office, said staffers
looked at 200 cases in which people pleaded to Proposition 47 drug charges
between October 2015 and January 2016. In those cases, 75 percent resulted in
bench warrants issued following arraignment.

Peter Espinoza, director of the L.A. County Office of Diversion and Re-entry,
sees hope for what many say is a flawed law.

"We believe we'll have measurable outcomes," Espinoza said.

His office recently received $20 millionin Proposition 47 fundingto reduce
recidivism among former prisoners and fund rehabilitation programs for those
with a history of mental health or substance use.

Those programs are voluntary and mandated, said Espinosa, a former Los Angeles
County Superior Court judge. Leaning on his experience as a judge, he noted that
forcing people into treatment programs doesn't always work.

Whatever got them to the point of treatment in the first place, doesn't always
get resolved, especially among people with mental illness, he said. Linking
former inmates to community programs does work, if city and county departments
create strong relationships, he added.

Still, the potential for fixing flaws in the way the law is playing out in
California offers the prospect of positive reform.

"This is a fresh look at criminal justice and the intersection of mental health
and those with drug addictions," Espinosa said. "It's an exciting time."

Backers of Proposition 47 have complained that funding has come too slowly and
is insufficient.

Los Angeles City Councilman Joe Buscaino, a former senior lead officer for the
Los Angeles Police Department, said he's a "staunch supporter" of Proposition
47. But after the long wait, the dollars coming to the city are still a "drop in
the bucket," he said.

As a former officer, he was "arresting the same folks, and these individuals who
I was arresting were not getting the proper treatment necessary to get their
lives back in order."

More funds are needed for outreach teams and for "faith-based organizations and
job placement centers, so that (offenders) don't go back to the lives that
they've led of breaking into cars, of shooting up dope," he added.

Councilman Bob Blumenfield, who has contended with complaints of more open drug
use in his west San Fernando Valley district, said he's interested in seeing
Proposition 47 reformed.

He said it's taken three years for the $100 million originally promised in 2014
to materialize, and "we are only now seeing a portion of the funds that we were
promised."

"That is not fair to our residents, and it is not fair to local municipalities
that work hard to keep our streets safe from crime," Blumenfield said.

Some are "exploiting Prop. 47 and using it as a revolving door to keep
committing crimes," he said. People addicted to drugs "are not being leveraged
into treatment because the threat of a felony conviction is no longer an
available option."


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             August 1, 2017 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

L.A. father could be deported next week;
Man, in U.S. illegally, was arrested after dropping off a daughter at school.

BYLINE: Andrea Castillo

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 639 words


The family of Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez, an immigrant in the country illegally
whose case has drawn international media attention, was devastated to learn that
he could be deported as early as next week.

Avelica-Gonzalez, 49, has been held at a federal detention facility since Feb.
28, when immigration agents arrested him minutes after he dropped off his
12-year-old daughter at her Lincoln Heights school.

Lawyers for Avelica-Gonzalez in June settled the two decades-old misdemeanor
convictions -- for driving under the influence and for receiving stolen car tags
-- that prompted his arrest. He pleaded guilty to lesser vehicle code
violations.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials had cited a deportation order
based on the former convictions as the reason for picking him up in February.
His lawyers had hoped that with the changes, ICE would grant his release and
cancel his deportation order.

Avelica-Gonzalez, a Mexican citizen, has lived in the United States for 25
years. ICE agents pulled him over and detained him six blocks from the school
where he had dropped off one of his daughters. Another daughter in the car with
him, now 14, sobbed as she recorded cellphone video of the encounter.

Video of the family's story went viral and has attracted international
attention.

Avelica-Gonzalez's lawyers have petitioned the Board of Immigration Appeals to
consider reopening his immigration case as a result of the conviction changes.
He is being held at the Adelanto Detention Facility in San Bernardino County.

When ICE agents detained Avelica-Gonzalez, his attorneys filed an emergency stay
of removal with the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, preventing his immediate
deportation. The court reviewed the case and dismissed the stay in June.

The stay will expire Aug. 5, said Avelica-Gonzalez's immigration lawyer, Alan
Diamante. He could be deported as early as Aug. 7.

"If there's no 9th Circuit stay, there could be nothing keeping him here,"
Diamante said. "And that's our concern."

In late March, Avelica-Gonzalez and his wife, Norma, submitted applications for
U visas, which are available to victims of crime and their immediate family
members, based on a crime that Norma was the victim of in December 2016.
Diamante declined to provide details about the crime out of respect for the
family and any potential further investigation.

The number of people with pending U visa applications has skyrocketed from
21,000 in 2009 to nearly 170,000 as of March. Congress has set a cap granting
10,000 U visas each year. Applicants on the waiting list are granted deferrals
of their deportation and allowed to apply for work permits.

Diamante, who took up Avelica-Gonzalez's case pro bono, said he should be
released while he awaits the fate of his application.

"U visa applicants should not be living in fear that they'll be deported while
they're waiting for their cases to be adjudicated," he said.

In late June, Diamante filed a petition for another stay of Avelica-Gonzalez's
deportation with the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees ICE,
knowing that the 9th Circuit stay would be lifted. The request was primarily
based on his pending U visa application and the changes to his criminal history.

Homeland Security denied the request, saying it had been filed prematurely.
Diamante plans to refile Aug. 7, once the 9th Circuit stay has been lifted. If
Homeland Security again denies his request, he'll file a last-ditch emergency
stay of deportation with the Board of Immigration Appeals.

But Diamante worries that if Homeland Security denies his request too late in
the day, ICE could move to deport Avelica-Gonzalez before he has time to file
with and receive a response from the immigration appeals board.

"We're just hoping that the government will do the right thing," he said.

--

andrea.castillo@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FATIMA AVELICA, center, at a news conference in March. She
recorded video of her father's Feb. 28 arrest by ICE officers after he dropped
off her sister at school.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Wally Skalij Los Angeles Times PHOTO:
NORMA AVELICA-GONZALEZ, center, wife of Romulo Avelica-Gonzalez, joins others in
support of her husband outside Los Angeles County Superior Court.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Irfan Khan Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Brutal gang target of sweep across city;
MS-13 members and associates named in federal indictment.;
LOS ANGELES

BYLINE: By Alicia A. Caldwell

SECTION: ; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 421 words


ATF agents board a truck to conduct a raid early Wednesday morning in Los
Angeles. Federal and local agencies used tactical and SWAT teams to serve some
of the warrants, and 21 people were arrested in predawn raids.

LOS ANGELES - Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement officials fanned out
across Los Angeles in pre-dawn sweeps, serving arrest and search warrants as
part of a three-year investigation into the ultra-violent street gang MS-13.

Federal prosecutors unsealed a sweeping indictment Wednesday morning charging
dozens of members and leaders of the brutal street gang with a variety of
crimes, including murder.

Acting U.S. Attorney Sandra Brown said the 127-page anti-racketeering indictment
targets 44 members and associates of the gang, including the one-time leader of
a Los Angeles faction of MS-13. Three people accused of murder could face the
death penalty, she said.

Twenty-one people named in the indictment were arrested in predawn raids across
Los Angeles, and Brown said warrants were served at more than 50 locations. Jail
officials around the region also conducted cell searches, as some of those
indicted were already in custody on unrelated charges. About a dozen of those
arrested were so-called "shot-callers" for the gang. At least three people were
still at large Wednesday.

"It's one of the largest and most entrenched gangs in Los Angeles," Brown said.
"Today's actions will deal a critical blow to the top leadership."

Brown said MS-13 is responsible for murders of rival gang members, drug and
human trafficking, prostitution and illegal alcohol sales, among other crimes.
She described the racketeering case as one of the largest single cases targeting
MS-13, a gang that started in Los Angeles but has expanded to nearly every state
and El Salvador. The gang is blamed for horrific violence that has sent
Salvadoran immigrants fleeing that country for the United States.

Because of the group's propensity for violence, federal and local agencies used
tactical and SWAT teams to serve some of the warrants, including at a storefront
near downtown that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said
was being used as a "casita," or sort of clubhouse, for one group of gang
members.

The raids and the indictment are part of a multi-agency case led by the FBI that
started in 2014. More than half of those arrested and charged in the case are in
the country illegally, FBI field office assistant director Deirdre Fike said. It
was unclear how long they had been in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              244 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 17, 2017 Friday

Man convicted of writing hate speech on LGBT Center

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 432 words

ABSTRACT

A 23-year-old man was sentenced to 36 months of probation and nine days in jail
after pleading guilty to writing hate speech on a Los Angeles LGBT Center in
graffiti. Damario Brown was also given 45 days of graffiti removal and ordered
to stay away from the center, L.A. City Attorney Mike Feuer said in a statement.


FULL TEXT

A 23-year-old South Los Angeles man was sentenced to 36 months of probation and
nine days in jail after pleading guilty to writing hate speech on a Los Angeles
LGBT Center in graffiti.

Damario Brown, who lives in Leimert Park in South L.A., was also given 45 days
of graffiti removal duties and ordered to stay away from the center, L.A. City
Attorney Mike Feuer said.

"In these increasingly precarious times, it's particularly important that my
office stand at the forefront in protecting all our residents against acts of
violence and hate," Feuer said in a statement.

On Feb. 9, the center's director of facilities reported an unidentified
individual had spray-painted the phrase "F--k Trannies" as well as other slurs
on the front-facing wall of the center's village at Ed Gould Plaza, according to
Feuer.

The location of the incident was at 1125 N. McCadden Place, and officers
identified Brown after seeing him on surveillance video at the site.

Brown was arrested on March 9 and Chadd Kim of the city attorney's Special
Trials Unit successfully prosecuted the case.

"This hateful incident was not an isolated event," said Los Angeles LGBT Center
CEO Lorri L. Jean in a statement. "There have been a rash of similar incidents
targeting LGBT centers nationwide. We are living in a very different climate
when LGBT people, Muslim people, Jewish people and others are increasingly under
attack, but we must remain resilient. We're grateful to the Los Angeles Police
Department and to City Attorney Mike Feuer."

Others making comment were Councilmen David Ryu and Mitch O'Farrell.

"We will not tolerate hate or bullying of any form. Los Angeles is and will
continue to be a place of refuge for all," Ryu said in a statement. "I commend
the city attorney's office for their work prosecuting this case and protecting
our residents."

"Messages of hate and violence will not be tolerated in the city of Los Angeles
," added O'Farrell, who is openly gay and shares representation of the Los
Angeles LGBT Center in Hollywood. "I commend our city attorney for taking swift
action regarding this crime, and for working with my office to create an
environment where our diversity is celebrated and one's truth is respected."

A restitution hearing for Brown is set for April 27.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

ACLU calls out use of excessive force;
Anaheim outpaces most big cities in its rate of fatal arrests, report says.

BYLINE: Anh Do, Adam Elmahrek

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words


Anaheim police officers use excessive force at a rate that far outpaces law
enforcement agencies in most similar-sized or larger cities, according to a
report released Monday by the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California.

In 2015, Anaheim ranked ninth among the 60 largest U.S. cities in the rate of
officer-involved deaths during arrests, based on FBI data. Last year, Anaheim's
rate of police-involved deaths per million residents outpaced those of Los
Angeles, Atlanta, Boston, New York and San Francisco.

"Anaheim, which likes to call itself the 'City of Kindness,' must grapple with
the disparate impact of deadly use of force by its police department on
low-income communities of color," said Jennifer Rojas, coauthor of the report
and the organization's Southern California community engagement and policy
advocate. "It's critical that true, independent civilian oversight, not beholden
to the city, be established to examine the actions of the police department."

In researching the report, the ACLU examined police and coroner reports,
newspaper stories and data collected by the California attorney general's office
and the U.S. Department of Justice.

The main focus is on 2003 to 2016, a period during which 33 people died
following on-duty Anaheim officers' use of force. One had been placed in a
chokehold, 29 were shot and three had been zapped by Tasers.

Over that period, nearly 40% of the victims of arrest-related force were
unarmed.

The vast majority of those killed in those years were black or Latino,
surpassing the city's population percentage of those racial groups. Though
blacks represent less than 3% of Anaheim's population, 12% of those who died
from police use of force were black.

The rate of police homicides is not connected to the city's crime rate, the
report points out. In fact, the report states, FBI data in 2014 showed Anaheim
was the second-safest from violent crime of the 50 largest cities in the
country.

City officials said the ACLU review does not reflect Anaheim's success in
community policing.

"Few public safety agencies have initiated as much internal review and brought
about as much positive change as the Anaheim Police Department has in recent
years," said the city's acting police chief, Julian Harvey. "Our major incident
review process is now a model for California. We have brought our officers
closer to the neighborhoods they serve and created new ways for the community to
share their concerns with us."

Harvey said the report had inaccuracies.

"We welcome open and honest assessment of how we are doing. Unfortunately, this
report falls short with misstatements designed for maximum impact rather than
honestly portraying our city," he said.

Among the report's errors, Anaheim spokesman Mike Lyster said, was classifying
one death in 2015 as an officer-involved shooting when officials later
determined that the victim had died from his own weapon.

Harvey said he looks forward "to clarifying the record" next month when the
Anaheim council meets to talk about expanding the work of the city's public
safety board.

Councilman Jose Moreno said he hoped the report's release "will provide more
urgency to getting the board up and running." He credited former Police Chief
Raul Quezada with creating a neighborhood advisory council and making online
complaint forms available to citizens.

City officials hired Quezada and asked him to undertake numerous reforms after
the fatal shootings of two Latino young men in 2012 sparked a riot and days of
unrest in downtown Anaheim. More than 1,000 people confronted police and threw
rocks and bottles, leaving 20 businesses damaged. That year, there were nine
deaths from police shootings.

Quezada pushed for officers to wear body cameras.

The ACLU report highlights officers who have been involved in multiple shooting
incidents. Just over half the Anaheim Police Department's fatal shootings were
by officers involved in at least one other shooting, according to its analysis.

"The number of killings involving repeat shooters raises questions about Anaheim
PD's handling of shootings, how effectively they identify officers that use
deadly force too easily and their inability to keep officers involved in one
fatal shooting from killing again," it states.

Moreno urged city officials to look at the report with an open mind.

"Let's be proactive," he said. "Let's learn the data and see how we can
strengthen oversight in a way that builds trust."

--

anh.do@latimes.com

adam.elmahrek@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE ACLU report highlights officers involved in multiple
shooting incidents. Above, in 2016.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mark Boster Los Angeles Times
PHOTO: IN 2015, Anaheim ranked ninth among the 60 largest U.S. cities in the
rate of officer-involved deaths during arrests, based on FBI data. Above, an
arrest in 2017.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marcus Yam Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Illegal guns tied to cadet saga;
Authorities find 35 modified weapons in home of cop accused of having sex with
one of the arrested teens.

BYLINE: Richard Winton, James Queally

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 634 words


Dozens of firearms found in the home of a Los Angeles police officer accused of
having sex with a teenage cadet are illegal to own in California, three law
enforcement sources said Monday.

Investigators seized more than 100 firearms, including assault rifles and inert
grenades, when they searched Officer Robert Cain's Rancho Cucamonga home last
week, hours after he was arrested in connection with the sex crime, sources with
knowledge of the investigation have said.

On Monday, three sources confirmed that at least 35 of the weapons had been
illegally modified and are not legal to own under California law. There is no
indication that Cain was selling the weapons, according to two of the sources.

The sources spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to discuss the case.

Cain, 31, was arrested on suspicion of having sex with a 15-year-old cadet last
week, according to jail records. He remains free on $75,000 bail and is assigned
to his home, according to the Los Angeles Police Department.

Beck has said detectives are trying to determine whether there are other
victims.

On Monday, two sources told The Times that investigators found text messages on
Cain's phone that allegedly suggested he engaged in sex with another minor
before the current accusations came to light. One of those sources said the
alleged incident probably occurred years ago.

Investigators do not have evidence of any additional victims, but Cain himself
allegedly made the suggestion in a text message sent to the cadet he is accused
of having sex with, the sources said.

Detectives also found sexually explicit messages between Cain and the cadet,
according to one of the sources.

The source also said Cain and the 15-year-old are suspected of having sex in his
personal vehicle.

Officer Tony Im, an LAPD spokesman, said he could not comment on the number of
illegal weapons found or the text messages allegedly sent by Cain.

The accusations against Cain surfaced as part of a larger investigation into the
thefts of police cruisers, stun guns, police radios and other equipment that
were allegedly carried out by cadets assigned to the LAPD's 77th Street and
Pacific divisions.

Seven cadets have been arrested in connection with the thefts.

Police Chief Charlie Beck said last week that the alleged victim in Cain's case
was one of the cadets accused of taking part in the thefts.

Charges have yet to be filed against Cain or the cadets, according to a
spokesman for the Los Angeles County district attorney's office.

Im said he did not know whether the department had presented cases to the
district attorney's office regarding the sex crime allegations or the thefts of
LAPD property.

The cadet program has been suspended at the Pacific and 77th Street divisions,
and Beck has ordered a "top-to-bottom" review of the department's signature
youth initiative. City Councilman Mitchell Englander has called for a separate
investigation into all LAPD youth programs.

Matt Johnson, president of the Los Angeles Police Commission, also said he will
direct the civilian board's inspector general to review the cadet program,
including its oversight, and the mechanisms the LAPD uses to secure and track
its equipment.

The investigation into the cadet scandal is ongoing, but Beck has said he does
not believe any other officers engaged in criminal behavior.

It remains unclear whether Cain has an attorney. No one answered the door at his
home Friday.

A 10-year veteran of the LAPD, Cain was assigned to the equipment room at the
77th Street Division.

Beck has said Cain probably knew of, and may have even helped facilitate, the
thefts of LAPD cruisers and equipment.

--

richard.winton@latimes.com

Twitter: @LACrimes

james.queally@latimes.com

Twitter: @JamesQueallyLAT

Times staff writer Kate Mather contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LOS ANGELES Police Chief Charlie Beck after announcing Thursday
that Officer Robert Cain had been arrested in the alleged statutory rape of a
teenage cadet.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Allen J. Schaben Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                               Vincent Oliver Law

                          205 South Broadway Suite 606
                             Los Angeles,  CA 90012
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (213) 617-2307
URL: www.vincentoliverlaw.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Vincent Oliver Law specializes in all Identity Theft crimes in Southern
California and Los Angeles. We have over 30 years of experience defending those
accused of Identity Theft crimes. If you have been accused of such a crime, you
should seek legal help immediately. We offer free consultations by calling us or
filling out our consultation request form on this page.  Attorney Vincent Oliver
has been featured in the Los Angeles Times, New York Post, LA Weekly, ABC News,
The Burbank Leader, and The Bulletin Weekly.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              248 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          September 20, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

2 prosecutors' sex harassment suit is settled;
L.A. County will pay $700,000 to pair who accused their boss of mistreating
them.

BYLINE: Matt Hamilton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words


Two prosecutors in the Los Angeles County district attorney's office will
receive $700,000 to settle a lawsuit accusing their supervisor of subjecting
them to regular harassment and fostering an abusive, sexually charged workplace.

The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors approved the settlement Tuesday.
Details on how the money would be divided among Deputy Dist. Attys. Beth
Silverman and Tannaz Mokayef and their lawyers were not released. The payout
will be drawn from the district attorney's budget, according to county records.

In a civil lawsuit filed in 2015, Silverman and Mokayef, both members of the
district attorney's elite major crimes division, accused their former
supervisor, Gary Hearnsberger, of grabbing their buttocks, declaring his
fondness for sexually pleasuring women, and making disparaging remarks about
women, crime victims and a transgender attorney.

The pair said they were penalized for rebuffing Hearnsberger's advances. They
alleged that other female prosecutors received high-profile cases for tolerating
the harassment, engaging in sexual banter with Hearnsberger or providing sexual
favors.

The lawsuit described the nation's largest local prosecutorial office as plagued
by hostility and sexual favoritism, and said Hearnsberger was the culprit.

Attorneys for Mokayef said in court papers that at least four other female
employees of the D.A.'s office also complained internally that they were victims
of sexual harassment and other misconduct by Hearnsberger.

On Tuesday, Dist. Atty. Jackie Lacey denied suggestions that her office had
overlooked allegations of sexual misconduct.

"We have no tolerance for sexual harassment in this office," Lacey said in a
statement. "My managers are trained through the county and as part of my
leadership team to respect their colleagues and uphold the values of this
office."

A spokeswoman for the D.A.'s office said the case was settled to resolve
outstanding disputes and avoid the expense and inconvenience of further
litigation.

Silverman, who successfully led the prosecution of the so-called Grim Sleeper
serial killer, Lonnie Franklin Jr., declined to comment on the settlement.

Mokayef, who won a murder conviction against "The Shield" actor Michael Jace,
said in an email written in all-caps that she was "not interested in speaking"
about the matter. Her attorney, Greg Smith, also declined to comment.

Both prosecutors remain in the major crimes unit, according to a spokeswoman for
the district attorney's office.

Hearnsberger and his attorney did not respond to messages seeking comment. After
more than three decades with the office, Hearnsberger retired March 31, about a
week before Silverman's attorneys formally notified an Orange County judge that
the case had been settled to avoid a trial. Hearnsberger had continued to
receive a salary after being placed on paid administrative leave in March 2015.

The lawsuit had been transferred to Orange County after the Los Angeles County
Superior Court bench was disqualified from hearing the case.

Hearnsberger remains an active member of the California State Bar, which listed
him at a post office box in Yucca Valley, north of Palm Springs. In an interview
with The Times shortly after the lawsuit was filed, Hearnsberger denied the
women's claims.

"I'm being charged with a crime I didn't commit, and that's not something
prosecutors want to see," Hearnsberger said. "Any kind of sexual allegations
with me, her, them or other lawyers in major crimes or any other place where
I've been head deputy is completely and totally untrue."

But court records offered detailed allegations of Hearnsberger's alleged lewd
behavior in the office.

As supervisor of the unit that handles the D.A.'s highest-profile and complex
homicide cases, Hearnsberger would make gestures mimicking oral sex and often
laced his comments with graphic sexual remarks, Silverman alleged.

At a 2013 work-related event at the Biltmore Hotel, he put his hands on her
buttocks and told her, "You know you like it," according to the lawsuit.

Mokayef, a former gang prosecutor who joined the major crimes unit in 2014, said
that Hearnsberger once reached under her skirt at a restaurant and grabbed her
crotch. He also compared her cellphone's vibrations to a sexual toy, according
to court documents.

"He screams. He yells. He's nasty," Silverman said in a deposition excerpted in
court records.

Silverman -- whose performance reviews over the last decade praised her for
being one of the best trial lawyers in the unit -- said she alerted at least two
superiors to the mistreatment. One of them prevented her from disclosing all the
details to him, saying he did not want to hear about it, according to court
papers.

A district attorney's spokeswoman said the office did not learn the specifics of
the harassment allegations until Silverman and Mokayef filed their lawsuit.

Silverman said in court papers that since coming forward with her complaint she
had been isolated, defamed, harassed and even cut off in hallways by colleagues.

"The alleged perpetrator has left the department," Mokayef's attorney,
Christopher Brizzolara, said Monday. "If nothing else, the case did accomplish
that."

--

matt.hamilton@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BETH SILVERMAN, who prosecuted the so-called Grim Sleeper
killer, said her boss once grabbed her buttocks and would make gestures
mimicking oral sex.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Al Seib Los Angeles Times PHOTO: TANNAZ
MOKAYEF, another member of the major crimes prosecution unit, said her boss
reached under her skirt and grabbed her crotch at a restaurant.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Christina House For The Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            August 24, 2017 Thursday

Lynwood man charged in La Crescenta woman's death

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 361 words

ABSTRACT

A 20-year-old Lynwood man charged with killing a La Crescenta woman in early
August had his arraignment pushed back to September, authorities said. Devon
White was arrested on Aug. 17 in connection with killing Hy Soon Oh, 67 and is
being held at Men's Central Jail in Los Angeles with no bail. White was set for
an arraignment on Aug. 21 but it was pushed back to Sept. 6 in Pasadena, said
Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago.

FULL TEXT

A 20-year-old Lynwood man has been charged with killing a 67-year-old La
Crescenta woman in early August.

Devon White was arrested Thursdayin connection with the death of Hy Soon Oh on
Aug. 8 and was being held at Men's Central Jail in Los Angeles with no bail.

White was set for an arraignment Monday but the case was pushed back to Sept. 6
in Pasadena, said Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office spokesman
Ricardo Santiago.

Santiago said White faces the death penalty or life in prison without the
possibility of parole.

Glendale police said White followed Oh into her garage on Aug. 8 after she left
her Lynwood business, robbed and fatally shot her.

"The motive was robbery," said Glendale Police Sgt. Robert William, who added he
did not know if the suspect had followed her on the day of her death or days
before.

White left the scene afterward, police said. Detectives were able to identify
him using forensic evidence and determine he is a convicted felon on probation.

William declined to offer details on what forensic evidence police gathered, but
he said police had surveillance footage that "confirmed our suspicions prior to
identifying him. We used some advanced technology to locate his exact spot."

Additionally, White is a documented gang member out of South Los Angeles, police
explained.

White was arrested in Los Angeles, in partnership with detectives from the U.S.
Marshal's regional task force.

The District Attorney's Office later filed multiple counts against White,
including murder, robbery, being a felon in possession of a firearm and a
special gang enhancement.

Anyone with any more information is asked to call the Glendale Police Department
at 818-548-4911.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                           October 18, 2017 Wednesday

Citing Berkeley and Charlottesville , LA moves to ban drones, torches and more
at protests

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou

LENGTH: 279 words



HIGHLIGHT: In reaction to violent protests that broke out recently in
Charlottesville, Berkeley and other places, Los Angeles city leaders are now
looking into banning pepper spray, pipes, bricks and other items from protests
and other so-called "First Amendment" public assemblages.


In reaction to violent protests that broke out recently in Charlottesville,
Berkeley and other places, Los Angeles city leaders are now looking into banning
pepper spray, pipes, bricks and other items from protests and other so-called
First Amendment public assemblages.

The City Council voted Tuesday to request that the City Attorney prepare an
ordinance banning more than a dozen items, including open flame torches, spray
paint cans, projectile launchers, and balloons filed with anything other than
air, oxygen or helium.

Also on the list are drones, tasers and containers of biological toxic waste and
anything that is caustic, corrosive, abrasive or flammable.

The proposed ordinance stems from motion authored by Councilman Mitchell
Englander that calls for ways Los Angeles could react to recent protests
happening nationwide.

When First Amendment events occur in the City of Los Angeles, the Los Angeles
Police Department is responsible for ensuring that a peaceful and safe
demonstration ensues, Englander wrote. It is also their responsibility to
maintain and/or restore order if necessary in order to protect the public at
large.

He cited the violence that often erupted between opposing groups at protests in
Charlottesville, Berkeley and St. Louis.

As we have seen in demonstrations around the country, these events are becoming
violent more frequently, he wrote. We are seeing devices such as poles, sticks,
signs, as well as certain types of containers including glass bottles and many
other items used as improvised weapons thus resulting in injuries and property
damage.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area
and beyond.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           October 18, 2017 Wednesday

Citing Berkeley and Charlottesville , LA moves to ban drones, torches and more
at protests

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou

LENGTH: 279 words



HIGHLIGHT: In reaction to violent protests that broke out recently in
Charlottesville, Berkeley and other places, Los Angeles city leaders are now
looking into banning pepper spray, pipes, bricks and other items from protests
and other so-called "First Amendment" public assemblages.


In reaction to violent protests that broke out recently in Charlottesville,
Berkeley and other places, Los Angeles city leaders are now looking into banning
pepper spray, pipes, bricks and other items from protests and other so-called
First Amendment public assemblages.

The City Council voted Tuesday to request that the City Attorney prepare an
ordinance banning more than a dozen items, including open flame torches, spray
paint cans, projectile launchers, and balloons filed with anything other than
air, oxygen or helium.

Also on the list are drones, tasers and containers of biological toxic waste and
anything that is caustic, corrosive, abrasive or flammable.

The proposed ordinance stems from motion authored by Councilman Mitchell
Englander that calls for ways Los Angeles could react to recent protests
happening nationwide.

When First Amendment events occur in the City of Los Angeles, the Los Angeles
Police Department is responsible for ensuring that a peaceful and safe
demonstration ensues, Englander wrote. It is also their responsibility to
maintain and/or restore order if necessary in order to protect the public at
large.

He cited the violence that often erupted between opposing groups at protests in
Charlottesville, Berkeley and St. Louis.

As we have seen in demonstrations around the country, these events are becoming
violent more frequently, he wrote. We are seeing devices such as poles, sticks,
signs, as well as certain types of containers including glass bottles and many
other items used as improvised weapons thus resulting in injuries and property
damage.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area
and beyond.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              May 26, 2017 Friday

Hate crimes, hate groups on the rise in California

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 510 words

ABSTRACT

joe d. Long Beach version of HATE CRIMES story

FULL TEXT

Fueled by politics and a heated election year, more hate crimes, civil conflicts
and violent confrontations were reported in California's largest cities last
year compared to 2015, according to recent data discussed Thursday.

The 14 percent increase in overall hate crimes across the Golden State included
a threat against a mosque in Fresno in which someone stated "President Trump is
going to cleanse America and do to Muslims what Hitler did to the Jews," and a
spike in vandalism in Orange County, according to a special status report by the
Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San
Bernardino. Changing demographics, lack of civic cohesion and distrust toward
law enforcement that resulted in  protests also contributed to the growth in
those crimes, according to the report.  Presented in West Hollywood, the report
concluded that overall hate crimes in nine of California's largest cities rose
to a total of 354 in 2016, up from 2015's total of 310.

The data were provided by local law enforcement agencies and will likely
increase as more information for 2016 is released, said Brian Levin, a terrorism
expert and professor at California State University, San Bernardino who authored
the report. If the rise in hate crimes for 2016 holds, then it will be the first
year in two decades where California experienced back-to-back consecutive annual
increases, since 2015 also showed a spike from the year before, he noted.

Among the California cities examined, Los Angeles and San Jose showed what Levin
called notable growth of hate crimes during the election time period compared to
previous months or with the same time period in 2015.

Los Angeles had a 29 percent increase in the fourth quarter of 2016, when
compared with the previous year, while San Jose saw its numbers of hate crimes
triple from 3 to 9 during that same period, according to the report.

Numbers provided by police show that Long Beach also recently saw a spike in
hate crimes.

Eight were reported in the first two months of 2017. That was a dramatic uptick
from 2016 when detectives only investigated eight hate crimes during the whole
year, according to the Long Beach Police Department.

There were 12 hate crimes reported in Long Beach during 2015, according to the
department.

Long Beach police said the crimes this year included bomb threats at local
Jewish centers, a car spray-painted with "derogatory comments regarding the
victim's sexuality," and a driver who may have tried to hit two Hispanic women
with her car while yelling racial slurs.

Cal State Long Beach has also seen a recent spate of hate-related incidents.

Three times this year, racist fliers promoting white supremacy or white
nationalism have appeared on campus. In April, someone pasted up posters
featuring swastikas and anti-Semitic slogans.

"It's certainly safe to say that there's been an uptick in the distribution of
illegal, hateful posters on campus," said Terri Carbaugh, a university
spokeswoman.

for the.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                    The News

                            November 20, 2017 Monday

INTERNATIONAL: Cult leader Charles Manson dies aged 83

LENGTH: 201  words


A NOTORIOUS cult leader who told his followers to carry out a series of brutal
murders has died.

Charles Manson, leader of the so-called Manson family' - which was held
responsible for seven ritualistic murders in 1969 - has died of natural causes
at Kern County Hospital in California, aged 83.

He was admitted to the hospital earlier this month, before dying on Sunday.

The convict, who had a Swastika etched between his eyebrows, spent the past four
decades in prison after being handed nine life sentences for his crimes.

The most high-profile victim of his cult was actress Sharon Tate - wife of
director Roman Polanski - who was murdered at her Los Angeles home nearly nine
months into pregnancy, aged 26.

One of Manson's young followers, Susan Atkins, stabbed Tate to death and wrote
PIG' on the director's home's front door, using the actress's blood.

Four other people at the property were brutally stabbed to death.

The next day, a Los Angeles couple, Leno and Rosemary LaBianca, were killed by
the clan - leading to the killings being known collectively as the Tate-LaBianca
murders.

Other celebrities including Frank Sinatra, Elizabeth Taylor and Steve McQueen
were reportedly targets for the group.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPNS


                       Copyright 2017 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             July 20, 2017 Thursday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 84 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Thursday, July 20, Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

Due to technical problems, new reports were not available for this week's log
for San Pedro, Wilmington, Harbor City and Harbor Gateway.

Information about crime in the area patrolled by the Los Angeles Police
Department Harbor Division, including links to maps of crime, is available on
the LAPD website, www.lapdonline.org/.

To find locations of incidents plotted on a map, see the South Bay Crime Map,
http://www.dailybreeze.com/crime-map.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             June 7, 2017 Wednesday

Investigators: Monrovia man kidnapped, sexually assaulted women across San
Gabriel Valley, Lynwood

BYLINE: Stephanie K. Baer; stephanie.baer@langnews.com @skbaer on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 380 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities will released information at a press conference Tuesday on the
arrest of a man suspected of sexual assault of multiple female victims.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Authorities are seeking additional victims of a Monrovia man
suspected of kidnapping and sexually assaulting at least six women across the
San Gabriel Valley over the past five years.

Lt. Todd Deeds, of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Special Victims
Bureau, detailed the arrest of Jason Chung Chien Yu, 41, and described the
circumstances in which he allegedly preyed on his victims, lured them to his
dark colored sedan and sexually assaulted them in nearby motels during a press
briefing at the Hall of Justice in downtown Los Angeles Tuesday.

"He targets women that are drug users, he meets them on the street, he lures
them into his vehicle by offering them money and drugs, he then holds them
captive and takes them to a different location and sexually assaults them,"
Deeds said.

The incidents took place in the cities of El Monte, Lynwood, Monterey Park and
Temple City between 2012 and 2017. Deeds said authorities believe Yu may have
assaulted additional women and are asking other victims to come forward.

"Because again the type of victims that he targets and the number of years that
he has been doing it we believe there are other victims out there," Deeds said.
"We want you to know that Mr. Yu is in custody and we want you to feel safe
notifying law enforcement."

Yu was arrested in Irwindale May 24 and is being held in lieu of $1.37 million.
He faces one count of forcible sodomy, one count of oral copulation, one count
of sexual assault, one count of false imprisonment and one count of kidnapping
to commit sexual assault, according to court records. He is scheduled to be
arraigned June 16.

Deeds said the victims ranged in age from young adults to women in their 60s.
None of the six victims were minors, he said.

Deeds said there was "nothing significant" in Yu's criminal history. Online
court and booking records show Yu was arrested in January and April for driving
on a suspended or revoked license and was previously convicted of driving on a
highway without a valid driver's license.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Special Victims Bureau at
877-710-5273.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday

Photos: SLA shootout on this date deepens Patricia Hearst mystery

BYLINE: Susan Steade

LENGTH: 176 words



HIGHLIGHT: Photos and maps trace the 20 months of drama in 1974 and 1975.


On May 17, 1974, a shootout and fire at a Los Angeles house ended with the
deaths of six members of the Symbionese Liberation Army - the group that had
kidnapped San Francisco newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst three months earlier.

Hearst was not among those in the home during the raid by Los Angeles police,
nor were SLA members Bill and Emily Harris. The three had become involved in
their own shootout after shoplifting at a sporting goods store the previous day,
and had spent the evening waiting for their colleagues at a rendezvous point.

The group had been in Los Angeles barely a week, having fled the Bay Area not
long after robbing a San Francisco bank the previous month.

After the shootout and fire, Hearst and the Harrises left Los Angeles. They
would resurface in April 1975 during a bank robbery in Carmichael in which a
customer was killed.

In September 1975, Hearst and the Harrises were captured in San Francisco.

The photos and maps trace the 20 months of drama. Click here if you're having
trouble seeing the slideshow on your mobile device.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday

Photos: SLA shootout on this date deepens Patricia Hearst mystery

BYLINE: Susan Steade

LENGTH: 176 words



HIGHLIGHT: Photos and maps trace the 20 months of drama in 1974 and 1975.


On May 17, 1974, a shootout and fire at a Los Angeles house ended with the
deaths of six members of the Symbionese Liberation Army - the group that had
kidnapped San Francisco newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst three months earlier.

Hearst was not among those in the home during the raid by Los Angeles police,
nor were SLA members Bill and Emily Harris. The three had become involved in
their own shootout after shoplifting at a sporting goods store the previous day,
and had spent the evening waiting for their colleagues at a rendezvous point.

The group had been in Los Angeles barely a week, having fled the Bay Area not
long after robbing a San Francisco bank the previous month.

After the shootout and fire, Hearst and the Harrises left Los Angeles. They
would resurface in April 1975 during a bank robbery in Carmichael in which a
customer was killed.

In September 1975, Hearst and the Harrises were captured in San Francisco.

The photos and maps trace the 20 months of drama. Click here if you're having
trouble seeing the slideshow on your mobile device.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 5, 2017 Sunday

Father in Amber Alert taken into custody; 2-month-old son is OK

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 270 words

ABSTRACT

A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area, triggering
an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child returned safe
and unharmed.

FULL TEXT


GORMAN >> A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area,
triggering an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child
returned safe and unharmed.

Jeffrey Michael Gomes, 42, and Jefferson Gomes were located at approximately
11:50 a.m., according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

The announcement was made by the department's Major Crimes Bureau and the
sheriff's Santa Clarita Valley station, said Deputy Joana Warren of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

KCBS-TV reported that the boy and his father were found shortly before noon
Saturday in the Bakersfield area, about 90 miles northwest of Los Angeles.

They may have also been spotted Saturday morning at the Los Angeles
International Airport, said Los Angeles Airport Police Officer Rob Pedregon.

At about 5:15 a.m., someone reported that a white pickup truck matching Gomes'
white 2007 white Chevrolet 2500 was spotted leaving the airport's Central
Terminal Area and going eastbound on Century Boulevard, Pedregon said.

Officers reviewed video footage of the area and dispatched some units, but were
unable to locate the truck.

"We (then) notified our jurisdictional partners," he said.

The abduction of Jefferson Gomes on Friday followed some kind of domestic
violence incident, according to Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez of the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 8, 2017 Saturday

Woman accused of fatally stabbing boyfriend Gunman sought in Daiso store robbery
Overturned big rig shuts down freeway Police checkpoint planned next weekend

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 637 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Saturday, July July 8, 2017.

FULL TEXT

Police have arrested a 20-year-old woman following the fatal stabbing of her
boyfriend early Friday at their Pomona home, authorities said.

Officers were called to the 2200 block of West Valley Boulevard just after
midnight for reports of an assault, Pomona police Lt. Ron McDonald said.

The victim, a 21-year-old man, was stabbed in their home, Sgt. Bert Sanchez
wrote in a statement.

"Emergency personnel attempted life saving measures, but were unsuccessful and
the victim was pronounced deceased at the scene," he said.

Shaqcore Dalvin Prawl died at 12:31 a.m., Los Angeles County Department of
Medical Examiner-Coroner Assistant Chief of Operations Ed Winter said.

"During (detectives') investigation, it was learned that a domestic violence
incident occurred between the suspect and her boyfriend," Sanchez said. "During
this incident, the victim was stabbed.

Police arrested Chayenne Capri Lywood, 20, on suspicion of murder, according to
Pomona police officals and Los Angeles County booking records.

Lywood was being held in lieu of $2 million bail pending her intitial court
appearance, scheduled Tuesday in the Pomona branch of Los Angeles County
Superior Court, records show.

For the second time in just over a month, a gunman carried out a robbery at a
Rowland Heights Daiso Japan store late Thursday, officials said.

The heist took place about 7:30 p.m. at the variety store, 19715 Colima Road,
Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. David Buckner said.

A man entered the store brandishing a handgun and demanded money from a woman
working behind the cash register, he said.

The employee complied, and the robber fled with an undetermined amount of money,
according to the lieutenant. No one was hurt.

The robber was last seen heading south on Colima Road in a white pickup truck.
Deputies described him as a Latino man of about 5 feet 10 inches tall, wearing a
black hat, a green shirt and tan pants.

The same store was robbed June 4 in what investigators suspected was an inside
job, sheriff's officials said. Deputies arrested an alleged gunman, a teenage
getaway driver and a store employee accused of being in on the robbery shortly
after the crime.

Anyone with information can reach the sheriff's Walnut-Diamond Bar Station at
626-913-1715. Tips may also be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional Crime
Stoppers at 800-222-8477.

Authorities closed four lanes of the eastbound 10 Freeway and a transition road
when a big rig overturned Friday.

Los Angeles County Fire Inspector Rich Licon said no one was injured in the
crash.

A caller reported a big rig on its side on the eastbound 10, east of the 605
Freeway just after 9 a.m.

The CHP traffic log mentioned that the truck was carrying construction
materials.

CHP Officer Peter Nicholson said it appears to be a solo crash, but didn't have
details yet on what led to the incident.

The CHP issued a SigAlert at 9:33 a.m. for four lanes of the eastbound 10
Freeway as well as the northbound 605 Freeway transition to the eastbound 10.

Police are planning to hold a sobriety and driver license checkpoint next
weekend.

The checkpoint will be held from 7 p.m. on Friday to 2:30 a.m. the following
morning at an undisclosed location within the city, Pasadena police officials
said in a written statement.

During the past three years, seven people have died and another 117 suffered
injuries in DUI-related collision in Pasadena, police said.

Police remind motorisits that in addition to alcohol, officers will be on the
lookout for any drivers impaired by any substance, including prescription
medications or marijuana.

Funding for the checkpoint is being provided by a grant from the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, through the California Office of Traffic
Safety.

- From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                             Criminal Defense Group

                       10100 Santa Monica Blvd. Suite 300
                             Los Angeles,  CA 90067
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (866) 600-2525
URL: www.criminaldefensegroup.net

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   At the Criminal Defense Group we are committed to defending clients in
Hollywood and Los Angeles against both felony and misdemeanor crimes. Our firm
is comprised of skilled legal professionals who have earned a reputation for
going above and beyond to ensure their clients receive the best possible defense
representation. We have extensive experience in the laws, protocols, and court
systems that govern and regulate criminal cases in the Los Angeles area, and
have used that experience to help our clients successfully fight their charges.
We understand that each case is unique, and that the defense required for one
criminal case may be vastly different from the defense required in another type
of case. Our job is to identify what is required of us for the case at hand, and
then make sure the necessary steps are taken to prepare a strong and compelling
defense that maximizes our clients' chances of obtaining a favorable verdict.
Whether you're facing violent crime charges for assault & battery, or you've
been accused of a serious sex crime, such as rape or child molestation, you can
trust a highly skilled Los Angeles criminal defense lawyer at our office to
provide you with the uncompromising defense you need. At the Criminal Defense
Group, we offer aggressive defense representation against the following types of
charges:

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              261 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Sheriff's deputy shoots man inside restaurant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

ABSTRACT

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is investigating a deputy-involved
shooting at or near a bus station in the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman
Way in Van Nuys, according to the Sheriff's Information Bureau and a report from
the scene. ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an
ambulance.

FULL TEXT

VAN NUYS >> A man shot by a sheriff's deputy inside a restaurant in Van Nuys
Monday is expected to survive, authorities said, and a second suspect was
reportedly taken into custody.

The shooting occurred at 3:12 p.m. Monday in a restaurant at Van Nuys Boulevard
and Valerio Street, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Vincent
Plair.

A deputy with the department's Metro Transit Services made contact with a person
at the restaurant that resulted in a pat-down, Plair said. During the pat-down,
the deputy retrieved a gun from the suspect and shortly after the
deputy-involved shooting occurred.

The man was wounded, but the deputy was not shot, Plair said, adding he did not
know the specifics of the altercation.

The wounded suspect was in critical condition, according to Deputy Kimberly
Alexander of the Sheriff's Information Bureau. His name was not immediately
released.

There were some other people with the injured man but they fled the scene,
according to Plair.

The Sheriff's Department was handling the investigation because their deputy was
involved in the shooting. Some of the Sheriff's Department transit division
areas traverse through the Los Angeles Police Department's area, Plair added.

ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an ambulance and
reported that Van Nuys Boulevard was closed near Valerio Street.

City News Service initially reported the shooting at or near a bus station in
the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman Way.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Sheriff's deputy shoots man inside restaurant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

ABSTRACT

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is investigating a deputy-involved
shooting at or near a bus station in the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman
Way in Van Nuys, according to the Sheriff's Information Bureau and a report from
the scene. ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an
ambulance.

FULL TEXT

VAN NUYS >> A man shot by a sheriff's deputy inside a restaurant in Van Nuys
Monday is expected to survive, authorities said, and a second suspect was
reportedly taken into custody.

The shooting occurred at 3:12 p.m. Monday in a restaurant at Van Nuys Boulevard
and Valerio Street, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Vincent
Plair.

A deputy with the department's Metro Transit Services made contact with a person
at the restaurant that resulted in a pat-down, Plair said. During the pat-down,
the deputy retrieved a gun from the suspect and shortly after the
deputy-involved shooting occurred.

The man was wounded, but the deputy was not shot, Plair said, adding he did not
know the specifics of the altercation.

The wounded suspect was in critical condition, according to Deputy Kimberly
Alexander of the Sheriff's Information Bureau. His name was not immediately
released.

There were some other people with the injured man but they fled the scene,
according to Plair.

The Sheriff's Department was handling the investigation because their deputy was
involved in the shooting. Some of the Sheriff's Department transit division
areas traverse through the Los Angeles Police Department's area, Plair added.

ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an ambulance and
reported that Van Nuys Boulevard was closed near Valerio Street.

City News Service initially reported the shooting at or near a bus station in
the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman Way.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Sheriff's deputy shoots man inside restaurant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

ABSTRACT

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is investigating a deputy-involved
shooting at or near a bus station in the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman
Way in Van Nuys, according to the Sheriff's Information Bureau and a report from
the scene. ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an
ambulance.

FULL TEXT

VAN NUYS >> A man shot by a sheriff's deputy inside a restaurant in Van Nuys
Monday is expected to survive, authorities said, and a second suspect was
reportedly taken into custody.

The shooting occurred at 3:12 p.m. Monday in a restaurant at Van Nuys Boulevard
and Valerio Street, said Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Sgt. Vincent
Plair.

A deputy with the department's Metro Transit Services made contact with a person
at the restaurant that resulted in a pat-down, Plair said. During the pat-down,
the deputy retrieved a gun from the suspect and shortly after the
deputy-involved shooting occurred.

The man was wounded, but the deputy was not shot, Plair said, adding he did not
know the specifics of the altercation.

The wounded suspect was in critical condition, according to Deputy Kimberly
Alexander of the Sheriff's Information Bureau. His name was not immediately
released.

There were some other people with the injured man but they fled the scene,
according to Plair.

The Sheriff's Department was handling the investigation because their deputy was
involved in the shooting. Some of the Sheriff's Department transit division
areas traverse through the Los Angeles Police Department's area, Plair added.

ABC7 aired footage of a man on a stretcher being put into an ambulance and
reported that Van Nuys Boulevard was closed near Valerio Street.

City News Service initially reported the shooting at or near a bus station in
the area of Van Nuys Boulevard and Sherman Way.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 5, 2017 Sunday

Father in Amber Alert taken into custody; 2-month-old son OK

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 271 words

ABSTRACT

A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area, triggering
an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child returned safe
and unharmed.

FULL TEXT

GORMAN >> A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area,
triggering an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child
returned safe and unharmed.

Jeffrey Michael Gomes, 42, and Jefferson Gomes were located at approximately
11:50 a.m., according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

The announcement was made by the department's Major Crimes Bureau and the
sheriff's Santa Clarita Valley station, said Deputy Joana Warren of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

KCBS-TV reported that the boy and his father were found shortly before noon
Saturday in the Bakersfield area, about 90 miles northwest of Los Angeles.

They may have also been spotted Saturday morning at the Los Angeles
International Airport, said Los Angeles Airport Police Officer Rob Pedregon.

At about 5:15 a.m., someone reported that a white pickup truck matching Gomes'
white 2007 white Chevrolet 2500 was spotted leaving the airport's Central
Terminal Area and going eastbound on Century Boulevard, Pedregon said.

Officers reviewed video footage of the area and dispatched some units but were
unable to locate the truck.

"We (then) notified our jurisdictional partners," he said.

The alleged abduction of Jefferson Gomes on Friday followed some kind of
domestic violence incident, according to Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez of the
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              July 14, 2017 Friday

Azusa resident drowns in river Two jailed in massive residential drug bust
Teacher denies molestation charges Man denies shooting, killing man after fight
Blaze guts garage, burns two cars

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 725 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, July 14, 2016

FULL TEXT

A man swimming in the San Gabriel River died Wednesday when he went under and
became unconscious.

The coroner's office has not yet identified the man, but Azusa police described
him as a 28-year-old Azusa resident.

At 5:34 p.m., Azusa police received a call about the incident in the riverbed
along the 1900 block of North San Gabriel Canyon Road.

The man's friends told police he was swimming near a spillway when he went under
the water, according to Lt. Xavier Torres. When the man resurfaced, he was
unconscious.

"His friends jumped in and pulled him out," Torres said.

When police arrived, he said the friends were trying to resuscitate the man.
Paramedics took over and continued doing CPR.

A sheriff's helicopter flew the man to Huntington Hospital in Pasadena.
Coroner's spokesman Ed Winter said the man died at 6:33 p.m.

Detectives arrested two men and dismantled a large-scale drug distribution ring
operating out of a home in an affluent West Covina neighborhood Wednesday
afternoon, authorities said.

An ongoing narcotics investigation led investigators with a search warrant to
show up at about 5 p.m. at the home in the2700 block of South Citrus Streetin
the South Hills neighborhood, West Covina police Lt. Dennis Patton said.

There, officers discovered 120 pounds of methamphetamine, 17.6 pounds of cocaine
and 110 pounds of marijuana, he said.

Two men were arrested at the home without a struggle, police said.

Ceasar Eduardo Santiesteban, 24, of Los Angeles and Erik Alejandro Martinez, 41,
of Fresno, were booked on suspicion of possession of drugs for sales, according
to police and Los Angeles County booking records.

They were being held with bail set at $2 million each pending their initial
court appearances.

A South El Monte elementary school teacher accused of inappropriately touching
five female students denied five criminal charges in court Thursday, officials
said.

Joseph Alfred Baldenebro, 54, of Montebello has served as a teacher at Miramonte
Elementary School in South El Monte for the past 21 years, according to Lt. Todd
Deeds of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Special Victims Bureau.

Prosecutorscharged him in Junewith one felony count of committing a lewd act
upon a child and four misdemeanor counts of child molestation foralleged crimes
against the students, which took place on school grounds from August of 2015 to
May of 2017, according to Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office
spokeswoman Sarah Ardalani. He served as a fourth- and fifth-grade teacher at
the time of the alleged crimes.

Following his arrest June 21, Baldenebro posted $102,000 bail July 1 and was
released from custody, pending the trial process, L.A. County booking records
show.

He pleaded not guilty Thursday during an arraignment hearing in the Pomona
branch of Los Angeles County Superior Court, authorities said.

Mountain View School District officials said Baldenebro was placed on
administrative leave once the allegations came to light.

A San Bernardino County man pleaded not guilty Wednesdayto a murder charge
stemming from a gang-related shooting after a fight at a party in Pomona.

Timothy James Molano McKinney, 19, of Rancho Cucamonga is charged with theJune
16 shootingof Joseph Aguilar, 33, according to the Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office.

The murder charge includes allegations that McKinney personally and
intentionally discharged a firearm and that the shooting was committed for the
benefit of, at the direction of and in association with a criminal street gang.

McKinney allegedly shot Aguilar after a fight that began at the party and
continued outside. Aguilar died at a hospital.

McKinney was arrested June 18 by Pomona police, and has remained in jail since
then.

If convicted as charged, he could face up to life in state prison, according to
Deputy District Attorney Martin Bean.

Fire destroyed a garage and two vehicles early Thursday morning.

Los Angeles County Fire Inspector Joey Marron said there were no injuries. He
didn't have an estimated cost of damages yet.

A 911 caller reported a fire in the 2300 block of Calle Adriana at 1:38 a.m.

Los Angeles County Fire Department Dispatch Supervisor Michael Pittman said
about 25 firefighters doused the fire in 45 minutes.

The cause of the fire is under investigation.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            November 5, 2017 Sunday

Father in Amber Alert taken into custody; 2-month-old son OK

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 271 words

ABSTRACT

A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area, triggering
an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child returned safe
and unharmed.

FULL TEXT

GORMAN >> A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area,
triggering an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child
returned safe and unharmed.

Jeffrey Michael Gomes, 42, and Jefferson Gomes were located at approximately
11:50 a.m., according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

The announcement was made by the department's Major Crimes Bureau and the
sheriff's Santa Clarita Valley station, said Deputy Joana Warren of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

KCBS-TV reported that the boy and his father were found shortly before noon
Saturday in the Bakersfield area, about 90 miles northwest of Los Angeles.

They may have also been spotted Saturday morning at the Los Angeles
International Airport, said Los Angeles Airport Police Officer Rob Pedregon.

At about 5:15 a.m., someone reported that a white pickup truck matching Gomes'
white 2007 white Chevrolet 2500 was spotted leaving the airport's Central
Terminal Area and going eastbound on Century Boulevard, Pedregon said.

Officers reviewed video footage of the area and dispatched some units but were
unable to locate the truck.

"We (then) notified our jurisdictional partners," he said.

The alleged abduction of Jefferson Gomes on Friday followed some kind of
domestic violence incident, according to Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez of the
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 15, 2017 Saturday

Man convicted of killing friend in South Pasadena

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales and Brian Day; Staff writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 485 words

ABSTRACT

A jury on Friday convicted Juan Carlos Perez of fatally shooting his friend Noe
Martinez in 2009. South Pasadena police found Martinez dead in Perez's car which
was parked in South Pasadena. Perez was on the run until 2010. Police in
Illinois arrested him on an unrelated crime then ran his prints and found out he
was wanted for the California murder.

FULL TEXT

An Alhambra jury on Friday convicted a Los Angeles man of fatally shooting his
friend in the head nearly eight years ago in South Pasadena.

Juan Carlos Perez, 41, remained a fugitive for months until police in Illinois
arrested him on an unrelated crime, according to Sarah Ardalani, spokeswoman for
the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office.

Officers ran his fingerprints and found out Perez was wanted for the Nov. 22,
2009 murder of 35-year-old Noe Martinez-Quinone. Sheriff's homicide detectives
said Martinez-Quinone was a Guatemalan national who had been living in the
United States for more than a year. The prosecution said he lived in Los Angeles
at the time.

The crime, however, took place in South Pasadena.

Ardalani said jurors deliberated a little more than two hours before finding
Perez guilty of first-degree murder. She said the jury also found true a special
allegation that Perez personally and intentionally fired a gun which caused
great bodily injury and death.

Perez faces up to 50 years to life in prison at his Aug. 11 sentencing at
Alhambra Superior Court, according to Ardalani.

It's not clear why Perez shot his friend twice in the head. Ardalani said a
motive was not argued in court.

In a 2009 interview with the Pasadena Star-News, Detective Karen Shonka said the
two men went to a baby shower then met up with friends for drinks at a
restaurant in Los Angeles.

The men left the restaurant shortly after 2 a.m. Nov. 22, 2009, according to
Shonka.

A South Pasadena police officer noticed a white Toyota Corolla with fogged up
windows parked on the side of the road in the 1000 block of Arroyo Drive around
4:20 a.m.

Shonka said a man in the driver's side rolled down the window and spoke briefly
with the officer in a thick Spanish accent that was difficult to follow, saying
something about a girlfriend.

The man suddenly got out of the car and ran.

The officer looked into the car and discovered the body of Martinez-Quinone in
the passenger seat.

Authorities also found a gun holster under the driver's seat and two 9mm spent
casings in the backseat of the car which was registered to Perez, according to a
news release from the D.A.'s Office.

An arrest warrant was issued for Perez on Dec. 10, 2009.

Ardalani said law enforcement in Westmont, Illinois arrested Perez in late 2010
on an unrelated crime. They discovered the California warrant when they checked
his fingerprints.

Perez was extradited back to California.

He remains in custody at the Twin Towers Correctional Facility in Los Angeles on
$2 million bail.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday

'He had no right to be here';
Fiance of woman killed in car crash blasts sanctuary policy for undocumented
driver

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox; gwilcox@scng.com, @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

ABSTRACT

Hearing set for undocumentes immigrant accused of killing woman in crash

FULL TEXT

SAN FERNANDO >> The fiance of a woman allegedly killed by an undocumented
immigrant in a car crash last month railed against the system Tuesday after the
suspect, who federal officials have said was deported five times from the United
States, appeared in court for a preliminary hearing.

Estuardo Alvarado, 45, is accused of killing 42-year-old Sandra Duran of Arleta
after slamming into her car as he fled the scene of another collision. He is
charged with being intoxicated at the time.

Rodrigo Macias, Duran's fiance, was among about 30 of her family members and
friends who attended the brief hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court in San
Fernando.

"I was looking at the illegal alien who killed my fiancee. I'm very angry that
this could happen in a sanctuary city," Macias said referring to Los Angeles,
which is among about 400 jurisdictions across the country that have policies
that protect undocumented immigrants. "If this were not a sanctuary city, this
would not have happened."

Duran's family members comforted each other as Macias spoke.

"My kids don't have anyone to visit anymore," he said of his late fiancee's two
sons. "He had no right to be here at all."

Los Angeles has never officially declared itself a sanctuary city.

But as President Donald Trump's administration cracks down on undocumented
immigrants, L.A. leaders, including Mayor Eric Garcetti and LAPD Chief Charlie
Beck, have said the city has no plans to get involved in any deportation efforts
by the federal government. They also say the city will continue a long-standing
policy that prevents officers from asking about a person's immigration status.

The mayor offered his condolences Tuesday to Duran's family.

"My thoughts and prayers are with the family that lost a loved one in this
tragic accident, and I understand the anger and grief they are feeling,"
Garcetti said. "Protecting people in our city is my number-one priority - and
that's why I have asked the federal government to focus enforcement efforts on
people who have committed serious crimes and pose a clear threat to Angelenos'
safety."

Duran's father, Santos Duran, said the family made it a point to attend
Tuesday's hearing.

"It was very important to see the person who took my daughter's life. It was not
easy for our family to go through this. She was here for 42 years and then taken
away from us. I just wanted to get this off my shoulders," he said. "It means a
lot to me as a father."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have said it wants to take
Alvarado into custody "when he is released by local authorities in order to
pursue follow-up enforcement action."

Santos Duran said he is not focused Alvarado's immigration status.

"It doesn't matter. It could have been anyone," he said.

Sandra Duran was killed on the afternoon of Feb. 19 in North Hills, according to
the Los Angeles Police Department.

Alvarado was driving south on Sepulveda Boulevard and hit a parked car while
trying to pass traffic, according to the LAPD. Police said he stopped briefly
then fled the scene at a high rate of speed and broadsided Duran's car near
Sepulveda and Plummer Street.

She died at the scene.

The Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office has charged Alvarado with five
counts, including murder and gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated.

Alvarado - a Mexican national - pleaded not guilty to each of the five felony
charges during a previous court appearance.

Tuesday's hearing was brief.

Alvarado, short man with a gray beard and thinning hair, was led into the
courtroom's holding pen and stood behind a steel mesh screen for the proceeding.

Neither Deputy District Attorney Kaveh Faturechi nor public defender Bart Seemen
made extensive comments.

Court Commissioner Jeffrey M. Harkavy said that he had received requests to
allow cameras for the proceeding, noting that Seemen objected because he wanted
his client to get a fair trial.

But Harkavy said there is little chance of prejudice from allowing cameras and
the objection "does not outweigh the public's right to know."

The cameras were set up opposite of the pen holding Alvarado, and Seemen stood
as close to his client as possible trying to shield him from view.

"The main issue is tainting the future jury pool," Seemen said photos.

Harkavy asked if Alvarado knew that he had the right to a quicker hearing.

"Yes," Alvarado responded.

The commissioner asked if Alvarado was waiving that right to a quicker
proceeding.

"Yes, I do," said Alvarado.

Then Harkavy set bail at $2.18 million and ordered him back to court on April
18.

Macias said his mission now is to be in court for every one of Alvarado's
appearances.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday

'He had no right to be here';
Fiance of woman killed blasts sanctuary cities

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox; gwilcox@scng.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words

ABSTRACT

Hearing set for undocumentes immigrant accused of killing woman in crash

FULL TEXT



SAN FERNANDO >> The fiance of a woman allegedly killed by an undocumented
immigrant in a car crash last month railed against the system Tuesday after the
suspect, who federal officials have said was deported five times from the United
States, appeared in court for a preliminary hearing.

Estuardo Alvarado, 45, is accused of killing 42-year-old Sandra Duran of Arleta
after slamming into her car as he fled the scene of another collision. He is
charged with being intoxicated at the time.

Rodrigo Macias, Duran's fiance, was among about 30 of her family members and
friends who attended the brief hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court in San
Fernando.

"I was looking at the illegal alien who killed my fiancee. I'm very angry that
this could happen in a sanctuary city," Macias said referring to Los Angeles,
which is among about 400 jurisdictions across the country that have policies
that protect undocumented immigrants. "If this were not a sanctuary city, this
would not have happened."

Duran's family members comforted each other as Macias spoke.

"My kids don't have anyone to visit anymore," he said of his late fiancee's two
sons. "He had no right to be here at all."

Los Angeles has never officially declared itself a sanctuary city.

But as President Donald Trump's administration cracks down on undocumented
immigrants, L.A. leaders, including Mayor Eric Garcetti and LAPD Chief Charlie
Beck, have said the city has no plans to get involved in any deportation efforts
by the federal government. They also say the city will continue a long-standing
policy that prevents officers from asking about a person's immigration status.

The mayor offered his condolences Tuesday to Duran's family.

"My thoughts and prayers are with the family that lost a loved one in this
tragic accident, and I understand the anger and grief they are feeling,"
Garcetti said. "Protecting people in our city is my number-one priority - and
that's why I have asked the federal government to focus enforcement efforts on
people who have committed serious crimes and pose a clear threat to Angelenos'
safety."

Duran's father, Santos Duran, said the family made it a point to attend
Tuesday's hearing.

"It was very important to see the person who took my daughter's life. It was not
easy for our family to go through this. She was here for 42 years and then taken
away from us. I just wanted to get this off my shoulders," he said. "It means a
lot to me as a father."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have said it wants to take
Alvarado into custody "when he is released by local authorities in order to
pursue follow-up enforcement action."

Santos Duran said he is not focused Alvarado's immigration status.

"It doesn't matter. It could have been anyone," he said.

Sandra Duran was killed on the afternoon of Feb. 19 in North Hills, according to
the Los Angeles Police Department.

Alvarado was driving south on Sepulveda Boulevard and hit a parked car while
trying to pass traffic, according to the LAPD. Police said he stopped briefly
then fled the scene at a high rate of speed and broadsided Duran's car near
Sepulveda and Plummer Street.

She died at the scene.

The Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office has charged Alvarado with five
counts, including murder and gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated.

Alvarado - a Mexican national - pleaded not guilty to each of the five felony
charges during a previous court appearance.

Tuesday's hearing was brief.

Alvarado, short man with a gray beard and thinning hair, was led into the
courtroom's holding pen and stood behind a steel mesh screen for the proceeding.

Neither Deputy District Attorney Kaveh Faturechi nor public defender Bart Seemen
made extensive comments.

Court Commissioner Jeffrey M. Harkavy said that he had received requests to
allow cameras for the proceeding, noting that Seemen objected because he wanted
his client to get a fair trial.

But Harkavy said there is little chance of prejudice from allowing cameras and
the objection "does not outweigh the public's right to know."

The cameras were set up opposite of the pen holding Alvarado, and Seemen stood
as close to his client as possible trying to shield him from view.

"The main issue is tainting the future jury pool," Seemen said photos.

Harkavy asked if Alvarado knew that he had the right to a quicker hearing.

"Yes," Alvarado responded.

The commissioner asked if Alvarado was waiving that right to a quicker
proceeding.

"Yes, I do," said Alvarado.

Then Harkavy set bail at $2.18 million and ordered him back to court on April
18.

Macias said his mission now is to be in court for every one of Alvarado's
appearances.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           August 30, 2017 Wednesday

Police unions oppose hate groups use of thin blue line symbols

BYLINE: Wes Woods, Southern California News Group

LENGTH: 413 words



HIGHLIGHT: Police unions are callng out attempts to hijack the phrase and symbol
"thin blue line" for hate and intolerance.


Police unions are callng out attempts to hijack the phrase and symbol thin blue
line for hate and intolerance.

The Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs (ALADS) in a statement on Monday
joined with the United Coalition of Public Safety (UCOPS) to denounce
extremists.

Ive seen photos, and Im seeing it on television through the news, said Robert
Sass, vice president for ALADS and a deputy for the Los Angeles County Sheriffs
Department. Some of the hate groups are draping themselves in the flag. Some are
carrying flags. Those flags refer to the thin blue line that police officers use
to symbolize police work. Its something thats been around for quite awhile and
is used by police officers.

A thin blue line symbol was created to allow the community to show support for
law enforcement, and those attempting to hijack the symbol for their own
purposes (hate groups such as the neo-Nazis, White Supremacists or the KKK) are
despicable and most certainly do not represent the values for which that symbol
stands, the joint statement said.

The Los Angeles Police Protective League  which participates in UCOPS along with
the Long Beach Police Officers Association and others  on Tuesday also denounced
hate-filled individuals and groups, especially those that commit violence or
advocate violence to achieve their own repugnant political agendas, said LAPPL
president Craig Lally in a statement. Whether theyre neo-Nazis, white
supremacists, the KKK, anti-Semites or Antifa, we repudiate their beliefs and
their tactics.

Lallys statement added that his organization strongly urges any group or people
planning to assemble with the goal of re-creating the violence that occurred in
Charlottesville to cancel their event and stay home.

We urge them to look into their souls and try to figure out where their hate is
coming from and seek professional help, Lallys statement added. No one is born
hating other people.

Sass said the sheriffs department wears tan and green on their uniforms, but
they still associate with the thin blue line symbol.

Frankly, its kind of horrifying to see the photos of hate groups of neo-Nazis
and white supremacists and the KKK draping themselves in these flags. They dont
represent what we stand for as police officers, and its just appalling theyre
carrying these flags and using them in that manner. I would hope they think this
isnt their symbol. It just shows support for law enforcement.  I would love to
see these hate groups stop using the flags.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 5, 2017 Sunday

Father taken into custody; infant OK

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 272 words

ABSTRACT

A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area, triggering
an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child returned safe
and unharmed.

FULL TEXT

GORMAN >> A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area,
triggering an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child
returned safe and unharmed.

Jeffrey Michael Gomes, 42, and Jefferson Gomes were located at approximately
11:50 a.m., according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

The announcement was made by the department's Major Crimes Bureau and the
sheriff's Santa Clarita Valley station, said Deputy Joana Warren of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

KCBS Channel 2 reported that the boy and his father were found shortly before
noon Saturday in the Bakersfield area, about 90 miles northwest of Los Angeles.

They may have also been spotted Saturday morning at Los Angeles International
Airport, said Los Angeles Airport Police Officer Rob Pedregon.

At about 5:15 a.m., someone reported that a white pickup truck matching Gomes'
white 2007

white Chevrolet 2500 was spotted leaving the airport's Central Terminal Area and
going eastbound on Century Boulevard, Pedregon said.

Officers reviewed video footage of the area and dispatched some units but were
unable to locate the truck.

"We (then) notified our jurisdictional partners," he said.

The alleged abduction of Jefferson Gomes on Friday followed some kind of
domestic violence incident, according to Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez of the
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 22, 2017 Sunday

Website aims to combat hate crimes;
Justice group plans to document, track and offer advice to Asian-American
victims

BYLINE: Deepa Bharath; dbharath@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

ABSTRACT

OCR-L-HATECRIMESITE-0122 | Asian Americans Advancing Justice, a Los Angeles
-based advocacy organization for Asian Americans, has launched a website to
encourage members of the Asian American community all over Southern California
and around the nation to report hate crimes or hate incidents they experience or
encounter. The goal of this website, they say, is to bring attention to the fact
that Asian Americans are being victimized as a result of the anti-Chinese
rhetoric during the election season and afterward, and that it is getting lost
in the concerns about anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant sentiments and incidents. I
will be speaking with an activist in the San Fernando Valley who lost a family
member back in the '90s to a hate crime and a lawyer in Irvine who a month
before the election was almost run over by a driver as he yelled: "Go back to
China." Deepa Bharath/Smith 20-25" Photos: TBD Deadline: Friday 3 p.m.

FULL TEXT

"Go back to (expletive) China!"

Gloria Lee can still see the anger and hatred on the face of the man who uttered
those words. On a warm afternoon in September, the lawyer was crossing the
street toward her firm's offices wearing a crisp dress suit when a car screeched
to a halt beside her, almost hitting her.

"The driver rolled down the window and yelled at me to go back to China," said
Lee, a first-generation Korean-American, born in Chicago and raised in Southern
California.

Lee is the client relations partner at Rutan & Tucker, an alum of Stanford
University and UC Berkeley Law School and was named a "rising star" by the
Southern California Super Lawyers publication for four consecutive years, 2012
to 2016.

"I was shocked," she said. "I realized that despite (my) accomplishments or
contributions to the community, some people still just see me as a foreigner who
doesn't belong."

Lee is not alone, says Karin Wang, spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Asian
Americans Advancing Justice, which has launched a website,
Standagainsthatred.org, to help document, track and share experiences such as
Lee's.

"Our goal is not just to have a place where we can share stories, but also ...
give people advice about complaints and legal actions they may be able to file,"
Wang said.

The increase in hate crimes and hate incidents in 2015 statewide and in Southern
California makes such a website increasingly necessary and relevant, she said.

According to the Los Angeles Human Relations Commission's 2015 Hate Crimes
Report, hate crimes in Los Angeles County jumped 24 percent in 2015.
Specifically, the report showed that hate crimes targeting Asian-Americans, the
majority of which were people of Chinese descent, jumped from six to 18 during
this time.

Wang said while hate crimes and hate incidents committed against Muslims get a
lot of media attention, incidents involving Asian-Americans do not. She said
Donald Trump's anti-China rhetoric making China the "economic enemy"

during his campaign may have played a part in rousing these sentiments.

"It's reminiscent of the 1980s when Japan was portrayed as the economic enemy,
particularly as a threat to the U.S. auto industry," she said.

Wang gave the example of the death of Vincent Chin in 1982. Chin was
misidentified as a Japanese man by two auto industry workers, who bludgeoned him
with a baseball bat in the Detroit suburb of Highland Park.

Standagainsthatred.org will track numbers, but it is the individual stories that
will energize it, Wang said. The site is open to people of all ethnicities, she
said.

"The reality is people, at some point, become numb to numbers," Wang said. "But
they respond to the news and they respond to stories."

When her organization posted a news story last month about True Light Christian
Church in Buena Park being graffitied with swastikas and racial slurs, Wang
said, it was widely shared in the Asian-American Pacific Islander community.

"People were able to relate to it because they went to church there or they
lived near the church," she said.

AAAJ will help those who come through the website assess their legal options,
said Nicole Gon Ochi, the organization's supervising attorney.

"We could help connect people with mental health or law enforcement resources,"
she said. "We could help file a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment
and Housing. And in some cases, we could help them pursue civil litigation."

The website could be a valuable resource to the Asian-American community, said
Chino Hills resident Ishmael Ileto, a Filipino-American whose brother Joseph, a
mailman, was killed in the Aug. 10, 1999, shooting at the North Valley Jewish
Community Center in Granada Hills. White supremacist Buford O. Furrow Jr. walked
into the center's lobby and opened fire, killing Ileto and injuring five others.

"People in the Asian-American community are very hesitant to talk openly about
hate crimes," he said. "My mom, for example, didn't want to bring attention to
our family because she was scared we'd be targeted again. Being the minority,
you sometimes get the feeling that everybody is against you."

But it is crucial for victims or their families to be able to share their
stories and bring awareness to the community at large, Ileto said.

Wang said she is seeing more solidarity among minority communities, a silver
lining in the wake of increasing hate crimes and incidents.

"I hear a lot of people saying we should stand up for each other rather than
being bystanders," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 22, 2017 Sunday

Website aims to combat hate crimes;
Justice group plans to document, track and offer advice to Asian-American
victims

BYLINE: Deepa Bharath; dbharath@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

ABSTRACT

OCR-L-HATECRIMESITE-0122 | Asian Americans Advancing Justice, a Los Angeles
-based advocacy organization for Asian Americans, has launched a website to
encourage members of the Asian American community all over Southern California
and around the nation to report hate crimes or hate incidents they experience or
encounter. The goal of this website, they say, is to bring attention to the fact
that Asian Americans are being victimized as a result of the anti-Chinese
rhetoric during the election season and afterward, and that it is getting lost
in the concerns about anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant sentiments and incidents. I
will be speaking with an activist in the San Fernando Valley who lost a family
member back in the '90s to a hate crime and a lawyer in Irvine who a month
before the election was almost run over by a driver as he yelled: "Go back to
China." Deepa Bharath/Smith 20-25" Photos: TBD Deadline: Friday 3 p.m.

FULL TEXT

"Go back to (expletive) China!"

Gloria Lee can still see the anger and hatred on the face of the man who uttered
those words. On a warm afternoon in September, the lawyer was crossing the
street toward her firm's offices wearing a crisp dress suit when a car screeched
to a halt beside her, almost hitting her.

"The driver rolled down the window and yelled at me to go back to China," said
Lee, a first-generation Korean-American, born in Chicago and raised in Southern
California.

Lee is the client relations partner at Rutan & Tucker, an alum of Stanford
University and UC Berkeley Law School and was named a "rising star" by the
Southern California Super Lawyers publication for four consecutive years, 2012
to 2016.

"I was shocked," she said. "I realized that despite (my) accomplishments or
contributions to the community, some people still just see me as a foreigner who
doesn't belong."

Lee is not alone, says Karin Wang, spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Asian
Americans Advancing Justice, which has launched a website,
Standagainsthatred.org, to help document, track and share experiences such as
Lee's.

"Our goal is not just to have a place where we can share stories, but also ...
give people advice about complaints and legal actions they may be able to file,"
Wang said.

The increase in hate crimes and hate incidents in 2015 statewide and in Southern
California makes such a website increasingly necessary and relevant, she said.

According to the Los Angeles Human Relations Commission's 2015 Hate Crimes
Report, hate crimes in Los Angeles County jumped 24 percent in 2015.
Specifically, the report showed that hate crimes targeting Asian-Americans, the
majority of which were people of Chinese descent, jumped from six to 18 during
this time.

Wang said while hate crimes and hate incidents committed against Muslims get a
lot of media attention, incidents involving Asian-Americans do not. She said
Donald Trump's anti-China rhetoric making China the "economic enemy"

during his campaign may have played a part in rousing these sentiments.

"It's reminiscent of the 1980s when Japan was portrayed as the economic enemy,
particularly as a threat to the U.S. auto industry," she said.

Wang gave the example of the death of Vincent Chin in 1982. Chin was
misidentified as a Japanese man by two auto industry workers, who bludgeoned him
with a baseball bat in the Detroit suburb of Highland Park.

Standagainsthatred.org will track numbers, but it is the individual stories that
will energize it, Wang said. The site is open to people of all ethnicities, she
said.

"The reality is people, at some point, become numb to numbers," Wang said. "But
they respond to the news and they respond to stories."

When her organization posted a news story last month about True Light Christian
Church in Buena Park being graffitied with swastikas and racial slurs, Wang
said, it was widely shared in the Asian-American Pacific Islander community.

"People were able to relate to it because they went to church there or they
lived near the church," she said.

AAAJ will help those who come through the website assess their legal options,
said Nicole Gon Ochi, the organization's supervising attorney.

"We could help connect people with mental health or law enforcement resources,"
she said. "We could help file a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment
and Housing. And in some cases, we could help them pursue civil litigation."

The website could be a valuable resource to the Asian-American community, said
Chino Hills resident Ishmael Ileto, a Filipino-American whose brother Joseph, a
mailman, was killed in the Aug. 10, 1999, shooting at the North Valley Jewish
Community Center in Granada Hills. White supremacist Buford O. Furrow Jr. walked
into the center's lobby and opened fire, killing Ileto and injuring five others.

"People in the Asian-American community are very hesitant to talk openly about
hate crimes," he said. "My mom, for example, didn't want to bring attention to
our family because she was scared we'd be targeted again. Being the minority,
you sometimes get the feeling that everybody is against you."

But it is crucial for victims or their families to be able to share their
stories and bring awareness to the community at large, Ileto said.

Wang said she is seeing more solidarity among minority communities, a silver
lining in the wake of increasing hate crimes and incidents.

"I hear a lot of people saying we should stand up for each other rather than
being bystanders," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                          September 23, 2017 Saturday

California gang members found guilty of killing 5 on 2008

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 219 words

ABSTRACT

Two gang members have been found guilty of killing five people at a homeless
encampment near Los Angeles

FULL TEXT

LONG BEACH >> Two gang members were found guilty Friday of killing five people
at a homeless encampment near Los Angeles in a feud involving drug debts.

A jury found David Ponce and Max Rafael guilty of five counts of murder and one
count of kidnapping, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office said.

Prosecutors say Ponce and Rafael fatally shot three men and two women living at
the encampment near a freeway off-ramp in Long Beach.

The November 2008 mass killing baffled investigators after the five bodies were
found on a Sunday morning in the seedy neighborhood. A phone tip led authorities
to the bodies.

Police said the motive was an ongoing feud over drug debts between Ponce and one
of the victims, Lorenzo Villicana. Police believe the others were killed to
ensure there were no witnesses.

Ponce, 36, also was convicted of the murder and kidnapping of a man named Tony
Bledsoe in March 2009, allegedly because he had failed to hand over some drug
money.

Ponce, who belonged to the Nuthood Watts criminal street gang, has the words
"Nut" and "Hood" tattooed below his eyes.

Ponce could face the death penalty while Rafael, 31, could get life in prison
when he's sentenced on Nov. 15.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Officer's death could be a turning point for law on prison reform

BYLINE: Jason Henry; jhenry@scng.com @JasonMHenry on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 819 words


A man with gang ties suspected of killing a Whittier police officer
Mondaybenefitedfrom lesser punishments for repeat offenders enacted under a
controversial 2011 prison-reform law, records show. But statistics on the
fallout from the law do not support a wider claim that the reforms resulted in
an overall increase in violent crime statewide.

On Tuesday, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors blamed AB 109, as well
as the voter-approved Propositions 47 and 57, for creating "additional and
considerable" threats to law enforcement. They called for an investigation of
the

county's actions in response to the death of Whittier Officer Keith Boyer, a
28-year veteran allegedly shot and killed by suspect Michael Mejia, 26, of Los
Angeles.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper was among those criticizing the prison reforms
laws Monday as he grieved for his long-time friend and co-worker.

"We need to wake up. Enough is enough. You're passing these propositions, you're
creating these laws. ... It's not good for our community (and) it's not good for
our officers," Piper said at a press conference.

AB 109 was the California bill that realigned the state's overcrowded prison
system, shifting responsibility over repeat, nonviolent offenders from state
prisons to county jails. Researchers of the law say that while Mejia may have
been a beneficiary, his actions do not line up with state crime trends.

Violent crime did not increase as a result of AB 109, despite law enforcement
and politicians often saying otherwise, they said. Both proponents and opponents
agree even less research exists for Prop. 47, a voter initiative passed in 2014
that reduced certain property and drug charges to misdemeanors.

"As upsetting as this instance was and as problematic as it was, if we were to
throw out AB 109 as a result of this incident, we would not be doing empirically
based policy," said Charis Kubrin, a professor of criminology at UC Irvine and
one of the few to study the topic in depth. "There is no doubt in my mind that
AB 109 had zero impact one way or another on violent crime across the state."

Kubrin and UC Irvine's Carroll Seron oversaw the firstscientific analysisof AB
109 last year in an issue of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science focused entirely on the topic. Few other impartial reviews of the
law exist in part because the state did not set aside money for studying AB 109.
And any statistics are managed at the county level.

UC Irvine's findings showed that while AB 109 contributed to a small rise in
property crimes - mostly auto thefts - there was no evidence of increases in
assaults, rapes, murders or other violent crimes as a result of the reforms.

California's crime trends matched up with other similar states that did not
implement the changes.

"There's so many other things that cause crime rates to go up and down,
everything from drugs, to guns, to gangs, to police-community relations, to
equality and unemployment," Kubrin said.

The Public Policy Institute of California similarly found no effect on violent
crime as a result of realignment ina studyreleased in September 2016. The
institute, however, did find that despite re-arrest and re-conviction rates
largely staying the same as pre-alignment levels, the number of offenders
returning to state prison for parole violations within the first two years
dropped from 55 percent to 16.5 percent.

While crime increases throughout California in the last year and half can't be
tied conclusively to AB 109 or Prop. 47, four officers in Southern California
have died in the last six months to attacks by repeat offenders, said Michael
Rushford, president of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation.

"The wheels are falling off the train," he said. "The fact that it hasn't fallen
in the ocean yet doesn't mean we shouldn't be concerned."

Rushford said the shooting of Boyer and police deaths in Los Angeles and Palm
Springs last year all involved recently released parolees. In the two other
cases, the suspects had parole violations - drunk driving charges - that would
have historically resulted in them going back to state prison, but instead only
resulted in "flash incarcerations" under AB 109 and Prop. 47.

"It's likely that both of these offenders were just as the Whittier shooter was,
back on the streets because of these laws," he said.

Flash incarcerations are an intermediate sanction introduced by AB 109 that
punishes a probationer with up to 10 days in jail for minor violations. Mejia
was flash incarcerated five times in the last year for violations of his
community supervision, according to arrest logs.

He was out of custody Monday when authorities say he crashed a stolen car and
then opened fire on officers responding. Boyer died in the gunfight and another
officer was wounded. Mejia is also suspected in the death of his 46-year-old
cousin, Roy Torres, in East Los Angeles earlier in the day.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Man guilty of kidnapping his ex Police to hold checkpoint on Friday DUI/driver's
license checkpoint set Traffic stop leads to weapons arrest

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 633 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, Sept. 2, 2017.

FULL TEXT

A jury convicted a Los Angeles man on Thursday of attacking, threatening and
kidnapping his ex-girlfriend in Duarte in May, authorities said.

The Alhambra jury found Albert Casillas, 38, guilty of kidnapping, domestic
violence and making criminal threats following a four-day trial, Los Angeles
County District Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago said in a written
statement.

He faces up to 24 years and four months in state prison when he returns to the
Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County Superior Court on Sept. 28.

The series of crimes took place on May 3.

"Casillas went to his ex-girlfriend's Duarte home and, while in front of the
woman's residence, forced her into his vehicle and threatened to hurt her if she
got out," Santiago said. Casillas then drove the victim from the kidnapping
scene at Millbrae and Central avenues to his home in East Los Angeles.

A witness reported the abduction, and deputies arrived to find the woman
suffering from injuries to her body, Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John
McClure said at the time.

The woman told deputies she had not been the victim of any crime, but deputies
arrested Casillas based on her injuries and the accounts of witnesses, McClure
said.

The jury convicted Casillas of all three crimes with which he was charged.

Police in Pasadena are planning to hold a sobriety and driver's licence
checkpoint, as well as keep an extra eye out for red light violations, on Friday
ahead of Labor Day weekend, authorities said.

The checkpoint will be held from 7 p.m. Friday to 3 a.m. Saturday and an
undisclosed spot within the city, Pasadena police Lt. Diego Torres said in a
written statement.

Additionally, Pasadena police also plan special enforcement throughout the day,
with an emphasis on red light violators, according to Torres.

Funding for both operations is being provided by a grant from the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, through the California Office of Traffic
Safety.

Police will be keeping an eye out for drunken and drug-impaired drivers and
checking driver's licenses during a checkpoint in the city next week.

The checkpoint will be held from 8:30 p.m. Friday, Sept. 8 to 3 a.m. Saturday,
Sept. 9. Monrovia police did not indicate where in the city officers would set
up the checkpoint.

For the past three years, DUI-related collisions in the city have resulted in 35
crashes where 48 people were injured, according to Monrovia police in a
statement.

The checkpoint is funded by a grant from the California Office of Traffic
Safety, through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

Deputies who approached a man for a traffic violation last week ended up
arresting him after discovering he had with him loaded handguns, a shotgun, an
expandable baton, pepper spray, a security guard badge and his brother's ID in
Rowland Heights, officials said.

Alejandro Raygoza, 25, of La Verne was arrested on suspicion of possession of
concealed, loaded weapons during the incident, which unfolded about 8:20 a.m.
Aug. 24 along Fairway Drive near the 60 Freeway, Los Angeles County sheriff's
officials said Thursday in a written statement.

Deputies first approached a car after noticing it was impeding traffic,
according to the statement. As they spoke with the driver, they noticed he had a
handgun holstered on his waist.

"The driver claimed to be a security guard and handed the deputies an ID," the
statement said. "When the deputies questioned the driver about the ID they
discovered he had handed them his brother's ID and he is not licensed to carry
firearms."

Inside the car, deputies found an additional handgun, a shotgun and the other
items, authorities said. It was not clear why the suspect was driving around
with the weapons.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             August 4, 2017 Friday

Sheriff fears immigration policies could cost millions

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 971 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell says he's concerned that President
Donald Trump's administration could exclude the department for up to $132
million in federal law enforcement grants over the next three years as penalty
for its limited cooperation with immigration officials.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell says he has been lobbying President
Donald Trump's administration to avoid potentially losing out on as much as $132
million in federal law enforcement grants during the next three years due to the
department's immigration policies.

During recent trips to Washington D.C., McDonnell said he has met with U.S.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions, former Department of Homeland Security Secretary
John F. Kelly - now Trump's chief of staff - as well as Congress members to urge
against any restrictions or cuts to future federal grants.

The Trump administration has begun cracking down on so-called "sanctuary"
jurisdictions that it says protect undocumented immigrants who have committed
crimes while undermining the nation's laws.

"It would have a negative impact on public safety on L.A. County and Southern
California," McDonnell said in a recent phone interview of the potential loss of
resources.

On Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions sent letters to four cities -
including two in California - threatening to deny federal crime-fighting aid if
the cities don't step up efforts to help detain and deport people living in the
country illegally.

The targeted cities - which have all struggled with crime - are Stockton, San
Bernardino, Baltimore and Albuquerque, New Mexico. All expressed interest in the
Justice Department's new Public Safety Partnership, federal officials said. The
program provides assistance from federal agents, analysts and technology to find
solutions to crime.

While the Justice Department did not call out any communities in L.A. County in
its latest move to punish so-called sanctuary cities, McDonnell has said the
county's limited cooperation with federal immigration officers strikes a
necessary balance between public safety and public trust.

The bulk of federal grant funds that McDonnell fears could ultimately be in
question - $105 million of the $132 million - would come from DHS for the
continued development of a system to enhance radio and broadband communication
for police, firefighters, paramedics and other emergency responders in the
county.

The Los Angeles Regional Interoperable Communications System, which has been in
the works since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, also improve
communication between local agencies and their state and federal partners.

"It allows various departments to communicate with each other, particularly
during times of emergency but on a regular basis as well," McDonnell said.

For now, only a small fraction of the $132 million in federal grants that the
Sheriff's Department would expect to benefit from in the next three years
appears to be in jeopardy. The U.S. Department of Justice announced new
conditions last week for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants
Program, a crime-fighting program that helps communities target their most
pressing needs.

Los Angeles County received $1.17 million in the so-called Byrne JAG funds for
drug enforcement, education and prevention for 2017, according to county
documents.

L.A. County's Office of County Counsel still is reviewing these new conditions
to determine if the Sheriff's Department would be considered compliant, said
L.A. County Assistant Sheriff Eddie Rivero, who is McDonnell's point person on
immigration matters. The Justice Department declined to comment specifically on
the Sheriff's Department's policies.

One of the new conditions requires jurisdictions to allow federal immigration
officers into detention facilities. While the Sheriff's Department allows U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement access to interview certain inmates in jails
and to pick them up at the time of their release, it restricts the agency's
access to those with serious offenses specified under the state's Trust Act -
though it's not required to do so.

The Sheriff's Department believes that limiting ICE's access to these serious
offenders helps it continue "to build trust within the community," Rivero said.

Some immigrant rights advocates argue the sheriff should not cooperate with ICE
at all.

Besides the Byrne JAG grants, sheriff's officials say they're concerned that
similar conditions could also be placed on other federal grant programs the
department has been benefiting from. If so, a Justice Department program that
provides some reimbursement to state and local governments for the costs of
incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens could also be at risk. Grant funds
benefiting the Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Task Force and the Los
Angeles Joint Regional Taskforce, which is a regional anti-terrorism effort,
might also be impacted, officials said.

"Federal grant funding is critical for the safety of our communities," Rivero
said in a written statement. "The loss of these funds would be detrimental to
advancements in technology, the fight against terrorism, narcotics trafficking,
human trafficking and many other vital programs."

The department would have to seek other sources, such as state and county
funding, if these funds were no longer available, Rivero said.

Complicating matters is state Senate Bill 54, sometimes referred to as the
"sanctuary state" bill, which would prohibit the use of state and local public
resources to aid ICE agents in deportation actions. That bill has been passed by
the state Senate and is making its way through the Assembly.

McDonnell noted that his primary concern is not financial but about keeping and
maintaining the public's trust.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 22, 2017 Sunday

Asian-Americans launch website to log hate crimes

BYLINE: Deepa Bharath; dbharath@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

ABSTRACT

OCR-L-HATECRIMESITE-0122 | Asian Americans Advancing Justice, a Los Angeles
-based advocacy organization for Asian Americans, has launched a website to
encourage members of the Asian American community all over Southern California
and around the nation to report hate crimes or hate incidents they experience or
encounter. The goal of this website, they say, is to bring attention to the fact
that Asian Americans are being victimized as a result of the anti-Chinese
rhetoric during the election season and afterward, and that it is getting lost
in the concerns about anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant sentiments and incidents. I
will be speaking with an activist in the San Fernando Valley who lost a family
member back in the '90s to a hate crime and a lawyer in Irvine who a month
before the election was almost run over by a driver as he yelled: "Go back to
China." Deepa Bharath/Smith 20-25" Photos: TBD Deadline: Friday 3 p.m.

FULL TEXT

"Go back to (expletive) China!"

Gloria Lee can still see the anger and hatred on the face of the man who uttered
those words. On a warm afternoon in September, the lawyer was crossing the
street toward her firm's offices wearing a crisp dress suit when a car screeched
to a halt beside her, almost hitting her.

"The driver rolled down the window and yelled at me to go back to China," said
Lee, a first-generation Korean-American, born in Chicago and raised in Southern
California.

Lee is the client relations partner at Rutan & Tucker, an alum of Stanford
University and UC Berkeley Law School, and was named a "rising star" by the
Southern California Super Lawyers publication for four consecutive years, 2012
to 2016.

"I was shocked," she said. "I realized that despite (my) accomplishments or
contributions to the community, some people still just see me as a foreigner who
doesn't belong."

Lee is not alone, says Karin Wang, spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Asian
Americans Advancing Justice (AAAJ), which has launched a website,
Standagainsthatred.org, to help docu

ment, track and share experiences such as Lee's.

"Our goal is not just to have a place where we can share stories, but also ...
give people advice about complaints and legal actions they may be able to file,"
Wang said.

The increase in hate crimes and hate incidents in 2015 statewide and in Southern
California makes such a website increasingly necessary and relevant, she said.

According to the Los Angeles Human Relations Commission's 2015 Hate Crimes
Report, hate crimes in Los Angeles County jumped 24 percent in 2015.
Specifically, the report showed that hate crimes targeting Asian-Americans, the
majority of which were people of Chinese descent, jumped from six to 18 during
this time.

Wang said while hate crimes and hate incidents committed against Muslims get a
lot of media attention, incidents involving Asian-Americans do not. She said
Donald Trump's anti-China rhetoric making China the "economic enemy" during his
campaign may have played a part in rousing these sentiments.

"It's reminiscent of the 1980s when Japan was portrayed as the economic enemy,
particularly as a threat to the U.S. auto industry," she said.

Wang gave the example of the death of Vincent Chin in 1982. Chin was
misidentified as a Japanese man by two auto industry workers, who bludgeoned him
with a baseball bat in the Detroit suburb of Highland Park.

Standagainsthatred.org will track numbers, but it is the individual stories that
will energize it, Wang said. The site is open to people of all ethnicities, she
said.

"The reality is people, at some point, become numb to numbers," Wang said. "But
they respond to the news and they respond to stories."

When her organization posted a news story last month about True Light Christian
Church in Buena Park being graffitied with swastikas and racial slurs, Wang
said, it was widely shared in the Asian-American Pacific Islander community.

"People were able to relate to it because they went to church there or they
lived near the church," she said.

AAAJ will help those who come through the website assess their legal options,
said Nicole Gon Ochi, the organization's supervising attorney.

"We could help connect people with mental health or law enforcement resources,"
she said. "We could help file a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment
and Housing. And in some cases, we could help them pursue civil litigation."

The website could be a valuable resource to the Asian-American community, said
Chino Hills resident Ishmael Ileto, a Filipino-American whose brother Joseph, a
mailman, was killed in the Aug. 10, 1999, shooting at the North Valley Jewish
Community Center in Granada Hills. White supremacist Buford O. Furrow Jr. walked
into the center's lobby and opened fire, killing Ileto and injuring five others.

"People in the Asian-American community are very hesitant to talk openly about
hate crimes," he said. "My mom, for example, didn't want to bring attention to
our family because she was scared we'd be targeted again. Being the minority,
you sometimes get the feeling that everybody is against you."

But it is crucial for victims or their families to be able to share their
stories and bring awareness to the community at large, Ileto said.

Wang said she is seeing more solidarity among minority communities, a silver
lining in the wake of increasing hate crimes and incidents.

"I hear a lot of people saying we should stand up for each other rather than
being bystanders," she said. "And that gives me hope as we move forward."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 22, 2017 Sunday

Asian-Americans launch website to log hate crimes

BYLINE: Deepa Bharath; dbharath@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

ABSTRACT

OCR-L-HATECRIMESITE-0122 | Asian Americans Advancing Justice, a Los Angeles
-based advocacy organization for Asian Americans, has launched a website to
encourage members of the Asian American community all over Southern California
and around the nation to report hate crimes or hate incidents they experience or
encounter. The goal of this website, they say, is to bring attention to the fact
that Asian Americans are being victimized as a result of the anti-Chinese
rhetoric during the election season and afterward, and that it is getting lost
in the concerns about anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant sentiments and incidents. I
will be speaking with an activist in the San Fernando Valley who lost a family
member back in the '90s to a hate crime and a lawyer in Irvine who a month
before the election was almost run over by a driver as he yelled: "Go back to
China." Deepa Bharath/Smith 20-25" Photos: TBD Deadline: Friday 3 p.m.

FULL TEXT

"Go back to (expletive) China!"

Gloria Lee can still see the anger and hatred on the face of the man who uttered
those words. On a warm afternoon in September, the lawyer was crossing the
street toward her firm's offices wearing a crisp dress suit when a car screeched
to a halt beside her, almost hitting her.

"The driver rolled down the window and yelled at me to go back to China," said
Lee, a first-generation Korean-American, born in Chicago and raised in Southern
California.

Lee is the client relations partner at Rutan & Tucker, an alum of Stanford
University and UC Berkeley Law School, and was named a "rising star" by the
Southern California Super Lawyers publication for four consecutive years, 2012
to 2016.

"I was shocked," she said. "I realized that despite (my) accomplishments or
contributions to the community, some people still just see me as a foreigner who
doesn't belong."

Lee is not alone, says Karin Wang, spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Asian
Americans Advancing Justice (AAAJ), which has launched a website,
Standagainsthatred.org, to help docu

ment, track and share experiences such as Lee's.

"Our goal is not just to have a place where we can share stories, but also ...
give people advice about complaints and legal actions they may be able to file,"
Wang said.

The increase in hate crimes and hate incidents in 2015 statewide and in Southern
California makes such a website increasingly necessary and relevant, she said.

According to the Los Angeles Human Relations Commission's 2015 Hate Crimes
Report, hate crimes in Los Angeles County jumped 24 percent in 2015.
Specifically, the report showed that hate crimes targeting Asian-Americans, the
majority of which were people of Chinese descent, jumped from six to 18 during
this time.

Wang said while hate crimes and hate incidents committed against Muslims get a
lot of media attention, incidents involving Asian-Americans do not. She said
Donald Trump's anti-China rhetoric making China the "economic enemy" during his
campaign may have played a part in rousing these sentiments.

"It's reminiscent of the 1980s when Japan was portrayed as the economic enemy,
particularly as a threat to the U.S. auto industry," she said.

Wang gave the example of the death of Vincent Chin in 1982. Chin was
misidentified as a Japanese man by two auto industry workers, who bludgeoned him
with a baseball bat in the Detroit suburb of Highland Park.

Standagainsthatred.org will track numbers, but it is the individual stories that
will energize it, Wang said. The site is open to people of all ethnicities, she
said.

"The reality is people, at some point, become numb to numbers," Wang said. "But
they respond to the news and they respond to stories."

When her organization posted a news story last month about True Light Christian
Church in Buena Park being graffitied with swastikas and racial slurs, Wang
said, it was widely shared in the Asian-American Pacific Islander community.

"People were able to relate to it because they went to church there or they
lived near the church," she said.

AAAJ will help those who come through the website assess their legal options,
said Nicole Gon Ochi, the organization's supervising attorney.

"We could help connect people with mental health or law enforcement resources,"
she said. "We could help file a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment
and Housing. And in some cases, we could help them pursue civil litigation."

The website could be a valuable resource to the Asian-American community, said
Chino Hills resident Ishmael Ileto, a Filipino-American whose brother Joseph, a
mailman, was killed in the Aug. 10, 1999, shooting at the North Valley Jewish
Community Center in Granada Hills. White supremacist Buford O. Furrow Jr. walked
into the center's lobby and opened fire, killing Ileto and injuring five others.

"People in the Asian-American community are very hesitant to talk openly about
hate crimes," he said. "My mom, for example, didn't want to bring attention to
our family because she was scared we'd be targeted again. Being the minority,
you sometimes get the feeling that everybody is against you."

But it is crucial for victims or their families to be able to share their
stories and bring awareness to the community at large, Ileto said.

Wang said she is seeing more solidarity among minority communities, a silver
lining in the wake of increasing hate crimes and incidents.

"I hear a lot of people saying we should stand up for each other rather than
being bystanders," she said. "And that gives me hope as we move forward."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            November 5, 2017 Sunday

2-month-old boy safe; his father is in custody

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 263 words

ABSTRACT

A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area, triggering
an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child returned safe
and unharmed.

FULL TEXT


GORMAN >> A man who allegedly abducted his 2-month-old son in the Gorman area,
triggering an Amber Alert, was taken into custody Saturday, with his child
returned safe and unharmed.

Jeffrey Michael Gomes, 42, and Jefferson Gomes were found about 11:50 a.m.,
according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

The announcement was made by the department's Major Crimes Bureau and the
sheriff's Santa Clarita Valley station, said Deputy Joana Warren of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

KCBS-TV reported that the boy and his father were found in the Bakersfield area,
about 90 miles northwest of Los Angeles.

They may also have been spotted Saturday morning at the Los Angeles
International Airport, said Los Angeles Airport police Officer Rob Pedregon.

About 5:15 a.m., someone reported that a white pickup truck matching Gomes'
white 2007 white Chevrolet 2500 was spotted leaving the airport's Central
Terminal Area and driving east on Century Boulevard, Pedregon said.

Officers reviewed video footage of the area and dispatched some units but were
unable to locate the truck.

"We (then) notified our jurisdictional partners," he said.

The alleged abduction of Jefferson Gomes on Friday followed some kind of
domestic violence incident, according to Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez of the
Los Angeles County Sheriff's Information Bureau.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 16, 2017 Thursday

There's a huge race gap in L.A. County incarceration

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

The incarceration rate for African Americans in Los Angeles County is 13 times
more than that for whites, according to a new research initiative by the
Advancement Project-California.

FULL TEXT

The incarceration rate for African Americans in Los Angeles County is 13 times
more than that for whites, according to a new research initiative by the
Advancement Project-California.

The rate, which is among the highest in the state, has the second highest level
of racial disparity after the Golden State's Sutter County, according to the
Race Counts project.

Whites in L.A. County were incarcerated in state prisons at a rate of 1.6 per
1,000 people, while for blacks it was 20.8 per 1,000 people, according to the
project, which cited 2013-2015 data from the California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation. Latinos were imprisoned at a rate of 4.3 of
every 1,000 people.

"Advocates in L.A. are well aware of these challenges and have won numerous
campaigns to improve the lives of people of color," the report, released with
the interactive website RaceCounts.org, stated. "But given Los Angeles' size and
its persistent race-based disparities, the work of advocates and organizers
continues to be much-needed."

L.A. County ranks the 30th most racially disparate - or unequal - county out of
the state's 58 counties across seven factors: crime and justice, education,
health care access, healthy built environment, housing, economic opportunity and
democracy.

The county was designated in the Race Counts website for all categories as
"struggling to prosper."

In the category of crime and justice, the county is ranked the 14th most
racially disparate in the state, said John Kim, executive director of the
Advancement Project-California.

"Out of the seven issue areas, crime and justice shows us to be the area of
greatest racial disparity, more so than any of the other six areas," Kim said.
"And what's driving crime and justice to the most disparate is due to racial
disparities is incarceration and fatalities by police."

Per capita, blacks in L.A. County died at the hands of police more than four
times than that of whites in 2015, the project found. Meanwhile, Latinos died at
the hands of police nearly twice that of whites.

Black fatalities from police encounters that year occurred at a rate of 1.37 per
100,000 people compared to .3 for whites and .58 for Latinos, the project found.

Of the more than 50 people who died at the hands of police in 2015, eight were
white, 28 were Latino and 11 were black.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            August 19, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Polanski case will not be dropped

BYLINE: David Ng

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Business Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 642 words


It was a dramatic moment in Roman Polanski's four-decade-long legal battle:
Samantha Geimer, the victim in the filmmaker's 1977 statutory rape case,
appeared in a Los Angeles County courtroom in June and asked the judge to drop
the case.

She said she was tired of the media spectacle, the personal anguish and the
never-ending court drama.

On Friday, Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Scott Gordon denied that
request.

"Her statement is dramatic evidence of the long-lasting and traumatic effect
these crimes, and [Polanski's] refusal to obey court orders and appear for
sentencing, is having on her life," the judge wrote in his 10-page decision.

But he added that the court isn't obligated to dismiss the case "merely because
it would be in the victim's best interest."

In his ruling, Gordon sharply rebuked Polanski, writing that his fugitive status
"continues to harm [Geimer] and compounds the trauma of the sexual assault
committed against her that gave rise to this case."

Gordon also denied Polanski's latest request to unseal testimony given in early
2010 by Roger Gunson, the original prosecutor in the case.

The testimony was "properly sealed" under state law, so "there is no basis by
which this court can revisit that question," Gordon wrote.

Gunson gave the testimony while Polanski was in custody in Switzerland and
facing extradition to the U.S. The director was ultimately freed after Swiss
officials rejected the U.S.'s request, citing the mystery surrounding the sealed
Gunson testimony.

Polanski's lawyers have long contended that the Gunson testimony contains
crucial details about a plea agreement made in the case that would have limited
the filmmaker's sentence to time he served at a Chino prison.

The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sex with a minor and was sent to Chino
for a 90-day diagnostic evaluation starting in late 1977. He was released after
spending 42 days in custody, based on the recommendation of the prison.

But when it appeared that Judge Laurence Rittenband wanted to send him back to
jail, Polanski fled the U.S. for Europe before an official sentence was handed
down.

Harland Braun, Polanski's U.S. attorney, said Friday that the director was
forced to flee because Rittenband was dishonest. He also questioned why the
Gunson testimony has remained sealed.

"It's a public proceeding -- end of story. The public should have access to it,"
Braun said in an interview.

In a filing on Friday, Braun reiterated proposals to resolve the case, including
having the court sentence Polanski in absentia.

But Gordon rejected that suggestion in April, stating that the defendant's
fugitive status disqualifies him from seeking relief in the court.

Polanski has also offered to return to L.A. and appear in court if the judge
sentences him first.

"Although Mr. Polanski accepts responsibility for his conduct, he believes the
court system should accept some responsibility for its conduct in the case,"
Braun wrote in the filing.

But Gordon turned down those suggestions on Friday without issuing a written
opinion, Braun said.

Polanski intends to continue pursuing the case by taking it to Interpol
officials in Europe, Braun said. The filmmaker is hoping to convince officials
in Lyon, France, that they should not honor any U.S. warrants for his arrest.

Two foreign decisions may work in the director's favor -- the Swiss decision in
2010 and a decision by Polish officials last year to reject a separate U.S.
extradition request.

Perhaps coincidentally, the new ruling in L.A. came on Polanski's birthday. The
Oscar-winning director -- whose films include "Rosemary's Baby," "Chinatown" and
"The Pianist" -- turned 84 on Friday.

Polanski resides primarily in France and remains an active filmmaker. He debuted
his latest movie, "Based on a True Story," at the Cannes Film Festival in May.

--

david.ng@latimes.com

Twitter: @DavidNgLAT

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SAMANTHA GEIMER, the victim in Roman Polanski's 1977 statutory
rape case, had asked the judge to dismiss the case to spare her from the ongoing
drama.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Paul Buck Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              June 23, 2017 Friday

Man gets 15 years in party killing

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales; rugonzales@scng.com @RubyGonzales2 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 275 words

ABSTRACT

Angel Barraza will be spending the next 16 years in prison for killing an
Alhambra man at a baptism party in El Monte in 1993. He was sentenced Thursday.


FULL TEXT

EL MONTE >> The man convicted of fatally shooting an Alhambra man at a baptism
party in El Monte in 1993 will spend the next 16 years in prison.

Angel Barraza, 55, was sentenced Thursday at Los Angeles Superior Court.

A jury on May 22 convicted Barraza of the voluntary manslaughter of 45-year-old
Robert Diaz Delgado.

Sarah Ardalani, spokeswoman for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's
Office, said jurors also found true a special allegation that Barraza personally
used a gun during the commission of the crime.

The two men argued while at a baptism party in the 2500 block of Sastre Avenue
on Sept. 4,1993. The prosecution said there was a confrontation and Barraza shot
Delgado.

Delgado, who was hit in the neck and shoulder, died later at Greater El Monte
Community Hospital in South El Monte. The bullet that entered his left shoulder
went through his chest and caused his death, according to the autopsy report.

Barraza fled to Mexico. Authorities caught him 21 years later when he tried to
renew an expired green card in Texas.

He arrived at the port of entry on Jan. 12, 2015, and wanted paperwork for a
green card under the name Jose Angel Barraza Gomez, according to an official
with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

When border protection officers fingerprinted Barraza, they discovered he was
wanted for the El Monte murder.

He was arrested and later sent back to California. At the time of his arrest,
federal officials said Barraza was living in Camargo, Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           November 16, 2017 Thursday

Charles Manson hospitalized; severity of illness unclear

BYLINE: Wire Services

LENGTH: 365 words



HIGHLIGHT: Authorities confirmed Wednesday that mass murderer Charles Manson is
back in a Bakersfield hospital, though the severity of his condition is unclear.



By Alene Tchekmedyian | Los Angeles Times

LOS ANGELES  Authorities confirmed Wednesday that mass murderer Charles Manson
is back in a Bakersfield hospital, though the severity of his condition is
unclear.

14 lawsuits filed on behalf of Vegas shooting victims

UCLA players suspended, thank Trump for China intervention

A necrophiliac killer was loose in our backyard? Whats his story?

Tampa killings: Man in new video is suspect, police say

Watch: McDonalds drive-thru thief caught on camera

Kern County Sheriffs Lt. Bill Smallwood confirms that Manson is at a local
hospital but could not say more.

In January, Manson, 82, was rushed to Mercy Hospital in Bakersfield for what
authorities at the time would describe only as a serious medical problem.

Manson and members of his family of followers were convicted of killing actress
Sharon Tate and six other people during a bloody rampage in the Los Angeles area
in August 1969. Prosecutors said Manson and his followers were trying to incite
a race war he dubbed Helter Skelter, taken from the Beatles song of the same
name.

Tate, the wife of director Roman Polanski, was 8 1/2 months pregnant when she
was killed at her hilltop home in Benedict Canyon on Aug. 9, 1969. Four others
were stabbed and shot to death the same night: Jay Sebring, 35; Voytek
Frykowski, 32; Abigail Folger, 25, a coffee heiress; and Steven Parent, 18, a
friend of Tates caretaker. The word pig was written on the front door in blood.

The next night, Manson rode with his followers to the Los Feliz home of Leno and
Rosemary LaBianca, then left three members to kill the couple.

Manson was initially sentenced to death. But a 1972 ruling by the California
Supreme Court found the states death penalty law at the time unconstitutional,
and his sentenced was changed to life in prison with the possibility of parole.
He has been denied parole 12 times.

During his four decades of incarceration, Manson has been anything but a model
prisoner. Among other things, Manson has been cited for assault, repeated
possession of a weapon, threatening staff and possessing a cellphone, Thornton
said this week.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 16, 2017 Thursday

Study: Prisons show race gap;
County has second-highest level of racial disparity in state, says research by
civil rights group

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 440 words

ABSTRACT

The incarceration rate for African Americans in Los Angeles County is 13 times
more than that for whites, according to a new research initiative by the
Advancement Project-California.

FULL TEXT

The incarceration rate for African-Americans in Los Angeles County is 13 times
more than that for whites, according to a new research initiative by the
Advancement Project-California.

The rateis the second-highest level of racial disparity in the state after
Sutter County, according to the Race Counts project.

Whites in L.A. County were incarcerated in state prisons at a rate of 1.6 per
1,000 people, while for blacks it was 20.8 per 1,000 people, according to the
project, which cited 2013-2015 data from the California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation. Latinos were imprisoned at a rate of 4.3 for
every 1,000 people.

"Advocates in L.A. are well aware of these challenges and have won numerous
campaigns to improve the lives of people of color," the report, released with
the interactive website RaceCounts.org, stated. "But given Los Angeles' size and
its persistent race-based disparities, the work of advocates and organizers
continues to be much-needed."

L.A. County ranks as the 30th most racially disparate - or unequal - county out
of the state's 58 counties across seven factors: crime and justice, education,
health care access, healthy built environment, housing, economic opportunity and
democracy.

The county was designated on the Race Counts

website for all categories as "struggling to prosper."

In the category of crime and justice, the county is ranked the 14th most
racially disparate in the state, said John Kim, executive director of the
Advancement Project-California, a civil rights law, policy and communications
group.

"Out of the seven issue areas, crime and justice shows us to be the area of
greatest racial disparity, more so than any of the other six areas," Kim said.
"And what's driving crime and justice to the most disparate is due to racial
disparities is incarceration and fatalities by police."

Per capita, blacks in L.A. County died at the hands of police more than four
times than that of whites in 2015, the project found. Meanwhile, Latinos died at
the hands of police nearly twice that of whites.

Black fatalities from police encounters that year occurred at a rate of 1.37 per
100,000 people compared with 0.3 for whites and 0.58 for Latinos, the project
found.

Of the more than 50 people who died at the hands of police in 2015, eight were
white, 28 were Latino and 11 were black.

Latinos make up nearly half of the county's population.

Whites make up about 27 percent and blacks make up 8 percent.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            August 19, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
County to study effect of criminal justice laws;
Blue-ribbon panel will examine how recent statewide reforms may affect crime in
L.A.

BYLINE: Nina Agrawal

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words


Michael C. Mejia violated his probation several times in the 10 months after he
was released from Pelican Bay State Prison in April 2016.

Then, on Feb. 20, authorities say, Mejia gunned down his cousin, followed by the
fatal shooting of Whittier police Officer Keith Boyer hours later. He has been
charged with two counts of murder.

The officer's slaying prompted a county investigation into Mejia's release and
his supervision by the L.A. County Probation Department. On Tuesday, it was
cited repeatedly as a reason to create a blue-ribbon commission to study the
impact of state criminal justice reforms in L.A. County.

Creation of the 27-member panel was approved by the county Board of Supervisors
in a 3-0 vote. It will examine the "challenges and opportunities" related to
recent state criminal justice reforms.

Those reforms are Assembly Bill 109, passed in 2011; Proposition 47, passed in
2014; and Proposition 57, approved in 2016 but not yet fully implemented. Those
measures shifted public safety responsibilities from the state to counties,
downgraded some property and drug felonies to misdemeanors, and allowed for the
early release of some inmates, respectively.

"This is not a referendum on criminal justice reform efforts," said Supervisor
Janice Hahn, whose district includes Whittier and who coauthored the motion with
Supervisor Kathryn Barger. "Instead, this should be a conversation on how we
make the reforms that we do have work."

Discussion at Tuesday's board meeting, however, often centered on the merits of
the reform measures and their effects on crime rates.

"While developed with good intentions, the legislation may have created
unintended consequences, placing our public and our first responders at risk,"
said L.A. County Sheriff Jim McDonnell, who favored the creation of the
commission.

"Negative impacts from these changes have been far-reaching, and crime rates are
increasing," Whittier Mayor Joe Vinatieri said.

Research from the Public Policy Institute of California in 2016 concluded that
AB 109 had little effect on the percentage of former inmates who committed
another crime and did not cause an increase in violent crimes.

Ivette Ale, with Californians United for a Responsible Budget, called Tuesday's
motion "misguided," saying it inaccurately linked the killing of Boyer to the
passage of reforms.

After Boyer's death, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation
said that AB 109 was not a factor in Mejia's release and that he had served his
full state prison terms. In addition, Mejia's criminal convictions -- for car
theft and attempted car theft -- came before Proposition 47 and would not have
been downgraded.

Under AB 109, however, the L.A. County Probation Department, rather than state
prison officials, supervised Mejia after his release.

Several people who spoke at Tuesday's meeting to oppose formation of the panel
pointed out that criminal justice reforms were passed by clear majorities of
California voters.

Others argued that the composition of the commission would undermine its
purpose.

As proposed in the original motion, 10 of the commission's members would come
from law enforcement and 10 from other areas of government. Only one
representative would come from a community-based organization providing reentry
services.

"If we are forming a commission that is tied to shooting a police officer and it
is law enforcement heavy, how could we expect this commission to come out with
an unbiased report or set of recommendations?" said Jose Osuna, external affairs
director for Homeboy Industries, a nonprofit that rehabilitates former gang
members.

After the public comments, Supervisor Hilda Solis introduced amendments to
expand the commission's membership to 27 to include more people who have been
directly affected by the reforms.

Board of Supervisors Chairman Mark Ridley-Thomas called for the motion and
amendments to be continued one week so that the board could deliberate further
and county attorneys could vet the item.

"It would be ill-advised to adopt anything absent a clear sense of what is being
brought before us," said Ridley-Thomas, who abstained from voting.

Despite his plea, Barger called for a vote. "For those that have looked at this
motion ... what are you afraid of? We have to have facts," she said.

--

nina.agrawal@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MICHAEL C. MEJIA is accused of two murders after his prison
release.  PHOTOGRAPHER: L.A. County Sheriff's Department

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday

LAPD deputy chief urges calm amid deportation fears

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 639 words

ABSTRACT

Two LAPD community forums this week on immigration and religion.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles police Deputy Chief Robert Green said he and his team are working to
"promote calm" amid concerns in the San Fernando Valley over the possibility of
mass deportations of immigrants.

Many don't understand what the Los Angeles Police Department can and can't do
when it comes to dealing with undocumented immigrants and are concerned with
hypothetical future scenarios not grounded in fact, said Green, who is
commanding officer of LAPD's Operations-Valley Bureau.

"We have to deal with reality and not feed into hysteria, because hysteria is
not good for anyone," Green said.

In the wake of President Donald Trump's vows to deport millions of undocumented
immigrants and amid speculation about what might actually happen, LAPD brass
have been visiting houses of worship and interacting with community members to
get the word out about the agency's protocols, he said. The issue is also
expected to be discussed at two LAPD community forums in the San Fernando Valley
on Wednesday tackling themes around religion and immigration.

Los Angeles police do not conduct "administrative enforcement" for the federal
government  because it needs community members to trust

them, call them and testify as witnesses in order to prevent crime, Green said.

If someone is guilty of a violent felony and there's a warrant in the system or
a court order, then Los Angeles police are mandated to hold that individual for
the federal government, he said. However, Los Angeles police do not arrest
someone for a misdemeanor crime and hold them because they have an immigration
detainer, Green said.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement "has got to get that court order or that
warrant; we're not going to violate someone's federal rights by holding them
longer than we legally can so the federal government can pick them up," he said.

When asked what the police department would do if the federal government tried
to compel them to hand over lower-level offenders, Green declined to entertain
the thought.

"Let's just deal with facts and things that are in front of us," he said.

He also noted that it was his belief that mass deportations would not happen -
and that "this will settle down" at the end of the day. He cautioned that
actions are different than rhetoric and argued there are enough "checks and
balances" in place.

"We have three branches of government; we already see them working effectively
together," he said.

LAPD's Operations-Valley Bureau's Multi-Faith Religions Community Forum will be
held from 9 to 11 a.m. Wednesday at Temple Beth Hillel, 12326 Riverside Drive,
in Valley Village.

"We're having a conversation about emerging issues that affect all the
faith-based groups in the Valley - churches, synagogues, mosques," Officer
Robert Rothman of the Operations-Valley Bureau said.

It's an opportunity for the public to meet with LAPD command staff, listen to
the "big topics of the day" and voice any concerns and suggestions, Rothman
said.

Along with Green, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Deputy Chief Mike Downing of
LAPD's Counterterrorism and Special Operations Bureau and Soraya Deen, founder
of the Muslim Woman Speakers Movement and co-founder of Peacemoms, will be
speaking at the event.

Downing, who is retiring next month, is expected to discuss religious
persecution, trends in global terrorism, and the need to build relationships
locally, police officials said.

LAPD Operations-Valley Bureau's Immigration and Trust Forum will be held from 6
p.m. to 10 p.m. Wednesday at St. Didacus Church, 14337 Astoria St., in Sylmar.

The bilingual event will feature Bishop Joseph V. Brennan of the Archdiocese of
Los Angeles, Capt. Rafael Ramirez of LAPD's West Valley Division and Linda
Lopez, Garcetti's chief of the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 7, 2017 Wednesday

Monrovia man is arrested in abductions, sex attacks;
Sheriff's identified at least six victims who were lured into car, assaulted in
motels

BYLINE: Stephanie K. Baer; stephanie.baer@langnews.com @skbaer on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities will released information at a press conference Tuesday on the
arrest of a man suspected of sexual assault of multiple female victims.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Authorities are seeking additional victims of a Monrovia man
suspected of kidnapping and sexually assaulting at least six women across the
San Gabriel Valley over the past five years.

Lt. Todd Deeds, of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Special Victims
Bureau, detailed the arrest of Jason Chung Chien Yu, 41, and described the
circumstances in which he allegedly preyed on his victims, lured them to his
dark-colored sedan and sexually assaulted them in nearby motels during a press
briefing at the Hall of Justice in downtown Los Angeles Tuesday.

"He targets women that are drug users, he meets them on the street, he lures
them into his vehicle by offering them money and drugs, he then holds them
captive and takes them to a different location and sexually assaults them,"
Deeds said.

The incidents took place in the cities of El Monte, Lynwood, Monterey Park and
Temple City between 2012 and 2017. Deeds said authorities believe Yu may have
assaulted additional women and are asking other victims to come forward.

"Because again the type of victims that he targets and the number of years that
he has been doing it we believe there are other victims out there," Deeds said.
"We want you to know that Mr. Yu is in custody and we want you to feel safe
notifying law enforcement."

Yu was arrested in Irwindale May 24 and is being held in lieu of $1.37 million
bail. He faces one count of forcible sodomy, one

count of oral copulation, one count of sexual assault, one count of false
imprisonment and one count of kidnapping to commit sexual assault, according to
court records.

He is scheduled to be arraigned June 16.

Deeds said the victims ranged in age from young adults to women in their 60s.
None of the six victims were minors, he said.

Deeds said there was "nothing significant" in Yu's criminal history. Online
court and booking records show Yu was arrested in January and April for driving
on a suspended or revoked license and was previously convicted of driving on a
highway without a valid driver's license.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Special Victims Bureau at
877-710-5273.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             June 7, 2017 Wednesday

Monrovia man is arrested in abductions, sex attacks;
Sheriff's identified at least six victims who were lured into car, assaulted in
motels

BYLINE: Stephanie K. Baer; stephanie.baer@langnews.com @skbaer on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 381 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities will released information at a press conference Tuesday on the
arrest of a man suspected of sexual assault of multiple female victims.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Authorities are seeking additional victims of a Monrovia man
suspected of kidnapping and sexually assaulting at least six women across the
San Gabriel Valley over the past five years.

Lt. Todd Deeds, of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Special Victims
Bureau, detailed the arrest of Jason Chung Chien Yu, 41, and described the
circumstances in which he allegedly preyed on his victims, lured them to his
dark-colored sedan and sexually assaulted them in nearby motels during a press
briefing at the Hall of Justice in downtown Los Angeles Tuesday.

"He targets women that are drug users, he meets them on the street, he lures
them into his vehicle by offering them money and drugs, he then holds them
captive and takes them to a different location and sexually assaults them,"
Deeds said.

The incidents took place in the cities of El Monte, Lynwood, Monterey Park and
Temple City between 2012 and 2017. Deeds said authorities believe Yu may have
assaulted additional women and are asking other victims to come forward.

"Because again the type of victims that he targets and the number of years that
he has been doing it we believe there are other victims out there," Deeds said.
"We want you to know that Mr. Yu is in custody and we want you to feel safe
notifying law enforcement."

Yu was arrested in Irwindale May 24 and is being held in lieu of $1.37 million
bail. He faces one count of forcible sod

omy, one count of oral copulation, one count of sexual assault, one count of
false imprisonment and one count of kidnapping to commit sexual assault,
according to court records. He is scheduled to be arraigned June 16.

Deeds said the victims ranged in age from young adults to women in their 60s.
None of the six victims were minors, he said.

Deeds said there was "nothing significant" in Yu's criminal history. Online
court and booking records show Yu was arrested in January and April for driving
on a suspended or revoked license and was previously convicted of driving on a
highway without a valid driver's license.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Special Victims Bureau at
877-710-5273.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Burglaries hit Valley celebrities, get reaction;
LAPD launches task force to stop knock-knock crimes

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 764 words

ABSTRACT

A new task force in the Valley was formed to combat "knock-knock" burglaries
targeting celebrities and others.

FULL TEXT

A new San Fernando Valley task force has been assembled to stop "knock-knock
burglars" believed to be targeting celebrities and others in affluent
neighborhoods, a Los Angeles police lieutenant said Thursday.

The San Fernando Valley Knock Knock Burglary Task Force will target criminal
street gang members who prey on residents living in high-end communities such as
Studio City, Woodland Hills, Encino, Tarzana, Sherman Oaks, Chatsworth and
Porter Ranch, said Lt. Todd Hankel, commanding officer of LAPD's West Valley
Area detectives.

The announcement of the task force comes amid a rash of high profile break-ins,
including at the Tarzana home of Los Angeles Lakers star Nick Young and the
Sherman Oaks residence of Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig.

While it's unclear if the crimes are related, police say thieves operating in
certain neighborhoods target specific types of homes.

"They look for single-family residences that they believe are

carrying money, jewelry and firearms," said Hankel, who oversees the task force.
"I think they're targeting people that have affluence, that have notoriety."

The burglars, who are mostly criminal gang members from South Los Angeles, meet
up at a location and organize themselves into groups of three or four before
striking neighborhoods daily in Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura or Santa Barbara
counties, according to the LAPD. One person knocks on the door of a home and if
no one answers, they will signal to the others, who will try to make entry from
the side or rear of the entrance, he said.

They will then scour the home for valuable items, even taking a safe out of a
home "if it's not attached," Hankel said.

Police started noticing crooks were using the knock-knock method in 2001. But
now that "they're hitting people that have celebrity status, it's getting a
little (more) attention," Hankel explained.

The LAPD announced Thursday that Nick Young's home was burglarized on Feb. 18 or
19. About $500,000 worth of cash, jewelry and other items were reportedly taken.
On Jan. 30, former Los Angeles Lakers guard Derek Fisher's Tarzana home was also
burglarized, with more than $300,000 worth of jewelry taken, according to
police.

Hankel could not say whether these particular incidents, which are being
investigated by the LAPD's Commercial Crimes Division, were knock-knock
burglaries.

Other recent high-profile victims around Los Angeles include hip-hop star Nicki
Minaj, whose Hollywood Hills home was targeted and pop star Alanis Morisette in
Brentwood.

"If I'm a celebrity, whether in sports or in the entertainment industry, or
anybody that's high profile, I would be very concerned (about) describing when
I'm out of town and doing all these things" on social media and elsewhere,
Hankel said.

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Thursday, he and LAPD Chief Charlie Beck
don't think the celebrity burglary cases are related.

"Beck and the police department are committed to solving these cases," Garcetti
said during a news conference at City Hall on an unrelated matter. "We've seen
pockets that have happened on the Westside a while back, and we were able to
break up one ring, but we don't think that these ones are a single ring or any
connection."

The San Fernando Valley Knock Knock Task Force, which can have about 30 people
working in a day, is culling staff from the department's North Hollywood, Van
Nuys, West Valley, Topanga and Devonshire divisions. It includes surveillance
teams, undercover detectives and patrol cars working to prevent and curb such
incidents. However, police say the task force could be temporary,

Four people suspected of committing a knock-knock burglary in Chatsworth were
arrested last month, including a juvenile, Hankel said, adding that he would
release further details at a later date.

Hankel offered suggestions on how to deter thieves, such as using video cameras,
motion sensors, alarm systems and the like. These criminals tend to be
nonconfrontational when they're confronted by a homeowner and "usually flee," he
said.

Interestingly, knock-knock rings can involve members of different gangs working
together.

"Gangs are usually territorial," Hankel said. "For this issue, they'll cross
territories to group up to have enough people to go and commit these
burglaries."

They even have a common fund that they use for bail money, he said, adding, "It
shows you how organized it is."

Staff Writer Elizabeth Chou and City News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Burglaries hit Valley celebrities, get reaction;
LAPD launches task force to stop knock-knock crimes

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 764 words

ABSTRACT

A new task force in the Valley was formed to combat "knock-knock" burglaries
targeting celebrities and others.

FULL TEXT

A new San Fernando Valley task force has been assembled to stop "knock-knock
burglars" believed to be targeting celebrities and others in affluent
neighborhoods, a Los Angeles police lieutenant said Thursday.

The San Fernando Valley Knock Knock Burglary Task Force will target criminal
street gang members who prey on residents living in high-end communities such as
Studio City, Woodland Hills, Encino, Tarzana, Sherman Oaks, Chatsworth and
Porter Ranch, said Lt. Todd Hankel, commanding officer of LAPD's West Valley
Area detectives.

The announcement of the task force comes amid a rash of high profile break-ins,
including at the Tarzana home of Los Angeles Lakers star Nick Young and the
Sherman Oaks residence of Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig.

While it's unclear if the crimes are related, police say thieves operating in
certain neighborhoods target specific types of homes.

"They look for single-family residences that they believe are

carrying money, jewelry and firearms," said Hankel, who oversees the task force.
"I think they're targeting people that have affluence, that have notoriety."

The burglars, who are mostly criminal gang members from South Los Angeles, meet
up at a location and organize themselves into groups of three or four before
striking neighborhoods daily in Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura or Santa Barbara
counties, according to the LAPD. One person knocks on the door of a home and if
no one answers, they will signal to the others, who will try to make entry from
the side or rear of the entrance, he said.

They will then scour the home for valuable items, even taking a safe out of a
home "if it's not attached," Hankel said.

Police started noticing crooks were using the knock-knock method in 2001. But
now that "they're hitting people that have celebrity status, it's getting a
little (more) attention," Hankel explained.

The LAPD announced Thursday that Nick Young's home was burglarized on Feb. 18 or
19. About $500,000 worth of cash, jewelry and other items were reportedly taken.
On Jan. 30, former Los Angeles Lakers guard Derek Fisher's Tarzana home was also
burglarized, with more than $300,000 worth of jewelry taken, according to
police.

Hankel could not say whether these particular incidents, which are being
investigated by the LAPD's Commercial Crimes Division, were knock-knock
burglaries.

Other recent high-profile victims around Los Angeles include hip-hop star Nicki
Minaj, whose Hollywood Hills home was targeted and pop star Alanis Morisette in
Brentwood.

"If I'm a celebrity, whether in sports or in the entertainment industry, or
anybody that's high profile, I would be very concerned (about) describing when
I'm out of town and doing all these things" on social media and elsewhere,
Hankel said.

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Thursday, he and LAPD Chief Charlie Beck
don't think the celebrity burglary cases are related.

"Beck and the police department are committed to solving these cases," Garcetti
said during a news conference at City Hall on an unrelated matter. "We've seen
pockets that have happened on the Westside a while back, and we were able to
break up one ring, but we don't think that these ones are a single ring or any
connection."

The San Fernando Valley Knock Knock Task Force, which can have about 30 people
working in a day, is culling staff from the department's North Hollywood, Van
Nuys, West Valley, Topanga and Devonshire divisions. It includes surveillance
teams, undercover detectives and patrol cars working to prevent and curb such
incidents. However, police say the task force could be temporary,

Four people suspected of committing a knock-knock burglary in Chatsworth were
arrested last month, including a juvenile, Hankel said, adding that he would
release further details at a later date.

Hankel offered suggestions on how to deter thieves, such as using video cameras,
motion sensors, alarm systems and the like. These criminals tend to be
nonconfrontational when they're confronted by a homeowner and "usually flee," he
said.

Interestingly, knock-knock rings can involve members of different gangs working
together.

"Gangs are usually territorial," Hankel said. "For this issue, they'll cross
territories to group up to have enough people to go and commit these
burglaries."

They even have a common fund that they use for bail money, he said, adding, "It
shows you how organized it is."

Staff Writer Elizabeth Chou and City News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday

Man who hit Union Bank twice pleads guilty to robbery

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 214 words

ABSTRACT

Bank robbery suspect pleads guilty to crimes in Hawthorne, L.A.

FULL TEXT

A 46-year-old man pleaded guilty Tuesday to two federal counts each of bank
robbery and attempted bank robbery for crimes that occurred last year in
Hawthorne and Los Angeles and netted about $2,100.

Michael Jerry Miles Jr. admitted to trying to rob a Wells Fargo bank branch at
11727 W. Olympic Blvd. in West Los Angeles on Dec. 4 by handing the teller a
note, according to his plea agreement. The teller sounded the silent alarm and
Miles left empty-handed.

The following day, Miles robbed a nearby Pacific Commerce Bank branch at 11300
W. Olympic Blvd. After handing the teller a note, the defendant took about $375
and left the bank, according to the plea document.

Miles, whose hometown was unknown, also admitted robbing a Union Bank branch at
12801 S. Hawthorne Blvd. using a demand note that stated he was armed. The
teller handed over about $1,750.

The next day, Miles returned to the Hawthorne bank and confronted a different
teller with a note. The employee opened his drawer to show Miles there was no
money inside, and the would-be robber left without any cash, according to his
plea agreement.

Each count carries a maximum sentence of 25 years in federal prison. Sentencing
is scheduled for July 24.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 17, 2017 Tuesday

U.S. Attorney's Office and FBI to Host 9th Annual Cyber Crime Prevention
Symposium for Educators, Parents and Students

LENGTH: 766  words



Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Central District of
California has issued the following news release:
The United States Attorney's Office, the FBI, and a coalition of other law
enforcement agencies and community organizations are hosting the 9th Annual
Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium on Monday, October 16. More than 450 educators,
parents, and middle and high school students are expected to attend the daylong
conference at the California Endowment Center for Healthy Communities in Los
Angeles.


          The Symposium will address a wide range of Internet-related security
and safety issues. Speakers will address and lead discussions on topics that
include child exploitation, cyberbullying, the implications of digital
communication on teen health, digital reputation, navigating peer pressure,
social media, sexting and sextortion. This year's Symposium will feature a youth
panel presentation on social media, a SnapChat geotag and a surprise appearance
during the lunch break by celebrity guests from Disney.
          "The internet and social media are a core component of our everyday
lives. Because the internet is such an integral part of their relationships,
young people must have tools to understand the online environment, the
responsibilities they have to themselves and others, and the perils of reckless
behavior," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown. "This Symposium
will provide young people with important information that will help them avoid
danger while engaging with others online."
          "I'm proud that the FBI has been part of this annual event for nine
years, during which we've seen the rules associated with the internet and cyber
security evolve dramatically," said Danny Kennedy, the Acting Assistant Director
in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "In 2017, our children must
deal with traditional challenges such as peer pressure and bullying, but we also
expect them to navigate their way through the latest technology. A byproduct of
this event has always been that the FBI learns a great deal from the students
too, as we endeavor to teach them the latest tools that can make a difference in
their lives."
          As part of this year's event, theater students from California State
University, Northridge will perform a cyber-related skit for students and
interact with the audience in a "Write-Around" exercise addressing current
issues such as sexting and cyberbullying.
          Student teams from each of the schools attending this year's Symposium
will also be invited to participate in the annual Cyber Safety Challenge.
Participating students will be asked to develop a cyber safety program for their
respective schools to educate the entire student body on the various risks
associated with cyber crime. The contest promotes good online etiquette by
challenging students to create cyber safety programs. Students participating in
this challenge will have their contest entries judged by a panel of experts, and
the winning school will be awarded prizes in May 2018.
          "The cyber world can be a wonderfully enlightening place, but it can
also be a dangerous one, especially for children," said Los Angeles City
Attorney Mike Feuer. "My office is proud to work with our law enforcement
partners to find ways to make the web safer."
          Organized under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Council on Child Abuse
and Neglect (ICAN), law enforcement agencies participating in tomorrow's
conference include the United States Attorney's Office, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, and the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet Crimes
Against Children Task Force (ICAC). The Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium is
hosted this year by the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, and the planning committee
also includes participation by Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center, the
Anti-Defamation League, Fox Entertainment Group, the Walt Disney Company, and
Warner Bros. Entertainment.
          "Children who are growing up in this high-tech age are being targeted
by online predators at an alarmingly high rate," said Deanne Tilton Durfee,
Executive Director for the ICAN. "Each year, this Symposium provides
participants with resources and tools to help children learn how to protect
themselves and be safe in the cyber world, while enjoying all of the benefits of
the fast-growing technologies."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 16, 2017 Monday

U.S. Attorney's Office and FBI to Host 9th Annual Cyber Crime Prevention
Symposium for Educators, Parents and Students

LENGTH: 753  words



Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Central District of
California has issued the following news release:
The United States Attorney's Office, the FBI, and a coalition of other law
enforcement agencies and community organizations are hosting the 9th Annual
Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium on Monday, October 16. More than 450 educators,
parents, and middle and high school students are expected to attend the daylong
conference at the California Endowment Center for Healthy Communities in Los
Angeles.



The Symposium will address a wide range of Internet-related security and safety
issues. Speakers will address and lead discussions on topics that include child
exploitation, cyberbullying, the implications of digital communication on teen
health, digital reputation, navigating peer pressure, social media, sexting and
sextortion. This year's Symposium will feature a youth panel presentation on
social media, a SnapChat geotag and a surprise appearance during the lunch break
by celebrity guests from Disney.

"The internet and social media are a core component of our everyday lives.
Because the internet is such an integral part of their relationships, young
people must have tools to understand the online environment, the
responsibilities they have to themselves and others, and the perils of reckless
behavior," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown. "This Symposium
will provide young people with important information that will help them avoid
danger while engaging with others online."

"I'm proud that the FBI has been part of this annual event for nine years,
during which we've seen the rules associated with the internet and cyber
security evolve dramatically," said Danny Kennedy, the Acting Assistant Director
in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "In 2017, our children must
deal with traditional challenges such as peer pressure and bullying, but we also
expect them to navigate their way through the latest technology. A byproduct of
this event has always been that the FBI learns a great deal from the students
too, as we endeavor to teach them the latest tools that can make a difference in
their lives."

As part of this year's event, theater students from California State University,
Northridge will perform a cyber-related skit for students and interact with the
audience in a "Write-Around" exercise addressing current issues such as sexting
and cyberbullying.
Student teams from each of the schools attending this year's Symposium will also
be invited to participate in the annual Cyber Safety Challenge. Participating
students will be asked to develop a cyber safety program for their respective
schools to educate the entire student body on the various risks associated with
cyber crime. The contest promotes good online etiquette by challenging students
to create cyber safety programs. Students participating in this challenge will
have their contest entries judged by a panel of experts, and the winning school
will be awarded prizes in May 2018.

"The cyber world can be a wonderfully enlightening place, but it can also be a
dangerous one, especially for children," said Los Angeles City Attorney Mike
Feuer. "My office is proud to work with our law enforcement partners to find
ways to make the web safer."

Organized under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect
(ICAN), law enforcement agencies participating in tomorrow's conference include
the United States Attorney's Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Los Angeles City Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department,
and the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet Crimes Against Children Task
Force (ICAC). The Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium is hosted this year by the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles, and the planning committee also includes
participation by Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center, the Anti-Defamation League,
Fox Entertainment Group, the Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros.
Entertainment.

"Children who are growing up in this high-tech age are being targeted by online
predators at an alarmingly high rate," said Deanne Tilton Durfee, Executive
Director for the ICAN. "Each year, this Symposium provides participants with
resources and tools to help children learn how to protect themselves and be safe
in the cyber world, while enjoying all of the benefits of the fast-growing
technologies."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 16, 2017 Monday

U.S. Attorney's Office and FBI to Host 9th Annual Cyber Crime Prevention
Symposium for Educators, Parents and Students

LENGTH: 753  words



Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Central District of
California has issued the following news release:
The United States Attorney's Office, the FBI, and a coalition of other law
enforcement agencies and community organizations are hosting the 9th Annual
Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium on Monday, October 16. More than 450 educators,
parents, and middle and high school students are expected to attend the daylong
conference at the California Endowment Center for Healthy Communities in Los
Angeles.



The Symposium will address a wide range of Internet-related security and safety
issues. Speakers will address and lead discussions on topics that include child
exploitation, cyberbullying, the implications of digital communication on teen
health, digital reputation, navigating peer pressure, social media, sexting and
sextortion. This year's Symposium will feature a youth panel presentation on
social media, a SnapChat geotag and a surprise appearance during the lunch break
by celebrity guests from Disney.

"The internet and social media are a core component of our everyday lives.
Because the internet is such an integral part of their relationships, young
people must have tools to understand the online environment, the
responsibilities they have to themselves and others, and the perils of reckless
behavior," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown. "This Symposium
will provide young people with important information that will help them avoid
danger while engaging with others online."

"I'm proud that the FBI has been part of this annual event for nine years,
during which we've seen the rules associated with the internet and cyber
security evolve dramatically," said Danny Kennedy, the Acting Assistant Director
in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "In 2017, our children must
deal with traditional challenges such as peer pressure and bullying, but we also
expect them to navigate their way through the latest technology. A byproduct of
this event has always been that the FBI learns a great deal from the students
too, as we endeavor to teach them the latest tools that can make a difference in
their lives."

As part of this year's event, theater students from California State University,
Northridge will perform a cyber-related skit for students and interact with the
audience in a "Write-Around" exercise addressing current issues such as sexting
and cyberbullying.
Student teams from each of the schools attending this year's Symposium will also
be invited to participate in the annual Cyber Safety Challenge. Participating
students will be asked to develop a cyber safety program for their respective
schools to educate the entire student body on the various risks associated with
cyber crime. The contest promotes good online etiquette by challenging students
to create cyber safety programs. Students participating in this challenge will
have their contest entries judged by a panel of experts, and the winning school
will be awarded prizes in May 2018.

"The cyber world can be a wonderfully enlightening place, but it can also be a
dangerous one, especially for children," said Los Angeles City Attorney Mike
Feuer. "My office is proud to work with our law enforcement partners to find
ways to make the web safer."

Organized under the aegis of the Inter-Agency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect
(ICAN), law enforcement agencies participating in tomorrow's conference include
the United States Attorney's Office, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Los Angeles City Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department,
and the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet Crimes Against Children Task
Force (ICAC). The Cyber Crime Prevention Symposium is hosted this year by the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles, and the planning committee also includes
participation by Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center, the Anti-Defamation League,
Fox Entertainment Group, the Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros.
Entertainment.

"Children who are growing up in this high-tech age are being targeted by online
predators at an alarmingly high rate," said Deanne Tilton Durfee, Executive
Director for the ICAN. "Each year, this Symposium provides participants with
resources and tools to help children learn how to protect themselves and be safe
in the cyber world, while enjoying all of the benefits of the fast-growing
technologies."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             July 27, 2017 Thursday

Authorities warn of rise in virtual kidnapping scams

BYLINE: Robert Jablon; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 507 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities are warning about a rise in virtual kidnappings _ where con artists
falsely claim to be holding victims' relatives for ransom

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> The caller who rang Valerie Sobel's cellphone had a horrifying
message: "We have Simone's finger. Do you want to see the rest of her in a body
bag?"

Then came the sound of her daughter, screaming in terror.

"She called me Mom (and said) 'I'm terrified, please help,' " Sobel recalled.

In the hours that followed, the kidnappers talked her into wiring $4,000 for
ransom. Only later did she find out there had been no kidnapping. It was a scam.

"I was in bad shape for days," she said.

On Tuesday, police and federal agents warned that so-called virtual kidnappings
are on the rise, and dozens of people already have found themselves terrorized
into giving money to con artists.

Los Angeles police alone have received more than 250 reports of such crimes in
the past two years, and people have wired more than $100,000, said Capt. William
Hayes, who commands the Robbery Homicide Division.

By comparison, actual kidnappings for ransom are rare. Los Angeles police
typically receive 10 to 15 cases a year, including kidnappings performed by
other family members and acquaintances, Hayes said.

In the fake kidnappings, the callers demand that the victims remain on the phone
so they don't have a chance to call their loved ones, officials said.

"If you get a phone call like this, immediately hang up," Hayes said. "Contact
that loved one."

The FBI began investigating a spurt of cases in 2013. A multiagency probe dubbed
Operation Hotel Tango identified at least 80 people in several states who had
received such calls, although not all sent money, said Gene Kowel, acting
special agent in charge of the FBI's criminal division in Los Angeles.

However, many of the crimes go unreported, he said.

"It's fair to say there have been thousands of calls made to U.S. victims,
primarily from Mexico," he said.

Last week, a Texas woman became the first person in the nation to be indicted in
connection with a virtual kidnapping scheme. Yanette Rodriguez Acosta, 34, of
Houston is charged with wire fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and
conspiracy to launder money. She is facing up to 20 years in prison for each of
10 counts if convicted.

The indictment alleges that Acosta and her partners used Mexican telephone
numbers to call people in Texas, California and Idaho. They allegedly fooled
people into giving them tens of thousands of dollars either through money drops
or wire transfers.

In some cases, the scammers choose area codes and make cold calls, hoping to
catch an unsuspecting victim, officials said. In others, the crooks may use
social media to obtain names of children and other facts that can be used to
frighten specific victims.

In Sobel's case, she believes the phony kidnappers obtained her daughter's
voice, perhaps from her voicemail, and then altered it.

"I was convinced that this was real," she said.

Fear for a child's safety can override skepticism, authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Access to license-plate data possible, court rules

BYLINE: Sudhin Thanawala; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

ABSTRACT

The California Supreme Court has ruled that there may be ways to require the
release of data collected by automated license plate readers

FULL TEXT

SAN FRANCISCO >> It would violate people's privacy to publicly release raw data
collected by automated license plate readers that police use to determine
whether vehicles are linked to crime, but there may be ways to make the
information anonymous that would require it to be disclosed, the California
Supreme Court said Thursday.

The ruling came in a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and
Electronic Frontier Foundation that sought a week's worth of license plate data
- millions of records - from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and Los
Angeles Police Department to "understand and educate the public on the risks to
privacy posed" by license plate readers in the area.

A unanimous Supreme Court ordered a lower court to consider methods to make the
data anonymous and determine whether any of those efforts would require its
release.

Law enforcement agencies nationwide are using license plate readers attached to
patrol cars and objects such as traffic signals. The devices indiscriminately
capture images of license plates that come into view. The information is passed
through databases to instantly check whether the car or driver has been linked
to crime.

Officials say the scans are useful in tracking stolen vehicles, missing children
and people wanted by police. For instance, authorities chasing a suspect in a
fatal shooting at Delta State University in Mississippi in 2015 used an
automatic license plate reader to track the man as he traveled across state
lines.

Privacy advocates say the systems overwhelmingly capture innocent drivers,
recording information about their locations that could be used to track their
habits and whereabouts.

The ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation said the agencies hold the data for
years, allowing officers to use it in future investigations.

The state Supreme Court rejected a lower court's decision that the scans are
part of law enforcement investigations, and therefore exempt from disclosure.

The justices said the scans were "not conducted as part of a targeted inquiry
into any particular crime or crimes."

"It is hard to imagine that the Legislature intended for the
records-of-investigations exemption to reach the large volume of data that plate
scanners and other similar technologies now enable agencies to collect
indiscriminately," Associate Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.

Peter Bibring, a senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Southern California, said
that part of the ruling was key.

"The court recognized that technology does make a difference and the exemption
for police investigations wasn't intended to encompass the kind of
indiscriminate collection of information that license plate readers make
possible today," he said.

Bibring said the ACLU wants to see whether law enforcement agencies in Los
Angeles are focusing license plate readers on lower-income communities of color
or communities of a particular religious persuasion.

A message to the Los Angeles city attorney was not immediately returned. The Los
Angeles County counsel's office didn't immediately have comment.

The court, however, said the raw data would fall into a catchall exemption under
the state's Public Records Act that allows agencies not to disclose records when
the public interest in not releasing them clearly outweighs the interest in
disclosing them.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


            RECIPIENT: Coalition To Abolish Slavery and Trafficking
                          DONOR: Los Angeles Magazine


                         LAST UPDATED: January 27, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2016

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Coalition To Abolish Slavery and Trafficking
TAXCODE:  10-0008533
URL:  http://www.castla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90036
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Magazine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017


                              299 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Access to license-plate data may be possible

BYLINE: Sudhin Thanawala; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 638 words

ABSTRACT

The California Supreme Court has ruled that there may be ways to require the
release of data collected by automated license plate readers

FULL TEXT

SAN FRANCISCO >> It would violate people's privacy to publicly release raw data
collected by automated license plate readers that police use to determine
whether vehicles are linked to crime, but there may be ways to make the
information anonymous that would require it to be disclosed, the California
Supreme Court said Thursday.

The ruling came in a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and
Electronic Frontier Foundation that sought a week's worth of license plate data
- millions of records - from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and Los
Angeles Police Department to "understand and educate the public on the risks to
privacy posed" by license plate readers in the area.

A unanimous Supreme Court ordered a lower court to consider methods to make the
data anonymous and determine whether any of those efforts would require its
release.

Law enforcement agencies nationwide are using license plate readers attached to
patrol cars and objects such as traffic signals. The devices indiscriminately
capture images of license plates that come into view. The information is passed
through databases to instantly check whether the car or driver has been linked
to crime.

Officials say the scans are useful in tracking stolen vehicles, missing children
and people wanted by police. For instance, authorities chasing a suspect in a
fatal shooting at Delta State University in Mississippi in 2015 used an
automatic license plate reader to track the man as he traveled across state
lines.

Privacy advocates say the systems overwhelmingly capture innocent drivers,
recording information about their locations that could be used to track their
habits and whereabouts.

The ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation said the agencies hold the data for
years, allowing officers to use it in future investigations.

The state Supreme Court rejected a lower court's decision that the scans are
part of law enforcement investigations, and therefore exempt from disclosure.

The justices said the scans were "not conducted as part of a targeted inquiry
into any particular crime or crimes."

"It is hard to imagine that the Legislature intended for the
records-of-investigations exemption to reach the large volume of data that plate
scanners and other similar technologies now enable agencies to collect
indiscriminately," Associate Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.

Peter Bibring, a senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Southern California, said
that part of the ruling was key.

"The court recognized that technology does make a difference and the exemption
for police investigations wasn't intended to encompass the kind of
indiscriminate collection of information that license plate readers make
possible today," he said.

Bibring said the ACLU wants to see whether law enforcement agencies in Los
Angeles are focusing license plate readers on lower-income communities of color
or communities of a particular religious persuasion.

A message to the Los Angeles city attorney was not immediately returned. The Los
Angeles County counsel's office didn't immediately have comment.

The court, however, said the raw data would fall into a catchall exemption under
the state's Public Records Act that allows agencies not to disclose records when
the public interest in not releasing them clearly outweighs the interest in
disclosing them. But the justices strongly signaled there were ways to redact
the data to avoid that concern and sent the case back to a lower court.

Bibring said he was confident the lower court would be able to release the
information in some form "that sheds light on how police actually use license
plate readers and the privacy impacts of this surveillance program."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Access to license-plate data may be possible, court rules

BYLINE: Sudhin Thanawala; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 638 words

ABSTRACT

The California Supreme Court has ruled that there may be ways to require the
release of data collected by automated license plate readers

FULL TEXT

SAN FRANCISCO >> It would violate people's privacy to publicly release raw data
collected by automated license plate readers that police use to determine
whether vehicles are linked to crime, but there may be ways to make the
information anonymous that would require it to be disclosed, the California
Supreme Court said Thursday.

The ruling came in a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and
Electronic Frontier Foundation that sought a week's worth of license plate data
- millions of records - from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and Los
Angeles Police Department to "understand and educate the public on the risks to
privacy posed" by license plate readers in the area.

A unanimous Supreme Court ordered a lower court to consider methods to make the
data anonymous and determine whether any of those efforts would require its
release.

Law enforcement agencies nationwide are using license plate readers attached to
patrol cars and objects such as traffic signals. The devices indiscriminately
capture images of license plates that come into view. The information is passed
through databases to instantly check whether the car or driver has been linked
to crime.

Officials say the scans are useful in tracking stolen vehicles, missing children
and people wanted by police. For instance, authorities chasing a suspect in a
fatal shooting at Delta State University in Mississippi in 2015 used an
automatic license plate reader to track the man as he traveled across state
lines.

Privacy advocates say the systems overwhelmingly capture innocent drivers,
recording information about their locations that could be used to track their
habits and whereabouts.

The ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation said the agencies hold the data for
years, allowing officers to use it in future investigations.

The state Supreme Court rejected a lower court's decision that the scans are
part of law enforcement investigations, and therefore exempt from disclosure.

The justices said the scans were "not conducted as part of a targeted inquiry
into any particular crime or crimes."

"It is hard to imagine that the Legislature intended for the
records-of-investigations exemption to reach the large volume of data that plate
scanners and other similar technologies now enable agencies to collect
indiscriminately," Associate Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.

Peter Bibring, a senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Southern California, said
that part of the ruling was key.

"The court recognized that technology does make a difference and the exemption
for police investigations wasn't intended to encompass the kind of
indiscriminate collection of information that license plate readers make
possible today," he said.

Bibring said the ACLU wants to see whether law enforcement agencies in Los
Angeles are focusing license plate readers on lower-income communities of color
or communities of a particular religious persuasion.

A message to the Los Angeles city attorney was not immediately returned. The Los
Angeles County counsel's office didn't immediately have comment.

The court, however, said the raw data would fall into a catchall exemption under
the state's Public Records Act that allows agencies not to disclose records when
the public interest in not releasing them clearly outweighs the interest in
disclosing them. But the justices strongly signaled there were ways to redact
the data to avoid that concern and sent the case back to a lower court.

Bibring said he was confident the lower court would be able to release the
information in some form "that sheds light on how police actually use license
plate readers and the privacy impacts of this surveillance program."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
          DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association Family Law Section


                          LAST UPDATED: June 27, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  In-Kind
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
TAXCODE:  95-3943493
URL:  http://www.hbcfl.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90010
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association Family Law Section
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017


                              302 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


            RECIPIENT: Coalition To Abolish Slavery and Trafficking
                          DONOR: County of Los Angeles


                         LAST UPDATED: January 27, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2016

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Coalition To Abolish Slavery and Trafficking
TAXCODE:  10-0008533
URL:  http://www.castla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90036
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  County of Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2017


                              303 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             June 20, 2017 Tuesday

L.A. police chief backs 'sanctuary state' bill

BYLINE: Antonie Boessenkool; aboessenkool@scng.com @antoniewrites

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

ABSTRACT

SB54

FULL TEXT

Former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck
and California Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Le[#xfffd]n voiced their
support Monday in downtown Los Angeles for de Le[#xfffd]n's bill that would
limit local and state law enforcement assistance with federal immigration action
in California.

Senate Bill 54, named theCalifornia Values Act,was approved by the state Senate
in April and is still moving through the state Assembly.

De Le[#xfffd]n, D-Los Angeles, began by thanking Holder, Beck and others for
supporting the bill, before decrying the "reckless Trump administration" for its
efforts to

withhold federal dollars from cities that say they won't cooperate with federal
immigration enforcement.

"Under Constitutional threats from a reckless Trump administration, Senate Bill
54 protects our local law enforcement and the resources that they need to keep
our communities safe," de Le[#xfffd]n said at the news conference held in the
Ronald Reagan State Building in downtown Los Angeles.

De Le[#xfffd]n noted a recent decision by a federal judge in San Francisco who
blocked President Donald Trump's order to withhold federal funding from
so-called "sanctuary cities" that don't cooperate with federal immigration
officials. But, he said, local police still need protection against "federal
overreach."

"Because we stood up to the Trump administration threat with an aggressive
defense of our immigrant communities, Attorney General [Jeff] Sessions has had
to narrow his definition of a sanctuary city," de Le[#xfffd]n said. "His plan to
punish so-called 'sanctuary cities' by withholding federal grant dollars has
been rejected by the court of law. Still, our local law enforcement officers are
under threat of being commandeered to the president's deportation forces. Senate
Bill 54 will protect local police against federal overreach."

De Le[#xfffd]n said that since the start of the year, reports of sexual assault
and domestic violence have decreased because those who might report such crimes
fear deportation if they're undocumented.

"Under Senate Bill 54, local police officers will maintain the trust of
immigrant communities that has been carefully nurtured, the trust that is so
important to our safety."

De Le[#xfffd]n also said his bill requires state corrections officials to notify
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 60 days before they release anyone with
a violent felony conviction.

"Senate Bill 54 is not about safeguarding criminals," de Le[#xfffd]n said. "It
would assure that dangerous criminals serve their full sentence, in California."

Holder, who state Senate lawmakers have hired as outside counsel, said de
Le[#xfffd]n's bill would ensure undocumented immigrants report crimes.

"California is leading," Holder said. "California is doing the right thing. This
is something that needs to be done nationwide.

"As the former attorney general of these United States, I know from experience
immigrants, even when they are victims of crime or witnesses to criminal acts,
often fear interacting with local law enforcement officers when those officers
also engage in federal immigration enforcement," Holder added. "That means more
crime. It means more victims, and it means not fewer.

"We have concluded that it is constitutional," Holder said. "Under the United
States Constitution, states have the power over the health and safety of their
residents and the allocation of state resources. Despite statements from the
Trump administration suggesting that laws similar to the California Values Act
are somehow unconstitutional, the act is a core exercise of California's
authority."

Beck said it's crucial to ensure that witnesses to crimes aren't deterred from
sharing information with police because they fear deportation.

"We do not want to lose trust, because we believe trust is the most important
thing in policing," Beck said. "The ability to get witnesses to come forward,
the ability to get victims to come forward ... can be severely detrimented by
civil enforcement of immigration by local authorities.

"This is not a soft-on-crime bill," he added. "We depend on our communities,
particularly our immigrant communities, to cooperate with us, not only to keep
them safe, but to keep all of you safe."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 12, 2017 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Las Vegas shooting victims still searching for their heroes

BYLINE:  By AMANDA LEE MYERS Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 796 words


LOS ANGELES - As soon as Chris Gilman knew she would survive the gunshot wound
she sustained in the Las Vegas massacre, she wanted to find the two strangers
who saved her life - a man and woman whose names she didn't know.

She found a Facebook page called "Find My LV Hero" and posted a plea.

"Looking for husband and wife who were by the VIP bleachers and helped me get
out," wrote Gilman, of Bonney Lake, Wash. "My wife gave the husband her shirt
and the wife held it against my side to stop bleeding as they carried me through
the VIP area out to the street."

Despite the scant details in Gilman's post, it worked. Three days later, Gilman
connected with her rescuers, Alex and Wanda Valiente, off-duty Los Angeles
County sheriff's deputies who were at the Oct. 1 concert where a gunman opened
fire from the 32nd floor of a hotel, killing 58 people and wounding hundreds.

The connection is one of about 25 made so far through the Facebook page. Nearly
six weeks after the massacre, Ashton Zyer's social media creation continues to
generate new searches for heroes who in some cases saved lives and in others
simply provided what comfort they could.

Zyer, a Las Vegas singer/songwriter, said she started the page after seeing
several people in her large social media network post about trying to find
someone.

Meghan Earley posted that she was looking for a security guard and a Las Vegas
police officer who helped her escape.

"Because of their bravery I only have a sprained ankle, cuts and bruises, as
well as a concussion and some broken teeth," she wrote on Oct. 14. "You both are
my heroes forever!!!"

Myrna Lopez is looking for a paramedic who gave the socks off his feet to her
friend when he saw her running barefoot.

"We just wanted to find him and thank him," Lopez wrote on Oct. 24. "We saved
those socks as a reminder that God was with us that night. He clothed us when we
weren't clothed."

Andrea Kelly, 41, a nurse from Calgary in Alberta, Canada, posted last week that
she was looking for a wounded young woman she can't get her out of her mind.

As Kelly fled the gunfire with her husband, she came across the woman, who had
been shot in the knee. Her foot was swelling, a sign of dangerous internal
bleeding.

"I said, 'We've got to get her on a stretcher. She's either going to die or
she's going to lose her leg,'" Kelly said. "She kept saying, 'Please don't leave
me, please don't leave me.' I said, 'I won't leave your side.'"

On the way to the hospital in the bed of a truck, Kelly, the wounded woman and
both their husbands hunkered down to avoid more bullets.

"She was bawling and hyperventilating," Kelly said. "I told her, 'You're going
to be OK. We're going to the hospital.'"

After the woman was rushed into the emergency room, Kelly never saw her again.
Kelly believes her name is Lindsey Chance, and is about 23 years old and from
Colorado.

Although Chance's name is not on the list of the dead, Kelley said she needs "to
hear her voice."

"I just need to know she's OK," Kelly said.

Lacey Tucker of Henderson, Nev., is desperate to find the couple who helped her
and her cousin and sister-in-law as the three women fled the gunfire.

Tucker had just been grazed by a bullet while shielding her cousin, and the
group was hysterical over a friend they lost track of amid the chaos.

That's when the women, all in their mid-20s, ran into a man named John and his
wife, both in their early 50s. Tucker said the couple immediately went into
"mom-and-dad mode."

At one point, John locked hands with Tucker. A wave of calm came over her.

"It was the first at-peace feeling I had when he grabbed my hand," she said. "It
was like I was a little girl and my dad just found me."

John held her hand as the group ran about 10 minutes to safety. John then told
his wife to stay with the women while he ran back to the shooting scene to find
their missing friend.

John found the missing woman by shouting her name in the last place her friends
saw her.

Amid the tears and hugs when all were reunited, John and his wife quietly left.
The women never got to say "Thank you."

"I don't think they really know what impact they had on us," Tucker said. "None
of us were severely injured, so they probably don't think they helped save lives
but they did."

Chris Gilman said she is grateful she found the couple who helped her. Gilman's
wife of 17 years, Aliza Correa, also is thankful they found Alex and Wanda
Valiente.

"I honestly believe that if it wasn't for Wanda and Alex, I would probably be
planning Chris' funeral," Correa said.

Gilman said she and Wanda Valiente now speak almost daily. But early on, Gilman
felt a little embarrassed about how much she was contacting Valiente. Her new
friend quickly put her at ease.

"She said, 'That's OK, we're family," Gilman said. "We're bonded for life."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this Tuesday, Oct. 31, 2017, photo, from left, Hillary Kane,
Samantha Carranza and Lacey Tucker pose for a portrait in Las Vegas. The three
are trying a track down a man and woman who helped them during the shooting at
the Route 91 Harvest festival in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             January 2, 2017 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CHICAGO HAS ONE OF ITS DEADLIEST YEARS

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-3

LENGTH: 619 words


CHICAGO - One of the most violent years in Chicago history ended with a sobering
tally: 762 homicides, the most in two decades in the city and more than New York
and Los Angeles combined.

The nation's third-largest city also saw 1,100 more shooting incidents last year
than it did in 2015, according to data released by the Chicago Police
Department. The statistics underline a story of bloodshed that has put Chicago
at the center of a national dialogue about gun violence.

The numbers are staggering, even for those who followed the steady news accounts
of weekends ending with dozens of shootings and monthly death tolls that hadn't
been seen in years. The increase in homicides compared with 2015, when 485 were
reported, is the largest spike in 60 years.

Police and city officials have lamented the flood of illegal guns into the city,
and the crime statistics appeared to support their claims: Police recovered
8,300 illegal guns in 2016, a 20 percent increase from the previous year.

Some neighborhoods, already scarred and gutted by years of violence, suffered
inordinately. But the danger spread into more neighborhoods, and randomness
became an element to many shootings. Crimes went up by double digits in nearly
every major category.

Trooper shooting suspect

JUNIATA TOWNSHIP, Pa. - The Facebook page of a suspect in the fatal shooting of
a first-year Pennsylvania trooper included an obscene message about dead police.

About a week before Christmas, a message posted to 32-year-old Jason Robison's
Facebook page used an obscenity to refer to police and added, "The only good cop
is a dead cop."

State police Trooper Landon Weaver, 23, was killed responding to a domestic
complaint Friday night in Huntingdon County, in central Pennsylvania. A manhunt
ended Saturday morning when police found Robison at an unoccupied mobile home in
the area.

Authorities say police shot and killed Robison when he refused commands and made
threats.

Central American surge

WASHINGTON - U.S. officials are grappling with a 15 percent surge in illegal
immigration, reflecting continued failures by the Obama administration to deter
illegal immigration along the country's southwestern border.

Homeland Security officials apprehended 530,250 illegal immigrants, and sent
450,954 people back to their home countries over the 12-month period that ended
last September, according to figures released Friday by the Department of
Homeland Security.

The majority of those apprehended come from Central American countries, and
include 137,614 families and unaccompanied children, part of an ongoing flight
from high crime and violence in Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala, which human
rights advocates have urged the administration to treat as a refugee crisis.

The 'Hollyweed' sign

LOS ANGELES - Los Angeles residents awoke early Sunday to see that one thing, at
least, looked different in the New Year: the Hollywood sign.

Armed with four tarpaulins, a prankster had climbed Mount Lee under the cover of
night to edit the iconic landmark, which was changed to "HOLLYWeeD."

Security footage recorded at 3 a.m. Sunday showed a "lone individual" climbing
up the mountain, scaling the sign's ladders and hanging tarpaulins over the O's
to change them to E's, said Sgt. Guy Juneau of the Los Angeles Police
Department.

Also in the nation...

A month after President-elect Donald Trump announced a deal with air
conditioning company Carrier to save hundreds of U.S. factory jobs that were
slated for Mexico, officials say the agreement has yet to be finalized. ... The
New York Police Department will allow officers to begin wearing beards and
turbans for religious reasons, in a policy shift intended to help diversify the
nation's largest police force.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 P.G. Publishing Co.


                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            April 19, 2017 Wednesday

Reward set to find suspect in mother's death

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 404 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles police will announce a reward on Tuesday afternoon for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of a woman's ex-boyfriend, who is wanted in
connection with her murder. Eloise Elizarrarez, the mother of three children,
was killed in Sylmar on Jan. 7 while on her way to work, Los Angeles Police
Department officials said. Detectives have identified Elizarrez's ex-boyfriend
Jose Benjamin Rodriguez as the suspect.

FULL TEXT

SYLMAR >> A $50,000 reward was offered Tuesday for information leading to the
arrest and conviction of a man suspected of fatally shooting a former girlfriend
in Sylmar.

Jose Benjamin Rodriguez, 39, is suspected in the Jan. 7 ambush killing of
34-year-old Eloise Elizarraraz, the mother of three young children, while she
drove to her first day of work at a new job, according to the Los Angeles Police
Department.

Investigators say Rodriguez was jealous after learning Elizarraraz was dating
someone else.

The reward, which was approved by the Los Angeles City Council on April 5, was
announced by police officials and City Councilman Herb Wesson on Tuesday at the
LAPD's Mission Station in Mission Hills, where Elizarraraz's mother appealed for
tips in locating Rodriguez.

Elizarraraz was found shot in her black BMW on the sidewalk at the north side of
the intersection of Harding Avenue and Tripoli Avenue, police said.

A registered nurse attempted to revive Elizarraraz with CPR before calling 911,
but she was ultimately pronounced dead at the scene.

Police said they believe Rodriguez ran Elizarraraz off the road before shooting
her.

The stolen vehicle Rodriguez drove was later found in Mexico, police said.

"All I'm asking is somebody please help the police to  put this man away before
he hurts someone else," the victim's mother Con

nie Elizarraraz said. "My grandchildren need some peace and ... I just want him
put away for what he did to my daughter and the mother of my grandchildren."

Rodriguez is Hispanic, 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighs 190 pounds. A photo
released by police shows him with the name "Eloise" tattooed in script across
the front of his neck.

Anyone with information regarding Rodriguez's whereabouts was urged to call the
LAPD's Mission Station at 818-838-9800 or Detective James Fillmore at
818-374-1929. After-hours and weekend calls should be directed to 877-LAPD-24-7.
Anonymous tips can be submitted through Crime Stoppers by calling 800-222-TIPS.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Look forward, not back, on criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Lenore Anderson

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN, IDB. No column sig.

FULL TEXT

Today, Californians of pretty much all walks of life agree: The state's criminal
justice system has been broken for decades. For at least 20 years, it was
commonplace for lawmakers to churn out "tough" crime policy that drove prison
populations and budgets up and starved investments in crime prevention and
rehabilitation. Excessive imprisonment and prison spending delivered high
recidivism rates and destabilized communities far more than they delivered any
public safety benefit.

Taxpayers now spend billions on a behemoth set of criminal justice bureaucracies
that are largely ill-equipped to effectively stop crime cycles or prevent crime
in the first place.

Voters are well aware of this structural problem, and overwhelming majorities
approved various recent justice reforms to begin changing course. There is still
a long way to go.

Despite strong data on what works better than incarceration-first policies -
community outreach and law enforcement partnerships; risk-based graduated
sanctions; supervised probation combined with substance abuse treatment;
behavioral health courts; and more - most justice systems remain stuck in the
dysfunctional practices of the past.

There is perhaps no greater responsibility of local government than protecting
public safety. Yet, too often, public officials are quick to respond to public
safety problems by questioning justice reforms, instead of completing what those
reforms started: the long-overdue task of replacing the broken justice system
with evidenced-based community safety solutions.

The recent proposal from Los Angeles County Supervisors Kathryn Barger and
Janice Hahn is familiar in that regard. Today, the Board of Supervisors will
deliberate on their proposal to establish a commission tasked with examining the
impacts of recent justice reforms on public safety in Los Angeles County. namely
those enacted under Propositions 47 and 57 and Assembly Bill 109. Undercutting
recent reforms, instead of addressing decades-old dysfunctional and imbalanced
approaches to safety, is a missed opportunity.

Public safety challenges in Los Angeles are real and must be addressed. However,
the question is not what's wrong with reforms attempting to correct problems,
but what the county can do to effectively effectuate recent reforms - and go
even farther.

Looking beyond tradition, officials will find that community leaders and crime
experts alike have known for many years what works. Powerful and effective
programs like the Watts Gang Task Force, where law enforcement and community
street intervention teams work together to address violence at the neighborhood
level; or the Community Collaborative Court in Compton that combines case
management with treatment and court supervision; or The Long Beach Trauma
Recovery Center that's providing wrap around support for crime victims and their
families, reducing crime and empowering communities in the process.

Scaling these types of programs, as well as investing in the county's substance
abuse and mental health treatment infrastructure, and transitional housing and
job training for people exiting the justice system are all strategies that need
immediate attention. The need to scale what works and fill gaps in the community
infrastructure has been apparent for many years.

In addition to asking a different set of questions, local officials should seek
to bring together a broader set of stakeholders. While law enforcement is key,
as the best leaders in law enforcement often say, law enforcement alone cannot
solve public safety problems. Community leaders, crime survivors, formerly
incarcerated people, and leaders in public health, substance abuse recovery and
economic development must be elevated and enrolled if we are serious about
solutions.

When the Board of Supervisors meets today, instead of seeking to return to the
failed policies of the past, a more productive conversation would be focused on
how to effectuate the reforms that have already been adopted, and how to finally
invest in a crime prevention and treatment infrastructure that can create the
safe and healthy communities we all desire.

Lenore Anderson is executive director of Californians for Safety and Justice, a
nonprofit organization based in Oakland.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 27, 2017 Monday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 51 words

ABSTRACT

Covering a day of terror in the East Valley

FULL TEXT

Coming Tuesday

The Daily News will continue its look back at the North Hollywood Shootout.

Look for:

o Interviews with the people affected

o Photos - then and now

o Check out special online features, including videos, a timeline and galleries.

dailynews.com


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 27, 2017 Monday

Remembering North Hollywood's day of terror;
Chaos erupted when two bank robbers shot it out with police

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 852 words

ABSTRACT

Covering a day of terror in the East Valley

FULL TEXT

On the last day of February in 1997, chaos erupted in the 6600 block of Laurel
Canyon Boulevard in North Hollywood as two men tried to shoot their way through
police after robbing a Bank of America branch.

Myself, and then-colleague Jaxon Van Derbeken, ended up in the midst of a story
that terrorized the East Valley for hours and went viral nationally. It would
become known as the "North Hollywood Shootout."

I was covering business and Van Derbeken had the cops beat. The job dictated
that I got in earlier and, as usual, the televisions were tuned in to local news
channels.

Shortly after 9:30 a.m. they all began broadcasting an unbelievable scene.

Two heavily armed men in body armor and firing assault rifles were in a pitch
gunfight with Los Angeles Police Department officers, who were heavily
outgunned.

"Wilcox, get over there," an editor yelled.

It seemed like I made it from

Woodland Hills to North Hollywood in record time. Police had sealed off the
streets near the crime scene. But I was able to get past the police barriers and
found a parking stop on Ben Avenue just south of Victory Boulevard about two
blocks south of the bank and gunbattle.

It was a chaotic scene, with streets blocked by police cars, firetrucks and TV
and radio station vans. Authorities had closed Hollywood Freeway and streets in
the community were jammed.

Most of the businesses in the area had been evacuated and people milled about
several blocks away in places that had been deemed safe.

The bank is at the southeast corner of Laurel Canyon and Archwood Street and I
ran north on Agnes Avenue then west on Kittridge Street to try get as close to
the scene as possible.

I cobbled together some information and went looking for a pay phone to relay
info back to the newsroom, since the cellular craze had not yet arrived. I knew
there were pay phones at the strip mall across from the bank on Laurel, but
because of the nearly 2,000 rounds fired and the bodies of the dead robbers,
Emil Matasareanu, 27, and Larry Phillips, 31, were still at the scene, police
would not let anyone go on the mall.

The area was swarming with what looked like several hundred police officers.

"It is nothing short of full-scale military battle facing this kind of thing,"
said Bill Rehder, at the time the bank robbery coordinator for the FBI's Los
Angeles office, said during a briefing. "I've never seen anything like it. There
hasn't been anything like it."

I went back up to Victory to find a phone but they were either broken or in use
so I went into A-1 Home Improvement near where my car was parked and asked owner
Rick Moran if I could use his phone and work out of the store.

He said yes, and he still remembers our visit 20 years later.

Today, the shop looks just like it did then, packed with screens, doors, glass
panes, hardware and door grills.

"That was the day everything closed down. I knew you didn't have a cell phone
and needed a base. I wasn't going to have any business, so I said come on in,"
Moran recalled during a visit to his shop last week. "You did most of your work
on the phone."

He happened to listen to a police scanner while he worked and heard all the
chatter about the siege while watching the scene unfold on his store's
television set.

"There was a wind blowing that day and I could smell gun smoke," he recalled.

I called the city desk, dictated my notes and gave them the store's address so
Van Derbeken could find me and phone his stuff in.

The sound on the office televisions was off when the shooting started but some
news crews at the scene had audio. They played it back for us and it was
terrifying.

Van Derbeken and I thought the death toll would be in at least double figures.

Every time we left the store there was a sense of unease because police thought
the two robbers, who had with five assault rifles, might have accomplices.

People in the area were visibly shaken, and they repeatedly asked me what had
happened and how many people had been killed. Information traveled slower back
then and we would not learn much until later that night.

At one point in the afternoon a SWAT team assembled behind a white parking
structure on Agnes and Victory and began methodically moving toward a house
where someone thought they saw a man hiding under a blue tarp.

Myself and a TV reporter followed behind, keeping an eye on the officers and
looking for places to hide if shooting did break out.

But they didn't find anything.

Turned out that the wind Moran mentioned earlier had been ruffling the tarp.

Van Derbeken and I got periodic updates from  police throughout the day but did
not see each other until about 9:30 p.m.,  when the LAPD held their last press
conference of the day.

The toll: 11 wounded police officers and six civilians. The bad guys were the
only ones killed.

Moran said he was closing the shop around 5 p.m. and the last call I made from
there was to my wife.

She had seen me following the SWAT team on television and she was not happy.

"What were you thinking. You could have been shot. Don't ever do that again,"
she said.

Luckily, I haven't.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
               DONOR: Los Angeles County Asian American Employees
                                  Association


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250 - 499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Asian American Employees Association
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              311 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
             DONOR: Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, Afl Cio


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 1,199

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, Afl Cio
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              312 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
                 DONOR: Los Angeles Center for Law and Justice


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250 - 499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Center for Law and Justice
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              313 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           August 16, 2017 Wednesday

Can L.A. fill the cracks in criminal justice system?

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

ABSTRACT

Saying they want to strike a balance between public outcry over rising crime
rates and statewide criminal justice reforms, Los Angeles County supervisors
voted Tuesday to approve the formation of a blue-ribbon commission to dig deeper
into how best to rehabilitate low-level criminals while also protecting
communities.

FULL TEXT

Saying they want to strike a balance between public outcry over rising crime
rates and statewide criminal justice reforms, Los Angeles County supervisors
voted Tuesday to approve the formation of a blue-ribbon commission to dig deeper
into how best to rehabilitate low-level criminals while also protecting
communities.

The 3-to-0 vote to approve the commission came after some soul-searching among
some supervisors who heard almost 60 people speak at the board meeting downtown
to express views for and against the need for a commission on public safety.
Most in favor included mayors, police chiefs and businesses leaders from across
the county's 88 cities who said while such reforms such as AB 109, as well as
voter-approved Propositions 47 and 57, were forged with intention to save money
by alleviating overcrowded prisons, there were no safety nets in place to steer
low-level offenders into drug treatment, anger management and mental health
services. As a result, they say drug use, homelessness and related crimes all
have increased.

"While developed with good intentions, the legislation may have created
unintended consequences and places our first-responders at risk," said Los
Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell. "We have an obligation to be the best we
could be. It's not about politics but about public safety."

But those opposed to it included members of community programs that help former

offenders with jobs and education, such as the well-known Homeboy Industries.
Members of such groups cautioned the board that forming a commission that
favored law enforcement tips the balance away from criminal justice reform.

"We believe we should be looking forward not backward," said Alex Johnson, the
managing director for Californians for Safety and Justice, the group behind the
creation of Proposition 47. Known as the Safe Neighborhoods and Schools Act.
Proposition 47 allows six nonviolent felonies - such as simple drug possession
or petty theft under $950 - to be changed to misdemeanors on old criminal
records. But critics charge without the threat of incarceration, too many people
are skipping drug treatment.

"Public safety challenges in L.A. County are real and must be addressed, but it
is irresponsible to blame everything but the weather on reforms," Johnson
acknowledged, but said the blue ribbon commission is not the right solution.

"(This commission) will be nonproductive," he said. "Reforms like (Proposition
47) are more popular than ever."

The seed for the formation of the commission on public safety formed in
February, when Supervisors Kathryn Barger and Janice Hahn called for an
investigation into the fatal shooting of Whittier police Officer Keith Boyer by
suspect Michael Christopher Mejia. Mejia, 26, is a known gang member who also is
suspected of shooting a relative before gunning down Boyer. In and out of prison
for several crimes, Mejia was released and under parole when he shot Boyer. His
release was seen by the public as a breach in the provisions of AB 109, an early
release initiative signed by Gov. Jerry Brown in 2011.

Barger and Hahn introduced the motion to form the blue-ribbon commission to
explore "solutions to restore the lives of the individuals entangled in the
justice system."

The commission would be made up of members of law enforcement as well as
business leaders, but after hearing public criticism about the lack of
involvement of community groups, Hahn and Supervisor Solis amended the motion,
to include community leaders.

Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas, who abstained, had hoped the board would postpone
the vote until next week to consider the testimony raised. Supervisor Sheila
Kuehl was absent Tuesday.

But Barger said the commission was needed, not to favor law enforcement, but to
start collecting data on arrests and on those released early.

"The motion is not intended to divide but to unite those with common goals,"
Barger said. "Rehabilitation works when people are required to access them. We
have people getting arrested and re-arrested."

Hahn said while criminal justice reform was needed because of overcrowded
prisons, she was disappointed with the lack of transparency from the state into
who is being released and if the system is working.

The investigation into Mejia, who was under the supervision of the Los Angeles
County Probation Department, remains classified and confidential and has not
been released to the public, Hahn said.

"I think the public has a right to see these findings, and I for one believe we
should release it," Hahn said. "I know it may be more complicated ... but we
should not be afraid of the truth. Both the classified report and result of this
blue-ribbon commission should be made public."

Probation chief Terri McDonald told the board she could not comment on why the
report is confidential because it was part of a criminal investigation.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
               DONOR: County of Los Angeles, Office of Supervisor


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500 - 4,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  County of Los Angeles, Office of Supervisor
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
                DONOR: West Los Angeles United Methodist Church


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250 - 499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  West Los Angeles United Methodist Church
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              316 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
                     DONOR: County of Los Angeles ('13 '16)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250,000 - 499,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  County of Los Angeles ('13 '16)
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
            DONOR: County of Los Angeles Department of Public Social
                               Services ('13 '16)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 250,000 - 499,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  County of Los Angeles Department of Public Social Services ('13 '16)
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              318 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Two charged in bodyguard's stabbing;
The victim works for alt-right figure, who calls it a hate crime.

BYLINE: James Queally, Matt Pearce

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 499 words


Two men were charged with attempted murder Tuesday in the stabbing of a man who
works as a bodyguard for a nationally known figure popular among the alt-right,
prosecutors said.

Edgar Khodzhasaryan, 30, of Glendale and Arsen Bekverdyan, 31, of Burbank were
charged with attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon in the stabbing
after a dispute in a Santa Monica parking structure Saturday, said Sarah
Ardalani, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles County district attorney's office.

Tim Gionet, a popular alt-right Internet personality better known by his Twitter
handle, @BakedAlaska, identified the victim as Antonio Foreman. Gionet did not
witness the attack but said he spoke with the victim when he visited him in the
hospital Monday.

Gionet, who said Foreman sometimes works for him as a bodyguard, told his more
than 175,000 Twitter followers that the assault was politically or racially
motivated. Foreman is an ardent supporter of President Trump and had been
leaving an event in support of the president when he was attacked, Gionet said.

Law enforcement officials flatly dismissed the claim.

Prosecutors did not file a hate crime enhancement with the charges, Ardalani
said. Lt. Saul Rodriguez, a Santa Monica Police Department spokesman, said the
attack was spurred by an argument.

"There's nothing here that would lead us to believe it was targeted or a hate
crime or anything like that," Rodriguez said.

Khodzhasaryan and Bekverdyan were leaving the parking structure and trying to
call for a parking attendant to help them operate the gate about 11 p.m.
Saturday when the victim "made a comment to the suspects which led to an
argument," Rodriguez said.

All three men got out of their vehicles and a fistfight erupted, Rodriguez said.
The suspects fled a short time later, and the victim realized he had been
stabbed, Rodriguez said. The victim, whom Rodriguez would not identify, was
transported to a hospital in critical condition.

Khodzhasaryan and Bekverdyan were arrested a short time later while being
treated for minor injuries at a hospital, Rodriguez said. Khodzhasaryan is also
suspected of a probation violation.

Both were being held in lieu of $1 million bail and were scheduled to be
arraigned in the Airport Courthouse on Tuesday afternoon, Ardalani said. It was
not immediately clear who was representing them.

Gionet is a former BuzzFeed employee and popular right-wing Internet personality
who has many fans among the alt-right movement, a loosely connected fraternity
of white nationalists and other far-right groups.

Gionet told The Times that Foreman was stabbed nine times by two suspects who
made anti-white comments either before or during the attack. Gionet said
Foreman, whom he described as one of his best friends, was in stable condition
at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles on Monday.

On Twitter, Gionet alleged one of the suspects yelled, "You're getting the
shank, white boy," before the attack.

--

james.queally@latimes.com

matt.pearce@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Look forward, not back, on criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Lenore Anderson

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN, IDB. No column sig.

FULL TEXT

Today, Californians of pretty much all walks of life agree: The state's criminal
justice system has been broken for decades. For at least 20 years, it was
commonplace for lawmakers to churn out "tough" crime policy that drove prison
populations and budgets up and starved investments in crime prevention and
rehabilitation. Excessive imprisonment and prison spending delivered high
recidivism rates and destabilized communities far more than they delivered any
public safety benefit.

Taxpayers now spend billions on a behemoth set of criminal justice bureaucracies
that are largely ill-equipped to effectively stop crime cycles or prevent crime
in the first place.

Voters are well aware of this structural problem, and overwhelming majorities
approved various recent justice reforms to begin changing course. There is still
a long way to go.

Despite strong data on what works better than incarceration-first policies -
community outreach and law enforcement partnerships; risk-based graduated
sanctions; supervised probation combined with substance abuse treatment;
behavioral health courts; and more - most justice systems remain stuck in the
dysfunctional practices of the past.

There is perhaps no greater responsibility of local government than protecting
public safety. Yet, too often, public officials are quick to respond to public
safety problems by questioning justice reforms, instead of completing what those
reforms started: the long-overdue task of replacing the broken justice system
with evidenced-based community safety solutions.

The recent proposal from Los Angeles County Supervisors Kathryn Barger and
Janice Hahn is familiar in that regard. Today, the Board of Supervisors will
deliberate on their proposal to establish a commission tasked with examining the
impacts of recent justice reforms on public safety in Los Angeles County. namely
those enacted under Propositions 47 and 57 and Assembly Bill 109. Undercutting
recent reforms, instead of addressing decades-old dysfunctional and imbalanced
approaches to safety, is a missed opportunity.

Public safety challenges in Los Angeles are real and must be addressed. However,
the question is not what's wrong with reforms attempting to correct problems,
but what the county can do to effectively effectuate recent reforms - and go
even farther.

Looking beyond tradition, officials will find that community leaders and crime
experts alike have known for many years what works. Powerful and effective
programs like the Watts Gang Task Force, where law enforcement and community
street intervention teams work together to address violence at the neighborhood
level; or the Community Collaborative Court in Compton that combines case
management with treatment and court supervision; or The Long Beach Trauma
Recovery Center that's providing wrap around support for crime victims and their
families, reducing crime and empowering communities in the process.

Scaling these types of programs, as well as investing in the county's substance
abuse and mental health treatment infrastructure, and transitional housing and
job training for people exiting the justice system are all strategies that need
immediate attention. The need to scale what works and fill gaps in the community
infrastructure has been apparent for many years.

In addition to asking a different set of questions, local officials should seek
to bring together a broader set of stakeholders. While law enforcement is key,
as the best leaders in law enforcement often say, law enforcement alone cannot
solve public safety problems. Community leaders, crime survivors, formerly
incarcerated people, and leaders in public health, substance abuse recovery and
economic development must be elevated and enrolled if we are serious about
solutions.

When the Board of Supervisors meets today, instead of seeking to return to the
failed policies of the past, a more productive conversation would be focused on
how to effectuate the reforms that have already been adopted, and how to finally
invest in a crime prevention and treatment infrastructure that can create the
safe and healthy communities we all desire.

Lenore Anderson is executive director of Californians for Safety and Justice, a
nonprofit organization based in Oakland.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Look forward, not back, on criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Lenore Anderson

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 720 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN, IDB. No column sig.

FULL TEXT

Today, Californians of pretty much all walks of life agree: The state's criminal
justice system has been broken for decades. For at least 20 years, it was
commonplace for lawmakers to churn out "tough" crime policy that drove prison
populations and budgets up and starved investments in crime prevention and
rehabilitation. Excessive imprisonment and prison spending delivered high
recidivism rates and destabilized communities far more than they delivered any
public safety benefit.

Taxpayers now spend billions on a behemoth set of criminal justice bureaucracies
that are largely ill-equipped to effectively stop crime cycles or prevent crime
in the first place.

Voters are well aware of this structural problem, and overwhelming majorities
approved various recent justice reforms to begin changing course. There is still
a long way to go.

Despite strong data on what works better than incarceration-first policies -
community outreach and law enforcement partnerships; risk-based graduated
sanctions; supervised probation combined with substance abuse treatment;
behavioral health courts; and more - most justice systems remain stuck in the
dysfunctional practices of the past.

There is perhaps no greater responsibility of local government than protecting
public safety. Yet, too often, public officials are quick to respond to public
safety problems by questioning justice reforms, instead of completing what those
reforms started: the long-overdue task of replacing the broken justice system
with evidenced-based community safety solutions.

The recent proposal from Los Angeles County Supervisors Kathryn Barger and
Janice Hahn is familiar in that regard. Today, the Board of Supervisors will
deliberate on their proposal to establish a commission tasked with examining the
impacts of recent justice reforms on public safety in Los Angeles County. namely
those enacted under Propositions 47 and 57 and Assembly Bill 109. Undercutting
recent reforms, instead of addressing decades-old dysfunctional and imbalanced
approaches to safety, is a missed opportunity.

Public safety challenges in Los Angeles are real and must be addressed. However,
the question is not what's wrong with reforms attempting to correct problems,
but what the county can do to effectively effectuate recent reforms - and go
even farther.

Looking beyond tradition, officials will find that community leaders and crime
experts alike have known for many years what works. Powerful and effective
programs like the Watts Gang Task Force, where law enforcement and community
street intervention teams work together to address violence at the neighborhood
level; or the Community Collaborative Court in Compton that combines case
management with treatment and court supervision; or The Long Beach Trauma
Recovery Center that's providing wrap around support for crime victims and their
families, reducing crime and empowering communities in the process.

Scaling these types of programs, as well as investing in the county's substance
abuse and mental health treatment infrastructure, and transitional housing and
job training for people exiting the justice system are all strategies that need
immediate attention. The need to scale what works and fill gaps in the community
infrastructure has been apparent for many years.

In addition to asking a different set of questions, local officials should seek
to bring together a broader set of stakeholders. While law enforcement is key,
as the best leaders in law enforcement often say, law enforcement alone cannot
solve public safety problems. Community leaders, crime survivors, formerly
incarcerated people, and leaders in public health, substance abuse recovery and
economic development must be elevated and enrolled if we are serious about
solutions.

When the Board of Supervisors meets today, instead of seeking to return to the
failed policies of the past, a more productive conversation would be focused on
how to effectuate the reforms that have already been adopted, and how to finally
invest in a crime prevention and treatment infrastructure that can create the
safe and healthy communities we all desire.

Lenore Anderson is executive director of Californians for Safety and Justice, a
nonprofit organization based in Oakland.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Look forward, not back, on criminal justice reforms

BYLINE: Lenore Anderson

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, TDB, LPT, SGVN, IDB. No column sig.

FULL TEXT

Today, Californians of pretty much all walks of life agree: The state's criminal
justice system has been broken for decades. For at least 20 years, it was
commonplace for lawmakers to churn out "tough" crime policy that drove prison
populations and budgets up and starved investments in crime prevention and
rehabilitation. Excessive imprisonment and prison spending delivered high
recidivism rates and destabilized communities far more than they delivered any
public safety benefit.

Taxpayers now spend billions on a behemoth set of criminal justice bureaucracies
that are largely ill-equipped to effectively stop crime cycles or prevent crime
in the first place.

Voters are well aware of this structural problem, and overwhelming majorities
approved various recent justice reforms to begin changing course. There is still
a long way to go.

Despite strong data on what works better than incarceration-first policies -
community outreach and law enforcement partnerships; risk-based graduated
sanctions; supervised probation combined with substance abuse treatment;
behavioral health courts; and more - most justice systems remain stuck in the
dysfunctional practices of the past.

There is perhaps no greater responsibility of local government than protecting
public safety. Yet, too often, public officials are quick to respond to public
safety problems by questioning justice reforms, instead of completing what those
reforms started: the long-overdue task of replacing the broken justice system
with evidenced-based community safety solutions.

The recent proposal from Los Angeles County Supervisors Kathryn Barger and
Janice Hahn is familiar in that regard. Today, the Board of Supervisors will
deliberate on their proposal to establish a commission tasked with examining the
impacts of recent justice reforms on public safety in Los Angeles County. namely
those enacted under Propositions 47 and 57 and Assembly Bill 109. Undercutting
recent reforms, instead of addressing decades-old dysfunctional and imbalanced
approaches to safety, is a missed opportunity.

Public safety challenges in Los Angeles are real and must be addressed. However,
the question is not what's wrong with reforms attempting to correct problems,
but what the county can do to effectively effectuate recent reforms - and go
even farther.

Looking beyond tradition, officials will find that community leaders and crime
experts alike have known for many years what works. Powerful and effective
programs like the Watts Gang Task Force, where law enforcement and community
street intervention teams work together to address violence at the neighborhood
level; or the Community Collaborative Court in Compton that combines case
management with treatment and court supervision; or The Long Beach Trauma
Recovery Center that's providing wrap around support for crime victims and their
families, reducing crime and empowering communities in the process.

Scaling these types of programs, as well as investing in the county's substance
abuse and mental health treatment infrastructure, and transitional housing and
job training for people exiting the justice system are all strategies that need
immediate attention. The need to scale what works and fill gaps in the community
infrastructure has been apparent for many years.

In addition to asking a different set of questions, local officials should seek
to bring together a broader set of stakeholders. While law enforcement is key,
as the best leaders in law enforcement often say, law enforcement alone cannot
solve public safety problems. Community leaders, crime survivors, formerly
incarcerated people, and leaders in public health, substance abuse recovery and
economic development must be elevated and enrolled if we are serious about
solutions.

When the Board of Supervisors meets today, instead of seeking to return to the
failed policies of the past, a more productive conversation would be focused on
how to effectuate the reforms that have already been adopted, and how to finally
invest in a crime prevention and treatment infrastructure that can create the
safe and healthy communities we all desire.

Lenore Anderson is executive director of Californians for Safety and Justice, a
nonprofit organization based in Oakland.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            November 20, 2017 Monday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

LAPD probing 22 Hollywood crimes

BYLINE: Reuven Blau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 118 words


THE Los Angeles Police Department is probing 22 alleged sex crimes tied to
Hollywood and the entertainment industry, according to a new report.

The sexual misconduct allegations against Harvey Weinstein inspired a host of
victims to come forward and file complaints, ABC News reported Sunday.

The LAPD has also recorded 28 "courtesy reports" detailing incidents of criminal
misbehavior that occurred outside the department's jurisdiction, a high-level
police source told ABC.

Those complaints have all been forwarded to the appropriate departments.

The LAPD has opened an investigation into allegations against Weinstein, which
were first detailed in October by multiple women. Weinstein denies any criminal
behavior.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Daily News, L.P.


                              323 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                            November 24, 2017 Friday

Los Angeles: 2 must-reads that explore the citys myth and meaning

BYLINE: Martha Ross

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: "L.A. Noir: The Struggle for the Soul of America's Most Seductive
City" and "Mildred Pierce" capture soul of L.A.


So many of Americas greatest writers  Raymond Chandler, F. Scott Fitzgerald,
Nathanael West, Joan Didion, among them  have pondered the meaning and myth of
Los Angeles. While its impossible to name all the great books about L.A., here
are two that offer a sense of why Americas second largest city is what it is and
why we remain fascinated.

1 L.A. Noir: The Struggle for the Soul of Americas Most Seductive City, by John
Buntin (Broadway Books, 2010):

Long before Los Angeles embraced its role as one of Americas great melting pots,
its leaders shamefully sold the city as the white spot of America, a land of
sunshine, orange groves, movie stars and wholesome (i.e., white) Midwestern
values. But the film and oil industries explosion in the early 20th century also
transformed L.A. into a Wild West boomtown, teeming with crime, vice and
corruption. This nonfiction book contrasts the two men who represented the
battle for the citys soul by the mid-20th century: Straight arrow police chief
William H. Parker and notorious gangster Mickey Cohen.

2 Mildred Pierce by James M. Cain (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard, reissue edition
1989):

People may be most familiar with this title from the classic 1945 Warner Bros.
melodrama starring Joan Crawford in her most iconic role. They may also know
Cain as the author of hard-boiled L.A.-based crime masterpieces Double Indemnity
and The Postman Always Rings Twice. In this novel, Cain focuses on an
entrepreneurial-minded housewife who is determined to maintain her familys
standard of living during the Great Depression. By bringing us into Mildreds
suburban Glendale world, as her spoiled daughter Veda aspires to a Pasadena
mansion, Cain offers a vivid portrait of L.A. class distinctions and American
ideas of success that persist today.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Task Force Investigation Targets Leadership of MS-13, including
Former Top 'Shot-Caller' of L.A. Faction, a Dozen 'Shot-Callers' who Supervised
Cliques and Three Members Accused of Murder

LENGTH: 1477  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: US Department of Justice has issued the following news release:
    Capping a nearly three-year investigation, federal, state and local law
enforcement authorities this morning took into custody a total of 21 members and
associates of Mara Salvatrucha, a transnational criminal street gang commonly
called MS-13 that was formed in Los Angeles about 30 years ago.            Those
arrested today by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs (LAMTFVG) are among 44 defendants who face federal charges, including the
former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior leaders of the gang,
who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles region. These dozen
high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto leadership council for the gang
- a committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the
top role in the wake of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement.            A
racketeering indictment charges three MS-13 members for murders they committed
in connection with the gang's activities.

These murders were solved as a result of the LAMTFVG investigation and its
partnership with LAPD Olympic Division Homicide detectives.            Carlos
Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, also known as "Little Boy," 23, faces a violent crime in
aid of racketeering (VICAR) murder charge for allegedly fatally shooting an
innocent bystander who was confronted on August 15, 2015 inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue. A friend of the murder victim was also stabbed during the attack.
Two other MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, also known as
"Blacky," 39, and Joffri Molina, also known as "Espia," 24 - are also charged
with VICAR murder. Rivas is accused of murdering a man on August 30, 2015 at a
strip mall in Pacoima. Molina is accused of murdering a man on September 27,
2015 on a street in North Hollywood.            Lopez, Rivas and Molina are
eligible for the death penalty if found guilty of the murder offenses.
Prosecutors will decide whether to seek the death penalty at a later date.
"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown. "With
thousands of members here in the Southland, the gang's power is widespread -
power which it maintains with severe acts of violence. Today's charges and
arrests, however, will deal a critical blow to the top leadership of this
criminal organization and will significantly improve safety in neighborhoods
across this region."            "This case has targeted the leadership and most
violent actors of the MS-13 street gang in Los Angeles, as well as MS-13's links
to the Mexican Mafia," said Deirdre Fike, the Assistant Director in Charge of
the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office. "This operation will have a significant
impact on this violent gang and their overall ability to maintain control over
law-abiding citizens."            "This operation is a powerful example of the
significant impact partnerships play in law enforcement," said Los Angeles
Police Chief Charlie Beck. "The successful arrest of these individuals was only
possible because a wide range of agencies collaborated with each other, based on
information gleaned from countless investigation hours and tips provided by
people who could trust our police officers, regardless of their immigration
status."            At the center of today's takedown is a 41-count racketeering
indictment that charges 34 members and associates of MS-13. The indictment,
which alleges violations of the federal Racketeer Influence and Corrupt
Organizations (RICO) Act, outlines the gang's organizational structure, its
affiliation with the Mexican Mafia prison gang, and its strict set of rules and
punishment. The 127-page indictment describes how MS-13 uses violence and
intimidation in an effort to maintain its power and control narcotics
trafficking.            The lead defendant in the RICO indictment is Jose
Balmore Romero, also known as "Porky," 43, who in 2013 and 2014 was the overall
shot-caller for MS-13 Los Angeles. The indictment alleges that, as the leader of
the gang, Balmore oversaw MS-13's drug trafficking activities, coordinated the
collection of extortionate "taxes" and "rent," some of which was then
distributed to Mexican Mafia members who oversaw MS-13. Balmore also allegedly
conducted and attended gang meetings, where he disseminated orders, including
authorizing the "jumping in" of new members and the assault of members who were
in bad standing. Balmore has been in local custody since February 2015, when the
LAMTFVG arrested him for ordering a gang-related murder.            In addition
to narcotics trafficking and violent crimes, members of MS-13 also allegedly
engaged in a wide range of criminal conduct that includes the extortion of
street-level drug dealers and innocent business owners who were threatened with
death if they did not make payments to the gang. The gang also operates illegal
after-hours clubs where it generates profits from gambling and illegal narcotics
and alcohol sales.            "This gang uses coercion and intimidation while
inflicting horrific violence in the neighborhoods where they operate," said ATF
Los Angeles Field Division Special Agent in Charge Eric Harden. "Today is a
great win for justice and a heavy message to the community. Law enforcement will
combine their resources and all our areas of expertise to cripple these
organizations. We will win, they will lose."            In addition to the
34-defendant RICO indictment, prosecutors have filed a drug-trafficking
indictment against five other gang members who were associated with the Mexican
Mafia. These defendants are charged with conspiracy to distribute controlled
substances, as well as various narcotics and firearms offenses.            Two
other MS-13 members have also been charged separately with narcotics and
firearms offenses.            One defendant charged in this sweep is named in a
case filed under seal because he was a juvenile at the time of the alleged
offenses.            Prosecutors this morning are filing criminal complaints in
federal court against two additional defendants who were arrested this morning,
one of whom is a shot-caller of an MS-13 clique who is currently on supervised
release after being convicted in a prior racketeering case.            "The
relationship between drugs, violent crimes, and street gangs isn't new to DEA -
the illicit drug market serves as the life-blood of street gang operations,"
said DEA Special Agent in Charge David J. Downing. "The DEA and Southern
California Drug Task Force are committed to disrupting the flow of drugs into
our communities and mitigating the associated violence these gangs perpetuate."
During this morning's operation, authorities arrested a total of 21 federal
defendants. Out of the 44 defendants facing federal charges, 20 were already in
custody and three are considered to be fugitives.            An indictment or
criminal complaint contains allegations that a defendant has committed a crime.
Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty in
court.            Those taken into custody today are expected to be arraigned on
the charges against them this afternoon in United States District Court. The
defendants who are currently in custody will be brought into federal court to
face the charges at a later date.            The investigation into MS-13 was
conducted by the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent Gangs and was
led by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Los Angeles Police
Department.            The LAMTFVG includes personnel from the Drug Enforcement
Administration's Southern California Drug Task Force pursuant to the High
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives; the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department; U.S.
Customs and Border Protection; and the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the United States
Bureau of Prisons participated in the investigation.            Other agencies
provided substantial assistance during the investigation, including the Los
Angeles Regional Criminal Information Clearinghouse (LA CLEAR), the Los Angeles
City Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles County Probation Department, and the Los
Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services.            The
prosecution of the RICO case and the related federal cases is being handled by
Assistant United States Attorneys Joanna Curtis and Jeff Chemerinsky of the
Violent and Organized Crime Section.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            February 24, 2017 Friday

Drug counselor gets 25 to life for DUI crash that killed pedestrian

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 761 words

ABSTRACT

Torrance woman gets 25 to life in plea deal for killing Torrance man

FULL TEXT

A substance abuse counselor set to beretried for murderfor hitting a Torrance
man and driving with his body embedded in her windshield pleaded no contest
Thursday and was immediately sentenced to 25 years to life in prison.

Sherri Lynn Wilkins, 55, who was found guilty in 2014 andsentenced to 55 years
to lifein prison, but whose conviction was overturned by an appellate court,
entered her plea to the same charges in Los Angeles Superior Court, where her
second trial was set to begin.

Judge Henry Hall imposed the new sentence for the Nov. 24, 2012, crash
thatkilled 31-year-old Phillip Morenoon Torrance

Boulevard east of Crenshaw Boulevard. Moreno was struck as he crossed the street
on his way home from a bar.

Wilkins drove more than two miles with the dying man in her windshield until
stunned motorists surrounded her car and stopped her.

Prosecutors charged her with one count each of second-degree murder, driving
under the influence causing injury, driving with a 0.08 percent blood-alcohol
content causing injury, and leaving the scene of an accident.

Criminal past focus of appeal

Following an emotional trial, jurors convicted her and she was sentenced. But a
three-justice panel from California's 2nd District Court of Appeal overturned
the conviction on all but the count that she fled the scene.

In its February 2016 ruling, the appellate panel found that the admission of
Wilkins' prior record during the case prejudiced jurors against her. The
justices noted that the Los Angeles Superior Court jury that heard the case
against Wilkins "knew defendant had a history of drug addiction and that she had
committed serious crimes in the past.''

But the admission of her rap sheet "added to the picture a suggestion that
defendant had a history of unpunished crimes, a propensity for crime, and it
counteracted her attempts to portray herself as having turned her life around
until the charged crime,'' the justices found.

The ruling allowed prosecutors to retry Wilkins on the murder and DUI charges,
with the justices finding that "there was substantial evidence to support a
finding that defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing Moreno's
death.''

Evidence called 'overwhelming'

In allowing Wilkins' conviction to stand on the charge that she left the scene
of an accident, the appellate court panel found that "the evidence was
overwhelming and undisputed that defendant was involved in a vehicle accident;
the accident caused the death of Moreno; defendant knew she had been involved in
an accident that injured another person; and she willfully failed to immediately
stop at the scene of the accident and failed to provide reasonable assistance to
Moreno."

In Wilkins' first trial, Deputy District Attorney Saman Ahmadpour told jurors
during his closing argument that the Torrance woman failed to immediately stop
or check on Moreno's welfare or to notify authorities what had happened and
swerved her car to try to "shake him off."

Wilkins - employed at the time as a substance abuse counselor - eventually
stopped her Mitsubishi Eclipse at Crenshaw Boulevard and 182nd Street and smoked
a cigarette while bystanders tried to help the victim, the prosecutor told
jurors.

Moreno died later at County Harbor-UCLA Medical Center.

Case was 'emotionally charged'

After the February 2014 verdict, defense attorney Nan Whitfield said that she
believed the case was "so emotionally charged" that jurors were unable to fairly
evaluate the evidence against Wilkins. She maintained that Wilkins was not drunk
at the time of the collision.

Whitfield contended the alcohol her client drank - described by Wilkins as three
vodka shots with beer and tomato juice - just before getting behind the wheel
had not yet gotten into her system or impaired her driving ability.

She had a blood-alcohol level of 0.15 percent - nearly twice the legal limit of
0.08 percent - about 90 minutes after the crash.

Wilkins testified during her trial, telling jurors that it seemed like the man
"came from the sky." She said it took her awhile to figure out there was a body
on her vehicle's hood.

"It was very shocking and very strange. I didn't know what was going on," she
testified, noting that she was scared and "didn't think it was real" as she
continued to drive with Moreno embedded in her car's windshield.

Speaking directly to the victims' family members and friends shortly before she
was sentenced in 2014, Wilkins called what happened "a tragedy" and said she was
sorry for their pain.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            February 20, 2017 Monday

17 years to caught murder escapee

LENGTH: 388  words


38 years Cambero Jr., has been caught for two hate crime after 17 years.
Authorities informed that it was the case where civil rights criminal charges
were filed against members of a street gang.

He was the ex member of the Avenues street gang and police arrested him in Baja,
Mexico, where he was living under a false name, and moved to U.S. law
enforcement agents on Feb. 3.

Cambero was arraigned Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles on federal
hate crimes charges related to the racially motivated murders of two black men
in Highland Park, a neighborhood in northeast Los Angeles.

Despite this defendants efforts to avoid prosecution over the course of many
years, his appearance in court today demonstrates that law enforcement and my
office will be tenacious in pursuing justice against such criminal conduct,
Eileen M. Decker, the U.S. attorney for the Central District of California,
said.

Kenneth Kurry Wilson, 38, was fatally shot in Highland Park on April 18, 1999.
Cambero is one of two triggermen accused in that homicide. ]

Cambero and other members of the Avenues street gang also were accused of
fatally shooting Christopher Bowser on Dec. 11, 2000, while he waited for a bus
in Highland Park.

Cambero and other gang members were indicted in 2004. The other defendants were
apprehended and subsequently convicted. They each were sentenced in 2006 and
2007 to life in federal prison without parole, while Cambero became a fugitive
and fled the United States.

The criminal civil rights conspiracy charge alleges that Cambero participated in
a 1997 attack on men playing basketball in a park in Los Angeles.

The hate related crime spree by the gang continued, authorities say, when
several members ambushed a black man in 1998 and struck him in the head with a
metal object and attacked another black man in a park in 1999.

The gang members also shouted racial slurs at a black woman in a supermarket and
a black man walking down a street in 1999, the indictment alleges.

The U.S. attorney said that the incident occurred for the skin colour as the
gang wanted to get rid of black neighbour of African Americans.

The attorney also said that such terrible conduct had not place in U.S and and
the Department of Justice is going to stand persistently against hate crimes
like those charged. 2017 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2017 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
                DONOR: Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles


                          LAST UPDATED: June 27, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 1,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
TAXCODE:  95-3943493
URL:  http://www.hbcfl.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90010
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017


                              328 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
                  DONOR: University of California, Los Angeles


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,200 - 2,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  University of California, Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              329 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
                  DONOR: Bar Association of Los Angeles County


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,200 - 2,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bar Association of Los Angeles County
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              330 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
               DONOR: Library Foundation of Los Angeles ('13 '14)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 25,000 - 49,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Library Foundation of Los Angeles ('13 '14)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              331 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
                  DONOR: University of California, Los Angeles


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,200 - 2,499

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  University of California, Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Officials OK $3M migrant aid fund;
Deportations could be fought, but crimes make many ineligible

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words

ABSTRACT

LA County Board of Supervisors approves $3 million for LA Justice Fund, to
assist undocumented immigrants.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County will drop $3 million into a legal defense fund to help
undocumented immigrants and others facing deportation after the Board of
Supervisors voted 4 to 1 Tuesday to approve the allocation.

The vote means the LA Justice Fund,first proposed in Decemberby Los Angeles city
and county officials in response to President Donald Trump's hard stance on
immigrants in the country illegally, is closer to its $10 million goal.

About two dozen speakers from various organizations such as the NAACP of Pomona,
Asian Ameri

cans Advancing Justice-LA and the Guadalupe Homeless Project spoke in favor of
the fund Tuesday and thanked the board for the money.

"The county's $3 million contribution will give immigrants facing deportation a
fighting chance that they did not have before," said Eric Hubbard, development
director of Jovenes Inc., which provides homeless youth in Los Angeles with
shelter and housing.

But some were disappointed that the funds did not go far enough. Legal
representation would not be provided to people who have been convicted of, or
who are currently appealing a conviction for a violent felony. That includes
murder, rape, inflicting bodily harm, sexual assault, carjacking, extortion and
threats to victims or witnesses, and other crimes.

"We are disappointed that the LA Justice Fund does not address all the legal
needs of all Angelenos," said Martin Garcia, a member of LA Voice, a community
group that aims to improve the quality of life in L.A.

Those who do qualify would be people with close ties to Los Angeles County whose
family members are U.S. citizens, or who are lawful permanent individuals with
community ties, or those who are deferred action for childhood arrivals or DACA
recipients. Also qualifying are those who are heads of a household with one or
more dependent family members, unaccompanied childrenand veterans.

Supervisor Hilda Solis said the goal is to help people in need navigate a tricky
legal process.

"Today, the board took a significant step to create a safety net for immigrants,
one that is pro-family, pro-economic growth and stability, and pro-civil and
human rights," Solis said in a statement. "The LA Justice Fund will be able to
help those individuals who have simply been trying to make a better life for
themselves and their families."

It takes $5,000 to fund an immigration case, according to the Boston Immigrant
Justice Initiative, Solis said in a joint statement with Supervisor Janice Hahn.

Supervisor Sheila Kuehl, who also voted to approve allocating the money, said
she understood the disappointment expressed by some community leaders. Under the
Trump administration, she added, the federal government doesn't distinguish
between serious crimes and people "who steal popcorn at a movie theater."

"I wish there were a way not to exclude," Kuehl said of those who have crimes in
their past. "So many people have paid their dues to society, have paid  the
price and served their time. So I wish there was a way to at least look at their
lives."

Supervisor Kathryn Barger cast the lone dissenting vote, saying that the
deportations are occurring because of a broken immigration system.

"It is the federal government's responsibility to support states and counties in
their efforts to address the costs of illegal immigration," she said."County
taxpayers should not be forced to bear the cost to provide free legal
representation for those facing deportation."

One anti-immigration group, We the People Rising, said in a statement the county
should use the funds to help American citizens.

"This $3 million allotment should be expended to help homeless American
families, our veterans, disabled American citizens and the unemployed, who are
suffering by the thousands throughout the county," said Robin Hvidston,
executive director of the group.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Officials OK $3M migrant aid fund;
Deportations could be fought, but crimes make many ineligible

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 849 words

ABSTRACT

LA County Board of Supervisors approves $3 million for LA Justice Fund, to
assist undocumented immigrants.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County will drop $3 million into a legal defense fund to help
undocumented immigrants and others facing deportation after the Board of
Supervisors voted 4 to 1 Tuesday to approve the allocation.

The vote means the LA Justice Fund,first proposed in Decemberby Los Angeles city
and county officials in response to President Donald Trump's hard stance on
immigrants in the country illegally, is closer to its $10 million goal.

About two dozen speakers from various organizations such as the NAACP of Pomona,
Asian Ameri

cans Advancing Justice-LA and the Guadalupe Homeless Project spoke in favor of
the fund Tuesday and thanked the board for the money.

"The county's $3 million contribution will give immigrants facing deportation a
fighting chance that they did not have before," said Eric Hubbard, development
director of Jovenes Inc., which provides homeless youth in Los Angeles with
shelter and housing.

But some were disappointed that the funds did not go far enough. Legal
representation would not be provided to people who have been convicted of, or
who are currently appealing a conviction for a violent felony. That includes
murder, rape, inflicting bodily harm, sexual assault, carjacking, extortion and
threats to victims or witnesses, and other crimes.

"We are disappointed that the LA Justice Fund does not address all the legal
needs of all Angelenos," said Martin Garcia, a member of LA Voice, a community
group that aims to improve the quality of life in L.A.

Those who do qualify would be people with close ties to Los Angeles County whose
family members are U.S. citizens, or who are lawful permanent individuals with
community ties, or those who are deferred action for childhood arrivals or DACA
recipients. Also qualifying are those who are heads of a household with one or
more dependent family members, unaccompanied childrenand veterans. Victims of
domestic violence or human trafficking also will be considered, according to the
agreement.

Supervisor Hilda Solis said the goal is to help people in need navigate a tricky
legal process.

"Today, the board took a significant step to create a safety net for immigrants,
one that is pro-family, pro-economic growth and stability, and pro-civil and
human rights," Solis said in a statement. "The LA Justice Fund will be able to
help those individuals who have simply been trying to make a better life for
themselves and their families."

It takes $5,000 to fund an immigration case, according to the Boston Immigrant
Justice Initiative, Solis said in a joint statement with Supervisor Janice Hahn.

About 7,000 Los Angeles County residents face removal proceedings without a
lawyer each year, they added.

Supervisor Sheila Kuehl, who also voted to approve allocating the money, said
she understood the disappointment expressed by some community leaders. Under the
Trump administration, she added, the federal government doesn't distinguish
between serious crimes and people "who steal popcorn at a movie theater."

"I wish there were a way not to exclude," Kuehl said of those who have crimes in
their past. "So many people have paid their dues to society, have paid  the
price and served their time. So I wish there was a way to at least look at their
lives."

Supervisor Kathryn Barger cast the lone dissenting vote, saying that the
deportations are occurring because of a broken immigration system.

"It is the federal government's responsibility to support states and counties in
their efforts to address the costs of illegal immigration," she said."County
taxpayers should not be forced to bear the cost to provide free legal
representation for those facing deportation."

One anti-immigration group, We the People Rising, said in a statement the county
should use the funds to help American citizens.

"This $3 million allotment should be expended to help homeless American
families, our veterans, disabled American citizens and the unemployed, who are
suffering by the thousands throughout the county," said Robin Hvidston,
executive director of the group.

The board's approval means $1 million will be contributed to the fund in the
upcoming fiscal year, and another $2 million in the 2018-2019 fiscal year. Los
Angeles city and county leaders plan to contribute a total of $5 million to the
proposed $10 million fund, with local nonprofit organizations providing the
rest. So far, $2.2 million from philanthropic and nonprofit organizations has
been collected for the L.A. Justice Fund, which is overseen by the California
Community Foundation.

At Los Angeles City Hall,the Budget and Finance Committeeadvanced a proposal
this week for the city's $2 million portion of the LA Justice Fund, which also
would leave out those with violent felony convictions, as well as immigrants who
have committed crimes related to human trafficking, child abuse, domestic
violence and pimping. The full 15-member City Council is expected to take up the
issue on Friday.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 17, 2017 Tuesday

Dockworker gets 41 months in prison for bilking union

BYLINE: staff reports

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 313 words


A San Pedro man was sentenced to 41 months in federal prison for his role in a
scheme in which two medical clinics fraudulently billed more than $250,000 to
the International Longshore and Warehouse Union Local 13's health care plan,
prosecutors said Monday.

David Gomez, 53, was sentenced Jan. 9 following his October conviction in U.S.
District Court in Los Angeles of 20 counts of mail fraud. He also was ordered to
pay restitution of $201,000.

Gomez was a member of the ILWU, which represents dockworkers at the ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach. Members of the union receive their health care benefits
through the ILWU-Pacific Maritime Association Welfare Plan.

Prosecutors said Gomez and Sergio Amador, who was previously convicted, opened
clinics called Port Medical in Long Beach and San Pedro, and offered medical and
chiropractic care.

According to evidence at trial, Port Medical falsified records to falsely show
that ILWU members and their dependents, including children as young as 5, had
received repeated chiropractic services that they had not. ILWU members were
asked to sign their names on multiple sign-in stickers that were used to create
fake chart entries, or their names were simply forged.

Prosecutors also presented evidence that showed massage therapists were
instructed how to write chart entries to maximize billing and make services
appear to be medically necessary.

Prosecutors said Gomez and Amador were paid more than $228,000.

"This defendant managed a fraudulent scheme that targeted a program designed to
provide benefits to Gomez's fellow union members," U.S. Attorney Eileen Decker.
"He was driven by his personal greed, and his criminal conduct undermined the
union's intention to bring medical benefits to other union members and their
families."

Amador pleaded guilty last year to one count of mail fraud and is scheduled to
be sentenced April 6.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 17, 2017 Tuesday

Dockworker gets 41 months in prison for bilking union

BYLINE: staff reports

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 313 words


A San Pedro man was sentenced to 41 months in federal prison for his role in a
scheme in which two medical clinics fraudulently billed more than $250,000 to
the International Longshore and Warehouse Union Local 13's health care plan,
prosecutors said Monday.

David Gomez, 53, was sentenced Jan. 9 following his October conviction in U.S.
District Court in Los Angeles of 20 counts of mail fraud. He also was ordered to
pay restitution of $201,000.

Gomez was a member of the ILWU, which represents dockworkers at the ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach. Members of the union receive their health care benefits
through the ILWU-Pacific Maritime Association Welfare Plan.

Prosecutors said Gomez and Sergio Amador, who was previously convicted, opened
clinics called Port Medical in Long Beach and San Pedro, and offered medical and
chiropractic care.

According to evidence at trial, Port Medical falsified records to falsely show
that ILWU members and their dependents, including children as young as 5, had
received repeated chiropractic services that they had not. ILWU members were
asked to sign their names on multiple sign-in stickers that were used to create
fake chart entries, or their names were simply forged.

Prosecutors also presented evidence that showed massage therapists were
instructed how to write chart entries to maximize billing and make services
appear to be medically necessary.

Prosecutors said Gomez and Amador were paid more than $228,000.

"This defendant managed a fraudulent scheme that targeted a program designed to
provide benefits to Gomez's fellow union members," U.S. Attorney Eileen Decker.
"He was driven by his personal greed, and his criminal conduct undermined the
union's intention to bring medical benefits to other union members and their
families."

Amador pleaded guilty last year to one count of mail fraud and is scheduled to
be sentenced April 6.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             August 27, 2017 Sunday

Get help or go to jail?;
Pilot program will allow some charged with low-level drug crimes and
prostitution to receive social services

BYLINE: Valerie Osier; Special to the Press-Telegram

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 773 words


Low-level drug and prostitution offenders in North Long Beach and nearby
communities may soon get help instead of prosecution when a new pilot program
begins in September.  The Los Angeles County Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion
Program, or LEAD, will divert some offenders to social services like
rehabilitation, counseling and stable housing in an effort to reduce crime.

"For the most part, this program diverts low-grade offenders to services," Long
Beach City Prosecutor Doug Haubert said. "Everyone agrees that if these services
are successful then this is a program that will reduce crime and improve public
safety in the communities affected."The program is funded by a $5.9 million
state grant, of which Long Beach has so far received about $700,000. Proponents
expect about 300 people will receive help over the 26-month pilot.

Haubert said this represents a rare example of different law enforcement
agencies collaborating closely to solve a problem: 17 agencies and departments
in Los Angeles County are partnering, including several police departments, the
District Attorney's office, the Office of Diversion and Reentry and the Office
of the Public Defender.

A team from Cal State Long Beach will also be evaluating the county program over
the two years it will be running. Long Beach was included in the grant because
it already had a similar diversion program for women detained for prostitution.
The Directed Services Program has shown to be effective in helping women break
away from the influence of pimps and get out of prostitution, officials said.
Long Beach has "a pretty deep understanding of what it actually takes to support
people in this population because of their experience," said Shoshanna Scholar,
who will be overseeing the LEAD program in Los Angeles county.

The idea for the county program originated in Seattle in 2011 as a result of the
city not having enough money to continue prosecuting low-level drug offenders
during the 2008 recession. There was also contention about the extreme racial
disparity in low-level drug arrests - 60 percent of those arrested for low-level
drug possession or sales were black in a city that only had an 8 percent black
population, according to Kris Nyrop, who was part of the group that started
LEAD.

"[We said] what if we could take what is almost uniformly a bad experience -
getting arrested and going to jail - and change it into something that was
potentially positive for the individual? And what if that actually resulted in
better outcomes for the community? And what if it was cheaper?" said Nyrop, who
is now the National Director of the LEAD National Support Bureau.  The program
proved to be effective in reducing criminal recidivism rates in a study
conducted by an independent team of evaluators from the University of
Washington. The results surprised even the creators of the program: people who
were diverted were 58 percent less likely to be arrested on a new charge, have
fewer long-term felony charges, spend 39 fewer days in jail and are 87 percent
less likely to be incarcerated later. Costs associated with arrests and
prosecution were also reduced.

Since 2011, other LEAD and LEAD-like programs have started and continue to
develop all over the US. San Francisco also received a $5.9 million grant from
the state to start a pilot LEAD program.

The program here will run similar to the one in Seattle, with some differences
based on state laws and other factors.  Before booking, offenders who meet the
criteria for the program will be referred by police officers. The eligible
individuals can decide if they want to participate or be booked and prosecuted.
If they decide to participate, they will be assigned a case manager who does a
brief assessment and asks them what their immediate needs are.

Participants can also come through the "social contact door," meaning they can
be referred by someone in the community. This was added because in Seattle,
police officers were finding that people were willing to implicate themselves in
drug offenses in order to get the help they needed.

Officials said they don't expect an overnight change in those who are diverted.
Recovery is usually a long process and they expect relapses, but it does not
automatically kick them out of the program.

"A lot of people have very unrealistic expectations about 'fixing people' and
they think that you ought to be able to 'fix people' quickly," Nyrop said.

"The reality is that if you've been homeless for 20-something years and you have
mental health issues and you have chemical dependency or substance use issues,
there is not going to be an easy or quick solution."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 6, 2017 Tuesday

Far left extremism could lead to more civil conflicts, CSUSB hate crime study
indicates

LENGTH: 165  words

DATELINE: New York



San Bernardino: California State University, San Bernardino has issued the
following news release:


Violent clashes and arrests as a result of political intolerance increased in
2016 on California college campuses and at pro-Trump rallies, as did far-left
extremism that could lead to more civil conflicts was the conclusion of a report
authored by Cal State San Bernardino researchers and presented last week to Los
Angeles County officials.


Frayed race relations, demographic changes and political divisions along with
distrust in institutions and the democratic process all contributed to the rise
of hate crimes and extremism, said Brian Levin, director of the Center for the
Study of Hate and Extremism and professor at CSUSB who wrote the report. He
presented it in West Hollywood during a quarterly meeting of Los Angeles
County's Network Against Hate Crime.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              May 4, 2017 Thursday

Former Alemany teacher arrested;
Police seek more possible victims of instructor accused of having sex with
underage students

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 320 words

ABSTRACT

Short story about a teacher who sexually assaulted students at Bishop Alemany
school.

FULL TEXT

A former physics teacher from Bishop Alemany High School who was wanted for
allegedly having sex with two underage students has turned himself in, but
police said Wednesday they continue to look for possible victims.

Detectives with the Los Angeles Police Department's Mission station arrested
William Maclyn Murphy Eick, 32, of Sun Valley, who taught at the Mission Hills
school between 2009 and 2016.

"He met his victims/students in his capacity as a teacher and took advantage of
his position to gain their trust," according to an LAPD statement.

Eick came into the Mission station with his attorney on Tuesday and was released
after he posted bail, Detective Nicole Kittle said.

He faces charges of having unlawful sex with a minor. A court date was not
immediately available.


In a letter sent to parents, Bishop Alemany principal David Chambers said the
private Catholic school became aware of the incident when a former student
reported it to them last fall. The student said the incident concerned herself
and another former student back in 2012-2014.

"We immediately reported the matter to the LAPD and suspended Mr. Eick from all
teaching and other activities related to Bishop Alemany," Chambers wrote. "Mr.
Eick resigned from his position in October, 2016. Bishop Alemany and the
Archdiocese of Los Angeles have continued to cooperate fully with the LAPD in
the investigation."

Detectives are asking for the public's assistance in locating possible
additional victims.

Anyone with information is asked to call detectives with the LAPD's Mission Area
Sex Crimes Unit, at (818) 838-9969, or 1-877-527-3247 during weekends and
evening hours. Anyone wishing to remain anonymous can call the L.A. Regional
Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477 or lacrimestoppers.org.

Staff writer Dana Bartholomew contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday

garcetti winning, measure s failing;
Mayor: He cruises to re-election; ICE foes crash party

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words


Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti cruised to an easy re-election victory Tuesday
with an ocean of votes separating him and his 10 challengers in early returns.

Garcetti had 55,518 or 80.93 percent of the votes as of 10:15 p.m., with 6
percent of the vote counted according to the Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk's Office. Mitchell Schwartz was a distant second
with 5,330, or 7.77 percent.

Garcetti raised more money than the other candidates by a formidable margin,
raking in more than $3.8 million and far outstripping the second best-funded
candidate, Schwartz, who had just over $456,000 to work with.

At his election night party inside the Laborers' Local 300 headquarters in
Pico-Union, Garcetti and his wife, Amy Elaine Wakeland, appeared before a
cheering crowd to the beat of the Justin Timberlake hit "Can't Stop the Feeling"
to give his victory speech. Wakeland introduced Garcetti, calling him "your
mayor of Los Angeles," but a few sentences into his remarks, the soundtrack
changed to shouting as protesters broke out in chants "ICE out of L.A.!" from
among the crowd of partygoers.

The protesters appeared to be part of a contingent that had been stationed
outside the gathering voicing demands to have L.A. be declared a "sanctuary
city," a term used for cities that work to protect undocumented immigrants from
being deported.

Garcetti was criticized for refusing to use the words "sanctuary city" to
describe Los Angeles, which was never officially declared one.

Garcetti eventually got back to the stage, thanked his volunteers and closed his
remarks by encouraging Angelenos to "exercise the voice that you have - protest,
speak out, crash a campaign party."

"There are no challenges we cannot face and no problem we cannot solve,"
Garcetti said.

After leading a quick chant of "S[#xfffd] se puede!" Garcetti declared "Let's
get back to work tomorrow!"

Several protesters were escorted out at different points throughout his speech.

Garcetti successfully fended off attacks from challengers who described his
first term as "underwhelming," saying the city had not fared well under his
leadership. They cited an increase in homelessness, annual crime rates inching
up, the high cost of living in Los Angeles and many city services still
stretched thin.

Political strategist Schwartz, seen as Garcetti's strongest challenger, said
last week that voters should not accept the "status quo."

"I want them to know there is a choice out there," Schwartz said.

Despite the criticisms, Garcetti largely ignored his opponents, mostly by not
attending any debates. He explained in a recent interview that none of the
candidates polled high enough to warrant debating.

Garcetti instead focused his campaign around touting his record, which he said
included pushing for the voter approval of a transportation tax measure and a
$1.2 billion bond measure to pay for the construction of homeless housing.

As for the critiques, he said he has addressed them multiple times, saying, "I
never shy away," including on the issue of crime. He said he hopes to "reverse"
the uptick in crime over the next few months "as we hire more police officers,
put more police officers on the street ... and move police officers from
civilian jobs into the field," he said.

In addition to Schwartz, other candidates in the running to unseat Garcetti
included artist Paul E. Amori, community advocate David Hernandez, math educator
and activist Yuval Kremer, factory worker Dennis Richter, community activist
Frantz Pierre, writer and producer Eric Preven, community activist David "Zuma
Dogg" Saltsburg, neighborhood councilman YJ Draiman and retired educator and
actor Diane "Pinky" Harman.

City Attorney Mike Feuer and Controller Ron Galperin are both up for
re-election, but ran unopposed.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 8, 2017 Wednesday

garcetti winning, measure s failing;
Mayor: He cruises to re-election; ICE foes crash party

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words


Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti cruised to an easy re-election victory Tuesday
with an ocean of votes separating him and his 10 challengers in early returns.

Garcetti had 55,518 or 80.93 percent of the votes as of 10:15 p.m., with 6
percent of the vote counted according to the Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk's Office. Mitchell Schwartz was a distant second
with 5,330, or 7.77 percent.

Garcetti raised more money than the other candidates by a formidable margin,
raking in more than $3.8 million and far outstripping the second best-funded
candidate, Schwartz, who had just over $456,000 to work with.

At his election night party inside the Laborers' Local 300 headquarters in
Pico-Union, Garcetti and his wife, Amy Elaine Wakeland, appeared before a
cheering crowd to the beat of the Justin Timberlake hit "Can't Stop the Feeling"
to give his victory speech. Wakeland introduced Garcetti, calling him "your
mayor of Los Angeles," but a few sentences into his remarks, the soundtrack
changed to shouting as protesters broke out in chants "ICE out of L.A.!" from
among the crowd of partygoers.

The protesters appeared to be part of a contingent that had been stationed
outside the gathering voicing demands to have L.A. be declared a "sanctuary
city," a term used for cities that work to protect undocumented immigrants from
being deported.

Garcetti was criticized for refusing to use the words "sanctuary city" to
describe Los Angeles, which was never officially declared one.

Garcetti eventually got back to the stage, thanked his volunteers and closed his
remarks by encouraging Angelenos to "exercise the voice that you have - protest,
speak out, crash a campaign party."

"There are no challenges we cannot face and no problem we cannot solve,"
Garcetti said.

After leading a quick chant of "S[#xfffd] se puede!" Garcetti declared "Let's
get back to work tomorrow!"

Several protesters were escorted out at different points throughout his speech.

Garcetti successfully fended off attacks from challengers who described his
first term as "underwhelming," saying the city had not fared well under his
leadership. They cited an increase in homelessness, annual crime rates inching
up, the high cost of living in Los Angeles and many city services still
stretched thin.

Political strategist Schwartz, seen as Garcetti's strongest challenger, said
last week that voters should not accept the "status quo."

"I want them to know there is a choice out there," Schwartz said.

Despite the criticisms, Garcetti largely ignored his opponents, mostly by not
attending any debates. He explained in a recent interview that none of the
candidates polled high enough to warrant debating.

Garcetti instead focused his campaign around touting his record, which he said
included pushing for the voter approval of a transportation tax measure and a
$1.2 billion bond measure to pay for the construction of homeless housing.

As for the critiques, he said he has addressed them multiple times, saying, "I
never shy away," including on the issue of crime. He said he hopes to "reverse"
the uptick in crime over the next few months "as we hire more police officers,
put more police officers on the street ... and move police officers from
civilian jobs into the field," he said.

In addition to Schwartz, other candidates in the running to unseat Garcetti
included artist Paul E. Amori, community advocate David Hernandez, math educator
and activist Yuval Kremer, factory worker Dennis Richter, community activist
Frantz Pierre, writer and producer Eric Preven, community activist David "Zuma
Dogg" Saltsburg, neighborhood councilman YJ Draiman and retired educator and
actor Diane "Pinky" Harman.

City Attorney Mike Feuer and Controller Ron Galperin are both up for
re-election, but ran unopposed.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
             DONOR: Black Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles


                          LAST UPDATED: June 27, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000 - 9,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Harriet Buhai Center For Family Law
TAXCODE:  95-3943493
URL:  http://www.hbcfl.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90010
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Black Women Lawyers Association of Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017


                              342 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
              DONOR: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles ('12 '15)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000 - 99,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles ('12 '15)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              343 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
               DONOR: United Way of Greater Los Angeles ('14 '16)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100,000 - 249,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way of Greater Los Angeles ('14 '16)
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              344 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
               DONOR: United Way of Greater Los Angeles ('13 '15)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2014

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100,000 - 249,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United Way of Greater Los Angeles ('13 '15)
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             June 24, 2017 Saturday

Father of missing 5-year-old Califonia boy arrested on suspicion of murder

BYLINE: Brian Day, San Gabriel Valley Tribune

LENGTH: 453 words



HIGHLIGHT: Detectives on Friday arrested the father of a 5-year-old South
Pasadena boy, who's been missing for two months, on suspicion of the child's
murder, authorities said.


SOUTH PASADENA  Detectives on Friday arrested the father of a 5-year-old South
Pasadena boy, whos been missing for two months, on suspicion of the childs
murder, authorities said.

Police search home of grandmother of missing 5-year-old California boy

Mother of missing California boy describes her 'worst nightmare'

Father of missing California boy says hes desperate to find son

Boy missing after father found unconscious in California park      Los Angeles
County Sheriffs Department Homicide Bureau detectives arrested 35-year-old
Aramazd Andressian Sr. of South Pasadena about 1 p.m. in Las Vegas on suspicion
of the murder Aramazd Andressian Jr., whose been missing since April 22,
according to Deputy Grace Medrano of the sheriffs Information Bureau.

The arrests followed a murder charge filed against Andressian Sr. by the Los
Angeles County District Attorneys Office.

After reviewing all of the evidence in this case, homicide investigators
presented the facts to the Los Angeles County District Attorneys Office and
obtained a murder filing against the suspect, Medrano said in a written
statement.

The suspect was booked at Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department with a bail
of $10 million and will return to Los Angeles County pending the extradition
process, she said.

Detectives were assisted in the arrest by the sheriffs Major Crimes Bureau
Fugitive Taskforce, Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, and the Pacific
Southwest Regional Fugitive Taskforce of the United States Marshals Service, she
said.

Andressian Jr. was reported missing by his mother on April 22. He was last seen
the day before while with his father, who failed to turn over the child to his
mother for a scheduled custody exchange.

Andressian Sr., was found unconscious on April 22 near his car, which was parked
at the Arroyo Seco Park in South Pasadena. The vehicle was doused in gasoline
and there was a rag sticking out of the gas tank.

He told police he had taken prescription pills that belonged to someone else and
did not know what had happened to his son.

A massive search for the missing boy ensued in the following weeks, with
officials and volunteers scouring every place the man and son were known to have
visited, including the Arroyo Seco Park and the Lake Cachuma Recreation Area in
Santa Barbara County.

No futher details were released Friday regarding the arrest of Andressian Sr.
Officials planned to discuss the case in more detail at a scheduled press
conference on Monday.

Anyone with information on the case is asked to contact the sheriffs Homicide
Bureau at 323-890-5500. Tips may also be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional
Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FILE This undated photo provided by the South Pasadena, Calif., Police
Department shows Aramazd Andressian Sr. The Los Angeles County Sheriffs
Department says the father of a 5-year-old who has been missing for two months
has been arrested on suspicion of his sons murder. The department said in a
statement that 35-year-old Aramazd Andressian Sr. was arrested on Friday, June
23, 2017, afternoon in Las Vegas and is being held there on $10 million bail.
(South Pasadena Police Department via AP, File) ORG XMIT: LA507

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              April 7, 2017 Friday

Man wounded in shooting 2 sought in cellphone store takeover robbery San
Bernardino Co. robbery suspect jailed Burglar caught near scene of crime

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 761 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, April 7, 2017.

FULL TEXT

A 20-year-old Azusa man was shot in the leg Wednesday night.

No one has been arrested.

Police received multiple calls about gunshots in the 500 block of East Foothill
Boulevard at 5:43 p.m. Officers didn't see a victim or suspect at the scene.

But they found out that a man had been shot and left in a car prior to their
arrival, according to Lt. Chris Grant.

He said staff at a local hospital later notified police that a gunshot victim
was admitted to the emergency room.

Detective Seth Chapman said the man was treated for a gunshot wound to the leg
and released.

Police are still trying to determine what led to the shooting and why.

They don't know if the incident is related to Sunday's shooting on Arrow Highway
that left one man critically injured.

Anyone with information about the shootings is asked to call the Azusa Police
Department at 626-812-3200.

Tow masked man carried out a takeover robbery at a San Marino cellphone store at
gunpoint late Wednesday, police said.

The crime was reported about 8:20 p.m. at a Verizon Wireless store at2116
Huntington Drive, according to San Marino police Sgt. Robert Matthews.

The two employees relayed that two men had entered the store, and at least one
of them pulled a handgun.

The robbers left the business trough a rear door. No getaway car was seen.

Police described the robbers as to men wearing black pants, black gloves, black
hooded sweatshirts and bandanas covering their faces.

Anyone with information is urged to contact San Marino police Detective Brian
Wong at 626-300-0719. Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional
Crime Stoppersat 800-222-8477.

Police checking on reports of a suspicious vehicle in San Marino early Thursday
arrested two people, including a documented gang member with a prior history of
robbery, in connection to a San Bernardino County robbery, authorities said.

Arthur Charles Moses, 21, of Los Angeles and Tisha Campbell, 23, of Los Angeles
were booked on suspicion of crimes including robbery, possession of stolen
property and possession of burglary tools following their 12:15 a.m. arrest in
the900 block of Huntington Drive, San Marino police Sgt. Tim Tebbetts said in a
written statement.

A witnesses called police to report seeing a 2015 Nissan Altima with paper
license plates driving slowly through an alleyway with it's brights on, he said.
Officers responded and spoke with the driver, Campbell, and her passenger,
Moses, "who stated they were lost," the sergeant said.

"Upon further investigation, black ski masks, gloves and a crowbar were located
under the passenger seat of the vehicle," Tebbetts said. "Additionally,
checkbooks and other property were located inside the vehicle that neither
person could explain."

Police soon learned the person whose name was printed on a checkbook found
inside the car had been the victim of a recent robbery in San Bernardino County,
police said.

Officials in San Bernardino County confirmed Moses, a documented Los Angeles
gang member who was already wanted on a warrant for robbery, was believed to be
connected to the crime.

According to county booking records, Moses was being held without bail at the
Alhambra Police Department's jail pending his initial court appearance. Campbell
was released from custody with a misdemeanor citation.

Police investigating a break-in at a cell phone store early Thursday morning
didn't have to look far for a suspect.

Across the street they found gloves, a pair of pliers and a man on probation for
burglary.

The incident began with an alarm going off at a cell phone store in the 300
block of South San Gabriel Boulevard around 3 a.m.

San Gabriel Police Lt. Fabian Valdez said officers saw the front door had been
forced open and found a screwdriver near the door. It appeared the burglar
didn't get anything.

Officers then noticed a man at a bus stop across the street watching them.

Valdez said officers talked to the man who had a backpack and a flashlight. They
discovered he is on probation for burglary. Officers also saw black gloves and
pair of pliers in a nearby trash can, according to Valdez.

Officers detained the man. When the store's owner arrived, police looked at the
security video which featured a now familiar face.

Valdez said the suspect caught on video turned out to be the man at the bus
stop.

Ruben Briseno, 37, of West Covina, was arrested on suspicion of burglary. He is
being held at the Inmate Reception Center in lieu of $20,000 bail.

Briseno will be arraigned April 10 at Alhambra Superior Court.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                              April 7, 2017 Friday

Man wounded in shooting 2 sought in cellphone store takeover robbery San
Bernardino Co. robbery suspect jailed Burglar caught near scene of crime

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 761 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, April 7, 2017.

FULL TEXT

A 20-year-old Azusa man was shot in the leg Wednesday night.

No one has been arrested.

Police received multiple calls about gunshots in the 500 block of East Foothill
Boulevard at 5:43 p.m. Officers didn't see a victim or suspect at the scene.

But they found out that a man had been shot and left in a car prior to their
arrival, according to Lt. Chris Grant.

He said staff at a local hospital later notified police that a gunshot victim
was admitted to the emergency room.

Detective Seth Chapman said the man was treated for a gunshot wound to the leg
and released.

Police are still trying to determine what led to the shooting and why.

They don't know if the incident is related to Sunday's shooting on Arrow Highway
that left one man critically injured.

Anyone with information about the shootings is asked to call the Azusa Police
Department at 626-812-3200.

Tow masked man carried out a takeover robbery at a San Marino cellphone store at
gunpoint late Wednesday, police said.

The crime was reported about 8:20 p.m. at a Verizon Wireless store at2116
Huntington Drive, according to San Marino police Sgt. Robert Matthews.

The two employees relayed that two men had entered the store, and at least one
of them pulled a handgun.

The robbers left the business trough a rear door. No getaway car was seen.

Police described the robbers as to men wearing black pants, black gloves, black
hooded sweatshirts and bandanas covering their faces.

Anyone with information is urged to contact San Marino police Detective Brian
Wong at 626-300-0719. Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional
Crime Stoppersat 800-222-8477.

Police checking on reports of a suspicious vehicle in San Marino early Thursday
arrested two people, including a documented gang member with a prior history of
robbery, in connection to a San Bernardino County robbery, authorities said.

Arthur Charles Moses, 21, of Los Angeles and Tisha Campbell, 23, of Los Angeles
were booked on suspicion of crimes including robbery, possession of stolen
property and possession of burglary tools following their 12:15 a.m. arrest in
the900 block of Huntington Drive, San Marino police Sgt. Tim Tebbetts said in a
written statement.

A witnesses called police to report seeing a 2015 Nissan Altima with paper
license plates driving slowly through an alleyway with it's brights on, he said.
Officers responded and spoke with the driver, Campbell, and her passenger,
Moses, "who stated they were lost," the sergeant said.

"Upon further investigation, black ski masks, gloves and a crowbar were located
under the passenger seat of the vehicle," Tebbetts said. "Additionally,
checkbooks and other property were located inside the vehicle that neither
person could explain."

Police soon learned the person whose name was printed on a checkbook found
inside the car had been the victim of a recent robbery in San Bernardino County,
police said.

Officials in San Bernardino County confirmed Moses, a documented Los Angeles
gang member who was already wanted on a warrant for robbery, was believed to be
connected to the crime.

According to county booking records, Moses was being held without bail at the
Alhambra Police Department's jail pending his initial court appearance. Campbell
was released from custody with a misdemeanor citation.

Police investigating a break-in at a cell phone store early Thursday morning
didn't have to look far for a suspect.

Across the street they found gloves, a pair of pliers and a man on probation for
burglary.

The incident began with an alarm going off at a cell phone store in the 300
block of South San Gabriel Boulevard around 3 a.m.

San Gabriel Police Lt. Fabian Valdez said officers saw the front door had been
forced open and found a screwdriver near the door. It appeared the burglar
didn't get anything.

Officers then noticed a man at a bus stop across the street watching them.

Valdez said officers talked to the man who had a backpack and a flashlight. They
discovered he is on probation for burglary. Officers also saw black gloves and
pair of pliers in a nearby trash can, according to Valdez.

Officers detained the man. When the store's owner arrived, police looked at the
security video which featured a now familiar face.

Valdez said the suspect caught on video turned out to be the man at the bus
stop.

Ruben Briseno, 37, of West Covina, was arrested on suspicion of burglary. He is
being held at the Inmate Reception Center in lieu of $20,000 bail.

Briseno will be arraigned April 10 at Alhambra Superior Court.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           September 22, 2017 Friday

Glendora man receives sentence of at least three decades

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @sgvcrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words

ABSTRACT

He was responsible for 13 crimes, ranging from attempted murder and
home-invasion robbery - and more.

FULL TEXT

A Glendora man convicted of a laundry list of crimes, ranging from attempted
murder and home-invasion robbery to identity theft and auto theft, received a
sentence of more than three decades in state prison on Thursday, authorities
said.

Clayton Ruben Addleman, 26, was sentenced to 33 years to life behind bars in the
Pomona branch of Los Angeles County Superior Court, Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago said.

A Pomona jury convicted him July 12 of 13 criminal counts: three counts of
burglary with a person present, attempted murder, residential robbery, grant
theft auto, grand theft, identity theft, forgery related to identity theft,
assault with a firearm, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, possession
of ammunition by a convicted felon and petty theft, district attorney's office
spokeswoman Sarah Ardalani said at the time.

The jury also found true a special allegation that Addlemanused a gun in the
crimes, and he faced a maximum potential sentence of 52 years to life in prison.

Addleman was arrested in late December 2015 in connection with a Dec. 27, 2015,
shooting in Glendora, as well as a Dec. 29, 2015, home-invasion robbery in San
Marino, according to Ardalani.

In the shooting, Addleman shot at another man, but missed, officials said. In
the San Marino home-invasion robbery, Addleman and another suspect broke into a
family's home in the 500 block of Huntington Drive as the terrified residents
hid in acloset. They stole items from the home and tried to flee with the
victim's Mercedes, but crashed it while trying to escape.

While taking Addleman into custody, police discovered the already convicted
felon had bullets, as well as numerous checks and documents in the names of
other people, Ardalani said. He was already on probation because ofprevious
convictions.

Addleman was convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon and possession of
drugs for sales in July of 2015, shortly after police raided his Starcrest Drive
home and discovered two rifles, four handguns, ammunition, 1,000 Xanax pills and
a scale, Glendora police Lt. Matt Egan said at the time. Police had gone to the
home to search for illegal fireworks following a conviction for possessing
pyrotechnic contraband in 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                              July 28, 2017 Friday

Massive West Coast sex trafficking ring included 15-year-old sold in plain sight

BYLINE: Susan Abram, Southern California News Group

LENGTH: 687 words



HIGHLIGHT: Thirteen girls and young women, including a 15-year-old, were rescued
recently as part of one of the largest sex trafficking rings on the West Coast,
Los Angeles County Sheriff's officials announced Thursday.


Thirteen girls and young women, including a 15-year-old, were rescued recently
as part of one of the largest sex trafficking rings on the West Coast, Los
Angeles County Sheriffs officials announced Thursday.

The rescue began with a missing persons report in Tulare County in late 2016.

The missing girl was a teenager, and her disappearance and discovery in January
in a West Hollywood apartment unit led detectives from the Los Angeles Sheriffs
Department to a massive human sex trafficking ring that ran across California
and into Nevada. Investigators found apartment units were being rented and used
as brothels in more than a dozen communities, including in Chatsworth, Burbank,
West Hollywood and Las Vegas.

Years ago, a human trafficking case of this magnitude was not likely, Los
Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell said in a news conference in downtown. We
knew the more we looked, the more we would find.

The six-month investigation by the Tulare County Sheriffs Department, Los
Angeles Sheriffs Department, Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Task Force,
and the California Department of Justice, has led to two arrests so far. Quinton
Brown, 30, of Highland, and Gerald Turner, 32, of Fresno, were arrested on
suspicion of 54 charges relating to sex trafficking, pimping, pandering, grand
theft and identity theft.

The complaint, filed Wednesday by the California Attorney Generals office,
alleges that Brown lured victims from the Central Valley as far back as in
October and trafficked them throughout the state. Investigators also said:

. The 13 victims include eight minors who were sold for commercial sex.

. A 2017 Maserati Ghibli, a 2017 Maserati Levante, and a 2016 Porsche Panamera,
all confiscated by investigators, were used in the ring and obtained through
fraudulent means.

. Eight people were victims of identity theft.

. 16 sites across California and in Nevada were used as brothels as part of the
ring.

Investigators are still looking for Mia McNeil, 32, of Los Angeles, who they
believe is the one who rented the locations to be used as brothels, McDonnell
said. She also leased high-end vehicles to transport the girls and young women.
Investigators are asking the publics help for information leading to her
location, McDonnell added.

He said investigators learned that Brown and Turner would traffic the victims in
plain sight, using the Internet to post photos to announce that they were for
sale.

They are as young as 15 years old, bought and sold for commercial sex, McDonnell
added.

California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said at the news conference such sex
trafficking cases mostly involve victims born and raised in the United States.
He said 72 percent of the victims found in California say they are American.

Human trafficking, which includes sex and labor trafficking, is one of the
fasting growing crimes in the world. Its reach is not limited to foreign
countries, Becerra said. In California, human trafficking is reported here in
our state more than in any other.

Investigators said the case is ongoing, including finding those who solicited
the teens and young women.

The predators online that are looking for an 11 year old  these people are not
the traditional johns that most people think of. McDonnell said. These are
predators. These are child molesters that are out there taking advantage of some
of the most vulnerable in society.

Since the Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Task Force was established in
2015, there have been 697 arrests, and of those, about 30 percent were male
buyers. In addition, there have been 185 victims rescued, a majority of them
youths who were sex trafficked.

Tulare County Sheriff Mike Boudreaux said he has since met with one of the
victims rescued, and she has received help and is back in school. But he
implored parents to watch their children carefully, especially while they are on
their mobile phones.

To the parents, be vigilant, he said into news cameras at the press conference.
Pay attention to what your children are doing online. Social networking is an
environment for predators to prey on and exploit the innocence of our children.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                     October 12, 2017 Thursday 10:06 AM GMT

Police called after 'family dispute' at Harvey Weinstein's daughter's home;
The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) confirmed they were called to reports
of a "disturbance"

BYLINE: By James Rodger

SECTION: NEWS; Version:2

LENGTH: 629 words


Officers were called after a "family dispute" at the home of Harvey Weinstein's
daughter on Wednesday as the scandal surrounding the disgraced Hollywood movie
mogul continued.

The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) confirmed they were called to reports
of a "disturbance" at the house but said no crime had been committed. Weinstein
was not there when officers arrived.

An LAPD spokesman said: "At 10.37am Los Angeles Police Department officers
responded to the 500 block of North Kilkea Drive at the house of Harvey
Weinstein's daughter and were there for a disturbance call.

"Officers arrived and conducted an investigation. It was revealed that there was
no crime and it was a family dispute. Officers then left the scene."

The incident follows a string of sexual harassment allegations being levelled
against Weinstein from women who worked with him.

British actress and supermodel Cara Delevingne was the latest star to speak out
on Wednesday.

Annette Bening and Barbara Broccoli speak out against Harvey Weinstein

She claimed Weinstein made advances towards her in a hotel room after asking her
to kiss another woman.

In a statement posted on Instagram she said she was left feeling "very powerless
and scared" when he invited her to his hotel room.

She said: "I was so hesitant about speaking out....I didn't want to hurt his
family. I felt guilty as if I did something wrong.

"I was also terrified that this sort of thing had happened to so many women I
know but no one had said anything because of fear."

Spectre actress Lea Seydoux also joined the ranks of Harvey Weinstein's
accusers, saying she had to defend herself after the director allegedly jumped
on her and tried to kiss her.

The French actress, who won the Palme d'Or at Cannes for Blue Is The Warmest
Colour, said the movie mogul stared at her "as if I was a piece of meat".

First Dates' Fred Sirieix invites 'pull a pig victim' onto show

Writing in the Guardian, she said: "We were talking on the sofa when he suddenly
jumped on me and tried to kiss me. I had to defend myself. He's big and fat, so
I had to be forceful to resist him.

"I left his room, thoroughly disgusted. I wasn't afraid of him, though. Because
I knew what kind of man he was all along."

On Tuesday, Weinstein was accused of rape by three women - claims Weinstein
"unequivocally denies" - and his British wife Georgina Chapman announced she was
leaving him.

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which hosts the Oscars,
described the sexual abuse allegations against Harvey Weinstein as "repugnant"
and "abhorrent" and said on Wednesday that it would be holding a meeting on
Saturday to discuss any action to be taken.

Ewan McGregor: Harvey Weinstein getting his 'just desserts'

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta) also announced it had
suspended his membership, effective immediately.

Rose McGowan, another accuser, called for the board of the Weinstein Company to
be dissolved following the allegations against its co-founder.

The actress, 44, tweeted a link to the campaign on website ipetitions.com and
said: "Join me in supporting this important cause at iPetitions. DISSOLVE THE
BOARD."

Over 10,000 signatures had been added to the petition by Thursday.

Meanwhile, stars across Hollywood have continued to condemn Weinstein's
behaviour.

Ewan McGregor said Weinstein was a "bully", Matt Damon said he had been left
"absolutely sick to my stomach" while Ben Affleck added he was "saddened and
angry that a man who I worked with used his position of power to intimidate,
sexually harass and manipulate many women over decades".

Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May also spoke out about the scandal on
Wednesday.

She said the reports were "deeply concerning" as senior politicians called for
Weinstein to be stripped of his CBE.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2017 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           October 12, 2017 Thursday

City to pay $15M in crosswalk accident Experimental jet debuts in SoCal Juvenile
murderers to get chance at freedom Recording crimes could bring harsher
sentences Man is sentenced for drug money laundering

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 602 words

ABSTRACT

Southern California specialty aerospace developer Scaled Composites has unveiled
a new experimental aircraft for an unspecified "proprietary customer."

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles will pay $15 million to settle a lawsuit by a man who was struck by
a car in a Hollywood crosswalk and left with permanent brain damage.

The Los Angeles Times reports that the City Council voted Wednesday to approve a
settlement with John Victoria and his mother.

Victoria was hit in a marked crosswalk on Franklin Avenue four years ago and was
in a coma for months.

The lawsuit argued that the intersection was poorly designed, warning signs were
obscured and traffic laws weren't properly enforced.

Los Angeles has settled a string of costly lawsuits involving the state of its
roads. Last week, the council approved a $7.5-million payment to a bicyclist who
was paralyzed when he crashed after hitting uneven pavement.

Southern California specialty aerospace developer Scaled Composites has unveiled
a new experimental aircraft for an unspecified "proprietary customer."

The Northrop Grumman subsidiary says the single-engine jet flew for the first
time Wednesday.

The Mojave-based company says Model 401 is the first of a pair of airplanes
intended "to demonstrate advanced, low-cost manufacturing techniques, and to
provide aircraft for research flight services to industry partners and the
United States government."

The jet has a 38-foot wingspan, is 38 feet long and will fly at Mach 0.6, with a
service ceiling of 30,000 feet. It is powered by a Pratt & Whitney JTD-15D-5D
engine.

California inmates serving life sentences for crimes they committed as juveniles
will get a chance at leaving prison under one of several criminal justice bills
signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown.

The governor on Wednesday approved legislation conforming state law to several
recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions banning mandatory life sentences for those
under 18 convicted of murder.

SB394 automatically gives the offenders a chance at parole after 25 years,
although there's no guarantee they will be released.

Taking a video recording of a violent felony as it is occurring may now increase
a person's criminal sentence in California.

Legislation signed by Gov. Jerry Brown on Wednesday says courts may consider
such recordings as an aggravating factor when determining someone's sentence. It
applies to violent felonies such as murder, rape, robbery or a host of other
crimes if the defendant is filming the offense with the intent of encouraging or
facilitating it.

Assemblyman Matt Dababneh says the bill is aimed at deterring attacks motivated
by social media.

It's called "Jordan's Law" after 14-year-old Jordan Peisner, who was attacked
outside of a restaurant last year. A video of the attack was posted on social
media.

A number of crimes have been streamed on social media in recent years.

A Southern California man who sold airplanes to drug dealers in a
money-laundering scheme has been sentenced to five years in federal prison.

The San Diego Union-Tribune reports that Vicente Contreras Amezquita was
sentenced Wednesday by a judge in San Diego. He'd pleaded guilty to conspiracy.

Authorities say the Chula Vista airplane broker helped drug cartels launder $3.6
million over five years by selling them 35 small planes for exportation to
Mexico.

In a plea deal, he acknowledged hiding the origins of the money, arranging to
deposit the cash in dozens of bank accounts in several states before it finally
was used to buy the planes.

A co-defendant who pleaded guilty awaits sentencing but Contreras's wife and
other alleged accomplices remain fugitives.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
            DONOR: Service Employees International Union Los Angeles


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500 - 4,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Service Employees International Union Los Angeles
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              353 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Reforms: Police say early-release laws led to crime surge, but data are showing
otherwise

BYLINE: Jason Henry; jhenry@scng.com @JasonMHenry on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 950 words


A man with gang ties suspected of killing a Whittier police officer
Mondaybenefitedfrom lesser punishments for repeat offenders enacted under a
controversial 2011 prison-reform law, records show. But statistics on the
fallout from the law do not support a wider claim that the reforms resulted in
an overall increase in violent crime statewide.

On Tuesday, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors blamed AB 109, as well
as the voter-approved Propositions 47 and 57, for creating "additional and
considerable" threats to law enforcement. They called for an investigation of
the county's actions in response to the death of Whittier Officer Keith Boyer, a
28-year veteran allegedly

shot and killed by suspect Michael Mejia, 26, of Los Angeles.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper was among those criticizing the prison reforms
laws Monday as he grieved for his long-time friend and co-worker.

"We need to wake up. Enough is enough. You're passing these propositions, you're
creating these laws. ... It's not good for our community (and) it's not good for
our officers," Piper said at a press conference.

AB 109 was the California bill that realigned the state's overcrowded prison
system, shifting responsibility over repeat, nonviolent offenders from state
prisons to county jails. Researchers of the law say that while Mejia may have
been a beneficiary, his actions do not line up with state crime trends.

Violent crime did not increase as a result of AB 109, despite law enforcement
and politicians often saying otherwise, they said. Both proponents and opponents
agree even less research exists for Prop. 47, a voter initiative passed in 2014
that reduced certain property and drug charges to misdemeanors.

"As upsetting as this instance was and as problematic as it was, if we were to
throw out AB 109 as a result of this incident, we would not be doing empirically
based policy," said Charis Kubrin, a professor of criminology at UC Irvine and
one of the few to study the topic in depth. "There is no doubt in my mind that
AB 109 had zero impact one way or another on violent crime across the state."

Kubrin and UC Irvine's Carroll Seron oversaw the firstscientific analysisof AB
109 last year in an issue of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science focused entirely on the topic. Few other impartial reviews of the
law exist in part because the state did not set aside money for studying AB 109.
And any statistics are managed at the county level.

Researchers had to gather information from each county, merge the datasets and
then establish controls for other factors - like unemployment rates - to ensure
they're only looking at the effects of the reforms, Kubrin said.

UC Irvine's findings showed that while AB 109 contributed to a small rise in
property crimes - mostly auto thefts - there was no evidence of increases in
assaults, rapes, murders or other violent crimes as a result of the reforms.

California's crime trends matched up with other similar states that did not
implement the changes.

"There's so many other things that cause crime rates to go up and down,
everything from drugs, to guns, to gangs, to police-community relations, to
equality and unemployment," Kubrin said.

The Public Policy Institute of California similarly found no effect on violent
crime as a result of realignment ina studyreleased in September 2016. The
institute, however, did find that despite re-arrest and re-conviction rates
largely staying the same as pre-alignment levels, the number of offenders
returning to state prison for parole violations within the first two years
dropped from 55 percent to 16.5 percent.

While crime increases throughout California in the last year and half can't be
tied conclusively to AB 109 or Prop. 47, four officers in Southern California
have died in the last six months to attacks by repeat offenders, said Michael
Rushford, president of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation.

"The wheels are falling off the train," he said.

"The fact that it hasn't fallen in the ocean yet doesn't mean we shouldn't be
concerned."

Rushford said the shooting of Boyer and police deaths in Los Angeles and Palm
Springs last year all involved recently released parolees. In the two other
cases, the suspects had parole violations - drunk driving charges - that would
have historically resulted in them going back to state prison, but instead only
resulted in "flash incarcerations" under AB 109 and Prop. 47.

"It's likely that both of these offenders were just as the Whittier shooter was,
back on the streets because of these laws," he said.

Flash incarcerations are an intermediate sanction introduced by AB 109 that
punishes a probationer with up to 10 days in jail for minor violations. Mejia
was flash incarcerated five times in the last year for violations of his
community supervision, according to arrest logs.

He was out of custody Monday when authorities say he crashed a stolen car and
then opened fire on officers responding. Boyer died in the gunfight and another
officer was wounded.

"Though each policy was met with some initial concerns over public safety, a
seven-year review of the data suggests that no visible change in crime resulted
from Realignment. More data are needed before drawing conclusions about Prop.
47's effect on crime," wrote Mike Males, a senior research fellow at the center.

Locally, Los Angeles, Downey, El Monte and cities throughout the San Gabriel
Valley saw double digit increases in violent crimes in the first half of 2016,
according to crime statistics released by the FBI.

Kubrin said large increases were seen at the local level, but consistently
across the state, likely indicate the crime is not the result of the statewide
programs.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Reforms: Police say early-release laws led to crime surge, but data are showing
otherwise

BYLINE: Jason Henry; jhenry@scng.com @JasonMHenry on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 951 words


A man with gang ties suspected of killing a Whittier Police officer
Mondaybenefittedfrom lesser punishments for repeat offenders enacted under a
controversial 2011 prison-reform law, records show. But statistics on the
fallout from the law do not support a wider claim that the reforms resulted in
an overall increase in violent crime statewide.

On Tuesday, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors blamed AB 109, as well
as the voter-approved Propositions 47 and 57, for creating "additional and
considerable" threats to law enforcement. They called for an investigation of
the county's actions in response to the death of Whittier Officer Keith Boyer, a
28-year veteran allegedly

shot and killed by suspect Michael Mejia, 26, of Los Angeles.

Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper was among those criticizing the prison reforms
laws Monday as he grieved for his long-time friend and co-worker.

"We need to wake up. Enough is enough. You're passing these propositions, you're
creating these laws. ... It's not good for our community (and) it's not good for
our officers," Piper said at a press conference.

AB 109 was the California bill that realigned the state's overcrowded prison
system, shifting responsibility over repeat, nonviolent offenders from state
prisons to county jails. Researchers of the law say that while Mejia may have
been a beneficiary, his actions do not line up with state crime trends.

Violent crime did not increase as a result of AB 109, despite law enforcement
and politicians often saying otherwise, they said. Both proponents and opponents
agree even less research exists for Prop. 47, a voter initiative passed in 2014
that reduced certain property and drug charges to misdemeanors.

"As upsetting as this instance was and as problematic as it was, if we were to
throw out AB 109 as a result of this incident, we would not be doing empirically
based policy," said Charis Kubrin, a professor of criminology at UC Irvine and
one of the few to study the topic in depth. "There is no doubt in my mind that
AB 109 had zero impact one way or another on violent crime across the state."

Kubrin and UC Irvine's Carroll Seron oversaw the firstscientific analysisof AB
109 last year in an issue of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science focused entirely on the topic. Few other impartial reviews of the
law exist in part because the state did not set aside money for studying AB 109.
And any statistics are managed at the county level.

Researchers had to gather information from each county, merge the datasets and
then establish controls for other factors - like unemployment rates - to ensure
they're only looking at the effects of the reforms, Kubrin said.

UC Irvine's findings showed that while AB 109 contributed to a small rise in
property crimes - mostly auto thefts - there was no evidence of increases in
assaults, rapes, murders or other violent crimes as a result of the reforms.

California's crime trends matched up with other similar states that did not
implement the changes.

"There's so many other things that cause crime rates to go up and down,
everything from drugs, to guns, to gangs, to police-community relations, to
equality and unemployment," Kubrin said.

The Public Policy Institute of California similarly found no effect on violent
crime as a result of realignment ina studyreleased in September 2016. The
institute, however, did find that despite re-arrest and re-conviction rates
largely staying the same as pre-alignment levels, the number of offenders
returning to state prison for parole violations within the first two years
dropped from 55 percent to 16.5 percent.

While crime increases throughout California in the last year and half can't be
tied conclusively to AB 109 or Prop. 47, four officers in Southern California
have died in the last six months to attacks by repeat offenders, said Michael
Rushford, president of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation.

"The wheels are falling off the train," he said.

"The fact that it hasn't fallen in the ocean yet doesn't mean we shouldn't be
concerned."

Rushford said the shooting of Boyer and police deaths in Los Angeles and Palm
Springs last year all involved recently released parolees. In the two other
cases, the suspects had parole violations - drunk driving charges - that would
have historically resulted in them going back to state prison, but instead only
resulted in "flash incarcerations" under AB 109 and Prop. 47.

"It's likely that both of these offenders were just as the Whittier shooter was,
back on the streets because of these laws," he said.

Flash incarcerations are an intermediate sanction introduced by AB 109 that
punishes a probationer with up to 10 days in jail for minor violations. Mejia
was flash incarcerated five times in the last year for violations of his
community supervision, according to arrest logs.

He was out of custody Monday when authorities say he crashed a stolen car and
then opened fire on officers responding. Boyer died in the gunfight and another
officer was wounded.

"Though each policy was met with some initial concerns over public safety, a
seven-year review of the data suggests that no visible change in crime resulted
from Realignment. More data are needed before drawing conclusions about Prop.
47's effect on crime," wrote Mike Males, a senior research fellow at the center.

Locally, Los Angeles, Downey, El Monte and cities throughout the San Gabriel
Valley saw double digit increases in violent crimes in the first half of 2016,
according to crime statistics released by the FBI.

Kubrin said large increases were seen at the local level, but consistently
across the state, likely indicate the crime is not the result of the statewide
programs.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday

James' mood turns somber after racist graffiti discovered

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: SPORTS_; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


OAKLAND, Calif. -- LeBron James issued a searing and personal response to the
discovery of racist graffiti spray-painted outside his Los Angeles home early
Wednesday, using a news conference to deliver a somber soliloquy about race in
America on the eve of the NBA Finals.

James explicitly placed his social standing as the world's best basketball
player ahead of preparation for perhaps the most anticipated series of his
career.

"I think back to Emmett Till's mom, actually," James said. "That's one of the
first things I thought of. The reason she had an open casket was that she wanted
to show the world what her son went through as far as a hate crime and being
black in America. No matter how much money you have, no matter how famous you
are, no matter how many people admire you, being black in America is tough.
We've got a long way to go, for us as a society and for us as African-Americans,
until we feel equal in America."

Police said a racial slur had been spray-painted across the front gate of a home
James owns in Los Angeles. The LAPD said it would investigate the vandalism as a
hate crime and examine security camera footage from nearby homes to identify a
suspect. James lives in the house in the offseason, and he and his family were
not living in the home at the time.

James said his family is safe, "and that's most important." But the crime
visibly rattled him. At his news conference at Oracle Arena, where his Cleveland
Cavaliers will open their title defense in a third consecutive Finals meeting
with the Golden State Warriors on Thursday night, James appeared shaken but
resolute.

He wore a white T-shirt emblazoned with a photo of Muhammad Ali's face. He
measured his words and frequently paused to swallow hard.

James also seized the incident as an opportunity to prove how extensive racism
remains in America. If somebody of James' stature is not immune to a potential
hate crime, James reasoned, the graffiti showed the pervasiveness of hate. In
that way, he welcomed the maliciousness.

"As I sit here on the eve of one of the greatest sporting events that we have in
sports, race and what's going on comes again and on my behalf and on my family's
behalf," James said.

"But I look at it as, if this can shed light and continue to keep the
conversation going on my behalf, then I'm OK with it ... It just goes to show
that racism will always be a part of the world, a part of America. Hate in
America, especially for African-Americans, is with them every day. Even though
it's concealed most of the time, people hide their faces, say things about you.
When they see you, they smile in your face. It's alive every single day."

"Surprising, no," James later added in an interview with ESPN. "I still
understand how race plays a part in America. For me to be here and have to
answer questions about racism, it just lets me know that it's still here, and we
should all know that. If it takes for someone to spray my gate and use that
derogatory term, that hate, on my family to shed a light on what the real issue
is in the world, then so be it."

While James has become a willing megaphone for social causes in the second
decade of his career, he had difficulty processing the potential effect on his
family. The primary source of his consternation, he said, was being away from
his three children, a daughter and two sons.

"The most unfortunate part is that I can't be home right now," James said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              356 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

MS-13 gang targeted in Los Angeles sweep

BYLINE: ALICIA A. CALDWELL The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 429 words


LOS ANGELES - Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement fanned out across
Los Angeles in pre-dawn sweeps, serving arrest and search warrants as part of a
three-year investigation into the ultra- violent street gang MS-13.

Federal prosecutors unsealed a sweeping indictment Wednesday morning charging
dozens of members and leaders of the brutal street gang with a variety of
crimes, including murder.

Acting U.S. Attorney Sandra Brown said the 127-page anti-racketeering indictment
targets 44 members and associates of the gang, including the one-time leader of
a Los Angeles faction of MS-13. Three people accused of murder could face the
death penalty, she said.

Twenty-one people named in the indictment were arrested in pre-dawn raids across
Los Angeles, and Brown said warrants were served at more than 50 locations. Jail
officials around the region also conducted cell searches, as some of those
indicted were already in custody on unrelated charges. About a dozen of those
arrested were so-called "shot callers" for the gang. At least three people were
still at large Wednesday.

"It's one of the largest and most entrenched gangs in Los Angeles," Brown said.
"Today's actions will deal a critical blow to the top leadership."

Brown said MS-13 is responsible for murders of rival gang members, drug and
human trafficking, prostitution and illegal alcohol sales, among other crimes.
She described the racketeering case as one of the largest single cases targeting
MS-13, a gang that started in Los Angeles but has expanded to nearly every state
and El Salvador. The gang is blamed for horrific violence that has sent
Salvadoran immigrants fleeing that country for the United States.

Because of the group's propensity for violence, federal and local agencies used
tactical and SWAT teams to serve some of the warrants, including at a storefront
along a strip of dilapidated buildings near downtown that the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said was being used as a "casita," or sort of
club house, for one group of gang members.

More than half of those arrested and charged in the case are in the country
illegally, Fike said. It was unclear how long they had been in the United States
or what countries they are from.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck and others said the suspects' immigration
status was of little consequence.

"These are criminals. Regardless of their immigration status they are going to
go to prison," Beck said. "If they ever get out...their immigration status may
become an issue, but it has nothing to do with their arrest today."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 15, 2017 Wednesday

ATF Special Agent Honored for Combating Hate & Bigotry by Anti-Defamation League

LENGTH: 698  words

DATELINE: New York



 Frankfort: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives has issued the
following news release:



 The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) conferred the "Helene & Joseph Sherwood Family
Prize for Combating Hate" to three individuals and two law enforcement groups at
an awards ceremony today at the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles.





 The Helene and Joseph Sherwood Prize for Combating Hate recognizes law
enforcement activities during the past two calendar years that demonstrate
relentless dedication to containing and minimizing the prevalence and severity
of hate motivated behavior perpetrated in their communities, and performed with
professionalism, effectiveness and visibility.



 "In the 21 years this prize has been conferred, it has become one of the most
prestigious awards in the law enforcement community," said Chief Rob Handy of
Huntington Beach Police Department, Chair of the Sherwood Prize Selection
Committee.



 "This year's honorees have made creative and effective contributions to the
fight against hate," said Amanda Susskind, Director of ADL's Pacific Southwest
Region.  "Whether they do so by fighting hate-motivated street gangs, monitoring
radicalized terrorist groups, or standing up for the most vulnerable in our
society, they are each making a tangible difference in the security of our
communities."



 ADL will honor Special Agent Alan Hughes as part of the 2017 Group Honorees for
his work in the San Fernando Valley Peckerwoods takedown. Hughes was part of a
task force including personnel from the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office and
the Los Angeles Police Department Major Crimes Division who went above, and
beyond, in their efforts to combat hate.



 Using a holistic approach, ATF, LAPD and LA prosecutors were able to uncover
and remove a stronghold of San Fernando Valley (SFV) Peckerwoods, a known white
supremacist gang accused of involvement in drug and weapons trafficking,
identity theft and other crimes.  This case is significant as activities of hate
groups in Southern California and nationwide have become an increasing concern
in the wake of reported surges in bias incidents and crimes.



 In one incident, a firearm was purchased from Erik Cutshaw, of Canoga Park, a
known associate of the SFV Peckerwoods gang. Cutshaw pleaded to 18 months
incarceration for a felon in possession.



 Late last year, Los Angeles City Attorney Mike Feuer took a series of actions
against Cutshaw's residence and two other SFV Peckerwoods residences. The
locations were alleged bases of operations for SFV Peckerwoods criminal
activity, including illegal gun and drug sales, as well as places to make pipe
bombs, store stolen property, and recruit and train associates in counterfeit
and identity theft. One of the residences was informally abated and two are the
subjects of lawsuits.



 The honorees were selected from many nominations received from throughout
Southern California by the distinguished Sherwood Prize Selection Committee:
Chair, Chief Rob Handy, Huntington Beach Police Department; Chief Jarrod
Burguan, San Bernardino Police Department; Sheriff Geoff Dean, Ventura County
Sheriff's Department; Assistant Director in Charge Deirdre Fike, FBI, Los
Angeles; Assistant Chief Beatrice Girmala, Los Angeles Police Department;
Sheriff William D. Gore, San Diego County Sheriff's Department; Chief Mike
Hamel, Irvine Police Department; Special Agent in Charge Eric Harden, ATF, Los
Angeles; Sheriff Sandra Hutchens, Orange County Sheriff's Department; Chief Lori
Luhnow, Santa Barbara Police Department; Chief Lyle Martin, Bakersfield Police
Department; Sheriff Jim McDonnell, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department;
Chief Chris O'Quinn, California Highway Patrol, Southern Division;  Sheriff Stan
Sniff, Riverside County Sheriff's Department.



 The Sherwood Prize was created in 1996 by Joe and Helene Sherwood, founders of
family owned and operated Daniel's Jewelers, to recognize those in the law
enforcement community that go above and beyond their job descriptions in
combating extremism, bigotry, and hatred.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                              June 19, 2017 Monday
                                  Home Edition

POLITICS WATCH;
Relief for human relations group;
O.C. nonprofit that helps fight hate crimes had faced the loss of funding, but
county officials keep it going.

BYLINE: ANH DO

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 699 words


When the bag of feces arrived at the LGBT Center Orange County, Laura Kanter
knew immediately what to do.

She picked up the phone and called the Orange County Human Relations Council to
talk with Don Han, who deals with hate crimes.

Kanter, as director of policy advocacy and youth services for the LGBT Center in
Santa Ana, recently recalled the disturbing incident that occurred in May. She
said that the council provides an important service in the community.

"We can call the police and I did, and they'll just take a report," she said.
"But I knew we had someone to turn to, and that's what these folks do best. They
look at the bigger picture to create understanding between communities."

Han's nonprofit organization was founded in 1991 in part to raise money and
develop programs overseen by the Orange County Human Relations Commission. The
council works with law enforcement agencies, compiles an annual hate crime
report and provides mediation and violence prevention programs in partnerships
with schools, corporations, cities, foundations and individuals.

"We try to be a voice of reason and listen," Han said, "and we're committed to
getting people from all sides to come together."

The council has raised about $30 million in the last 25 years to support the
county commission's work, according to its website. But until recently the
council was in danger of losing the funding that pays for three members of its
staff, including Han.

For months, county supervisors debated back and forth, threatening to cut the
$252,000 needed to pay for the council's personnel, while the group received an
eviction notice to vacate the county building where it has operated, rent-free,
by July 1.

Meanwhile, the number of reported hate crimes increased to 50 in 2016 from 44
the year before -- with African Americans and the LGBT population as the two
most frequently targeted communities across the county, according to the
council's latest report. This trend, coupled with the fear that Orange County
could lose its human relations advocates, prompted more than 300 supporters to
swarm supervisors' meetings this month, pushing to allow the two groups to
continue their partnership.

Among the proponents praising the groups' anti-bullying, interfaith and
mediation campaigns was Orange County Sheriff Sandra Hutchens, who said, "There
is a lot of fear in our immigrant and LGBTQ communities. This is an important
public safety and quality-of-life issue for us."

The board voted 4 to 1 last week, with Supervisor Michelle Steel dissenting, to
continue funding the council for at least another year. But the panel also urged
the council and commission to stop "co-mingling," with one supervisor noting
that some commission staff members report to the council's director.

Supervisor Andrew Do, the most vocal opponent before the vote, criticized the
confusion between the operations of the council and commission, saying, "It
raises questions about accountability and leaves the board vulnerable to
violations of state public meeting laws.

"The public has to be clear on the two entities. Right now, they're so
intertwined, people don't know who's responsible for what, and as supervisors,
we don't know what's going on at the council, while we're the ones overseeing
the commission that works with them."

On June 6, supervisors deadlocked 2 to 2, with one member absent, on the
personnel funding for the council. Supervisor Todd Spitzer proposed another vote
a week later with the full board present. Do ended up voting to allocate the
money because "the work is still viable," he said. "People around the county
still need a voice."

Spitzer blamed the county for initially pressuring the nonprofit to raise funds
for commission programs at a time when Orange County faced a bankruptcy scandal.

He said the board must choose whether to give money to programs and control its
delivery or allow the nonprofit to continue finding revenue.

Commission and council members promised to meet with county officials to find a
"way to separate our administration and still be effective," said Rusty Kennedy,
the council's chief executive. "We're ecstatic to be able to continue."

--

anh.do@latimes.com

Twitter: @newsterrier

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ORANGE COUNTY Supervisors Todd Spitzer, left, and Andrew Do
debate the future of the Orange County Human Relations Council on June 6.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Mark Boster Los Angeles Times PHOTO: SHERIFF Sandra Hutchens:
"There is a lot of fear in our immigrant and LGBTQ communities. This is an
important public safety and quality-of-life issue for us."  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary
Coronado Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                     October 12, 2017 Thursday 6:02 AM GMT

Harvey Weinstein 'heads to rehab in Arizona' after police respond to 'family
dispute' at his daughter's house;
The disgraced film producer was seen flying out of Van Nuys airport on his way
to an unnamed treatment facility

BYLINE: By Zoe Shenton

SECTION: SHOWBIZ,CELEBRITY NEWS; Version:1

LENGTH: 647 words


Harvey Weinstein has reportedly left Los Angeles and will be checking into a
rehab centre in Arizona as the scandal surrounding the disgraced Hollywood movie
mogul deepens.

TMZ reports that the US movie mogul flew out of Van Nuys airport in a private
jet on Wednesday afternoon.

According to the website, the 65-year-old could be heading to a facility with a
focused sex addiction programme.

Earlier in the day, officers were called after a "family dispute" at the home of
his daughter. The Los Angeles Police Department confirmed they were called to
reports of a "disturbance" at the house but said no crime had been committed.
Weinstein was not there when officers arrived.

An LAPD spokesman said: "At 10.37am Los Angeles Police Department officers
responded to the 500 block of North Kilkea Drive at the house ofHarvey
Weinstein's daughter and were there for a disturbance call.

"Officers arrived and conducted an investigation. It was revealed that there was
no crime and it was a family dispute. Officers then left the scene."

The incident follows a string of sexual harassment allegations being levelled
against Weinstein from women who worked with him.

British actress and supermodel Cara Delevingne was the latest star to speak out
on Wednesday.

She claimed Weinstein made advances towards her in a hotel room after asking her
to kiss another woman.

In a statement posted on Instagram she said she was left feeling "very powerless
and scared" when he invited her to his hotel room.

She said: "I was so hesitant about speaking out....I didn't want to hurt his
family. I felt guilty as if I did something wrong.

"I was also terrified that this sort of thing had happened to so many women I
know but no one had said anything because of fear."

Spectre actress Lea Seydoux also joined the ranks of Harvey Weinstein's
accusers, saying she had to defend herself after the director allegedly jumped
on her and tried to kiss her.

The French actress, who won the Palme d'Or at Cannes for Blue Is The Warmest
Colour, said the movie mogul stared at her "as if I was a piece of meat".

Writing in the Guardian, she said: "We were talking on the sofa when he suddenly
jumped on me and tried to kiss me. I had to defend myself. He's big and fat, so
I had to be forceful to resist him.

"I left his room, thoroughly disgusted. I wasn't afraid of him, though. Because
I knew what kind of man he was all along."

On Tuesday, Weinstein was accused of rape by three women - claims Weinstein
"unequivocally denies" - and his British wifeGeorgina Chapmanannounced she was
leaving him.

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which hosts the Oscars,
described the sexual abuse allegations against the movie mogul as "repugnant"
and "abhorrent" and said on Wednesday that it would be holding a meeting on
Saturday to discuss any action to be taken.

The British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta) also announced it had
suspended his membership, effective immediately.

Rose McGowan, another accuser, called for the board of the Weinstein Company to
be dissolved following the allegations against its co-founder.

The actress, 44, tweeted a link to the campaign on website ipetitions.com and
said: "Join me in supporting this important cause at iPetitions. DISSOLVE THE
BOARD."

Over 10,000 signatures had been added to the petition by Thursday.

Meanwhile, stars across Hollywood have continued to condemn his behaviour.

Ewan McGregor said the film producer was a "bully", Matt Damon said he had been
left "absolutely sick to my stomach" while Ben Affleck added he was "saddened
and angry that a man who I worked with used his position of power to intimidate,
sexually harass and manipulate many women over decades".

Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May also spoke out about the scandal on
Wednesday.

She said the reports were "deeply concerning" as senior politicians called for
Weinstein to be stripped of his CBE.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2017 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
          DONOR: Asian Pacific American Bar Association of Los Angeles
                                     County


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500 - 1,199

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Asian Pacific American Bar Association of Los Angeles County
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              361 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 266 words

ABSTRACT

Blotter for Tuesday, March 21, Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Armed robbery: March 2, 1600 block of East 215th Place.

Strong-arm robbery: Feb. 28, 17900 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Strong-arm robbery: March 6, 1800 block of East Cashdan Street.

Strong-arm robbery: March 7, 23500 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Assault with a deadly weapon: March 2, 405 Freeway and Wilmington Avenue.

Assault with a deadly weapon: March 5, 2900 block of East Dominguez Street.

Residential burglary: March 2, 19400 block of Nestor Avenue.

Burglary: March 4, 2700 block of East Carson Street.

Burglary: March 4, 600 block of East Sepulveda Boulevard.

Burglary: March 5, 600 block of East Alondra Boulevard.

Burglary: March 6, 400 block of East 192nd Street.

Grand theft: March 6, 1600 block of East Cyrene Drive.

Stolen vehicles:

March 6, 2100 block of East Gladwick Street.

March 7, 400 block of West 220th Street.

March 5, 300 block of East Alondra Boulevard.

March 5, 21100 bock of South Main Street.

March 7, 100 block of Civic Plaza Drive.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Stolen vehicles:

March 5, 800 block of West 220th Street.

March 6, 20500 block of South Vermont Avenue.

TORRANCE

New reports were not available for this week's log.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Mary Star instructor faces more allegations;
Police: Teacher made 'inappropriate contact' with kids on tutoring site

BYLINE: Larry Altman; laltman@scng.com @larryaltman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 235 words

ABSTRACT

Teacher arrested follow

FULL TEXT

A teacher at Mary Star of the Sea High School in San Pedro, arrested this week
on suspicion of possession of child pornography, made "inappropriate contact"
with children on a tutoring website, police said Wednesday.

Daniel T. O'Connell, 32, of Rancho Palos Verdes, who was jailed Tuesday,
remained in custody at county jail on $20,000 bail, county records showed.

Investigators have released few details about O'Connell's alleged offenses but
said Wednesday that detectives from the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet
Crimes Against Children unit served a search warrant at his home on Tuesday.

"Investigators initiated the investigation into O'Connell as a result of
information received from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children
that O'Connell was having inappropriate contact with minors that he met while on
a mathematics tutoring website," the LAPD said in a statement.

Police did not release the name of the website.

O'Connell was a long-term substitute teacher at the campus. He taught physics.

On Tuesday, Mary Star Principal Rita Dever sent a letter to parents that said
police had alerted the archdiocese last week that O'Connell was under
investigation. His alleged activities, she said, did not involve Mary Star
students.

Unless O'Connell is released on bail, he would have to be formally charged today
and appear in court for arraignment.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           January 12, 2017 Thursday

Mary Star instructor faces more allegations;
Police: Teacher made 'inappropriate contact' with kids on tutoring site

BYLINE: Larry Altman; laltman@scng.com @larryaltman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 235 words

ABSTRACT

Teacher arrested follow

FULL TEXT

A teacher at Mary Star of the Sea High School in San Pedro, arrested this week
on suspicion of possession of child pornography, made "inappropriate contact"
with children on a tutoring website, police said Wednesday.

Daniel T. O'Connell, 32, of Rancho Palos Verdes, who was jailed Tuesday,
remained in custody at county jail on $20,000 bail, county records showed.

Investigators have released few details about O'Connell's alleged offenses but
said Wednesday that detectives from the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet
Crimes Against Children unit served a search warrant at his home on Tuesday.

"Investigators initiated the investigation into O'Connell as a result of
information received from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children
that O'Connell was having inappropriate contact with minors that he met while on
a mathematics tutoring website," the LAPD said in a statement.

Police did not release the name of the website.

O'Connell was a long-term substitute teacher at the campus. He taught physics.

On Tuesday, Mary Star Principal Rita Dever sent a letter to parents that said
police had alerted the archdiocese last week that O'Connell was under
investigation. His alleged activities, she said, did not involve Mary Star
students.

Unless O'Connell is released on bail, he would have to be formally charged today
and appear in court for arraignment.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             April 25, 2017 Tuesday

Sucker-punched teen's father to testify in support of Assembly bill

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 476 words

ABSTRACT

Ed Peisner to testify at Assembly's Public Safety committee.

FULL TEXT

The West Hills father of a teen who was sucker-punched in the head last year in
an assault captured on video and posted on Snapchat will testify before a state
Assembly committee today on a proposed bill meant to deter such attacks.

Ed Peisner, whose 14-year-old son, Jordan, was seriously injured by a teen he
did not know, will be speaking before the Public Safety committee in Sacramento
on Tuesday in support of Assemblyman Matt Dababneh's bill dubbed "Jordan's Law."
The proposed bill would criminalize social media-motivated attacks.

"My goal is to let my voice be heard as a citizen, as a parent, to bring
awareness to what I believe is becoming an epidemic ..." Peisner said. "Taking
someone's worst moment and making it your very best moment for nothing more than
social media attention is disgusting, alarming and growing at an exponential
rate."

Assembly Bill 1542 would add a year onto a court's sentence for a criminal
felony when the attacker conspires to have an assault filmed. It also would
establish a new felony criminalizing the act of conspiring with an attacker to
take video of the crime.

"Unfortunately, our criminal code has failed to keep up with these
technology-driven social changes," Dababneh, D-Encino, said in a statement.
"This is why Jordan's law is so important; we need to make clear that conspiring
with an attacker to film an attack makes you equally responsible and eligible to
be charged with a crime here in California."

Jordan exited the Wendy's at the Platt Village Shopping Center with two friends
after school on Dec. 2 when a teenage boy approached him from behind and gave
him a "giant right hook" into his right ear, knocking him to the ground,
according to Ed Peisner. Jordan, who had to be airlifted to Children's Hospital
Los Angeles, sustained a large blood clot to the brain, a skull fracture, a
concussion and a ruptured eardrum, he said.

The teen boy arrested by Los Angeles police on suspicion of felony assault
appeared in court for a hearing earlier this month. Prosecutors would not say
what verdict was rendered but Peisner said after the hearing that he "had a
feeling that the punishment was not going to fit the crime."

A teen girl who was arrested for conspiracy in the case was determined to be
"not guilty" by a jury of her peers and a judicial officer in Los Angeles
County's teen court program.

"Knowing she was (found) not guilty, I had a feeling it wasn't going to be a
major punishment to this boy," Peisner said.

But Peisner, who recently launched the #JordanStrong Foundation, said his
mission is to "turn this mess into a message."

The #JordanStrong Foundation, along with the Optimist Blind Youth Association,
is sponsoring the first annual Peace and Kindness Festival in Canoga Park from 9
a.m. to 3 p.m. on May 20.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Court sees access to license-plate data as possible

BYLINE: Sudhin Thanawala; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words

ABSTRACT

The California Supreme Court has ruled that there may be ways to require the
release of data collected by automated license plate readers

FULL TEXT

It would violate people's privacy to publicly release raw data collected by
automated license plate readers that police use to determine whether vehicles
are linked to crime, but there may be ways to make the information anonymous
that would require it to be disclosed, the California Supreme Court said
Thursday.

The ruling came in a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union and
Electronic Frontier Foundation that sought a week's worth of license plate data
- millions of records - from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and Los
Angeles Police Department to "understand and educate the public on the risks to
privacy posed" by license plate readers in the area.

A unanimous Supreme Court ordered a lower court to consider methods to make the
data anonymous and determine whether any of those efforts would require its
release.

Jennifer Lehman, assistant county counsel for Los Angeles County, said in a
statement that the county was "concerned that even making the information
anonymous could pose unique and unintended problems."

She said it would raise those concerns in detail when the case is heard again by
the lower court.

A message to the Los Angeles city attorney was not immediately returned.

Law enforcement agencies nationwide are using license plate readers attached to
patrol cars and objects such as traffic signals. The devices indiscriminately
capture images of license plates that come into view. The information is passed
through databases to instantly check whether the car or driver has been linked
to crime.

Officials say the scans are useful in tracking stolen vehicles, missing children
and people wanted by police. For instance, authorities chasing a suspect in a
fatal shooting at Delta State University in Mississippi in 2015 used an
automatic license plate reader to track the man as he traveled across state
lines.

Privacy advocates say the systems overwhelmingly capture innocent drivers,
recording information about their locations that could be used to track their
habits and whereabouts.

The ACLU and Electronic Frontier Foundation said the agencies hold the data for
years, allowing officers to use it in future investigations.

The state Supreme Court rejected a lower court's decision that the scans are
part of law enforcement investigations, and therefore exempt from disclosure.

The justices said the scans were "not conducted as part of a targeted inquiry
into any particular crime or crimes."

"It is hard to imagine that the Legislature intended for the
records-of-investigations exemption to reach the large volume of data that plate
scanners and other similar technologies now enable agencies to collect
indiscriminately," Associate Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.

Peter Bibring, a senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Southern California, said
that part of the ruling was key.

"The court recognized that technology does make a difference and the exemption
for police investigations wasn't intended to encompass the kind of
indiscriminate collection of information that license plate readers make
possible today," he said.

Bibring said the ACLU wants to see whether law enforcement agencies in Los
Angeles are focusing license plate readers on lower-income communities of color
or communities of a particular religious persuasion.

The court, however, said the raw data would fall into a catchall exemption under
the state's Public Records Act that allows agencies not to disclose records when
the public interest in not releasing them clearly outweighs the interest in
disclosing them. But the justices strongly signaled there were ways to redact
the data to avoid that concern and sent the case back to a lower court.

Bibring said he was confident the lower court would be able to release the
information in some form "that sheds light on how police actually use license
plate readers and the privacy impacts of this surveillance program."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2017 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday

California mother pleads for missing 5-year-old boy's safe return

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 133 words



HIGHLIGHT: The mother of a 5-year-old missing from Southern California for
nearly a month is begging for her son's safe return.


By MICHAEL BALSAMO

LOS ANGELES - The mother of a 5-year-old missing from Southern California for
nearly a month is begging for her son's safe return.

Ana Estevez joined Los Angeles sheriff's officials Wednesday in making a public
plea for Aramazd Andressian Jr. to be reunited with his family.

Authorities say the boy was last seen with his father, Aramazd Andressian Sr.,
at Disneyland on April 20.

The boy was reported missing after his father was found in a South Pasadena park
on April 22. Sheriff's officials revealed Wednesday the father took prescription
pills and was found in a car doused in gasoline.

The father was initially arrested on suspicion of child endangerment but later
released.

Sheriff's Lt. Joe Mendoza says the boy's father is still a "person of interest"
in his son's disappearance.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              May 15, 2017 Monday

Man fatally shot at family gathering Would-be robbers fire shots at victims Fire
rips through furniture store

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 494 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Monday, May 15, 2017.

FULL TEXT

A man died after he was shot outside a family gathering in West Whittier on
Saturday night, authorities said.

The deadly shooting was reported about 7:55 p.m. in the10300 block of Lock Avon
Drivein the unincorporated county area, according to Deputy Kimberly Alexander
of the Los Angeles County sheriff's Information Bureau.

The victim, described as a 30-year-old man, was attending a family gathering
when the shooting took place, Deputy Juanita Navarro-Suarez said in awritten
statement.

"The victim was standing in the front driveway of the residence when he was shot
in the upper torso by an unknown assailant," she said.

He succumbed to his injuries several hours later at a hospital, officials said.

"Although witnesses reported hearing two gunshots, there is no suspect
description at this time," Navarro-Suarez said.

No further details were available.

The victim's identity was not released Sunday pending positive identification
and notification of family by the Los Angeles County Department of Medical
Examiner-Coroner.

Anyone with information is urged to call the sheriff's Homicide Bureau at
323-890-5500. Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime
Stoppersat 800-222-8477.

A man and woman fought off two would-be robbers and briefly chased after them
before one of the fleeing bandits fired gunshots at them, but missed, in Uptown
Whittier late Saturday, police said.

The crime unfolded shortly after 8:15 p.m. in the parking lot of the DoubleTree
by Hilton,7320 Greenleaf Avenue., Whittier police Lt. Bryan Ellis said.

A man and woman in their 20s were in the parking lot when two men approached
them and demanded property from the woman, he said.

The intended victims were able to fight off the men and chased after the fleeing
crooks as they ran through a nearby parking structure, according to the
lieutenant.

"One of the suspects turned around and fired two shots," Ellis said. The bullets
did not strike the victims.

The attackers were last seen exiting the parking structure and fleeing down
Bright Avenue, he said. A detailed suspect description was not available. Anyone
with information can reach Whittier police at 562-567-9200. Tips may also be
submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat 800-222-8477.

It took Los Angeles County firefighters an hour to put out a two-alarm blaze in
a Temple City furniture store Saturday night, authorities said.

It was reported at 10:30 p.m. at 10946 Grand Avenue, according to Los Angeles
County Fire Department Dispatch Supervisor Robert Diaz.

The store was fully involved in flames when firefighters arrived, Diaz said.
There was a partial collapse of one wall and firefighters opted to go into
defensive mode, fighting the flames from outside and protecting neighboring
structures.

The flames were out at 11:29 p.m., he said. No injuries were reported.

The cause of the fire was under investigation, Diaz said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             hollywoodreporter.com

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

L.A. Sheriff's Department Offers Apology to Wyclef Jean for Detainment Over
Mistaken Identity

BYLINE: Ryan Parker

SECTION: NEWS; TAG

LENGTH: 495  words


The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department offered an apology to Wyclef Jean on
Tuesday afternoon, hours after he was handcuffed and briefly detained near a Los
Angeles recording studio in a case of mistaken identity.


The singer, songwriter and occasional actor posted video on social media of
himself being detained, which included the comment, "LAPD another case of
mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas station as I was in
the studio working but I'm in handcuffs?"


Jean has more than 4.2 million social media followers.


It was actually deputies with the West Hollywood division of the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department who stopped Jean. LAPD confirmed their officers were
not involved.


"It is unfortunate that Mr. Jean was detained for six minutes during this
investigation, as he had no involvement whatsoever in this violent crime," the
sheriff's department said in a lengthy statement, which also detailed the crime.
"The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is apologetic for any inconvenience
this process caused Mr. Jean."


Jean criticized authorities not long after the incident over how he said he as
treated.


"I was asked by the police to put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I
was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself," Jean tweeted
in an additional post. "As some one who has law enforcers in my family, I was
appalled by this behavior of the LAPD."


The sheriff's department said deputies "are frequently required to make lawful
detentions, under the strict parameters provided by law, in the interest of
catching often dangerous and armed suspects in our communities and keeping the
public safe."


The suspects authorities were looking for were apprehended, according to the
department's statement.


"Since this writing, neither Mr. Jean nor his representatives have personally
contacted the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, the actual agency whose
deputies reasonably and lawfully detained him," the sheriff's department wrote.


See Jean's tweets and full police statement below:

LAPD another case of mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas
station as I was in the studio working but im in handcuffs?
pic.twitter.com/vjRfJUkooA- Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017I was asked by
the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand
cuffed before being asked to identify myself- Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21,
2017They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other
police showed up and pointed out they had wrong person.- Wyclef Jean (@wyclef)
March 21, 2017I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in
Handcuffs especially if he is innocent.- Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017As
some one who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by this behavior of
the LAPD.- Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017



12:04 p.m.This posted has been updated with a statement from the L.A. County
Sheriff's Department.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ONLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2017 Prometheus Global Media, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           September 26, 2017 Tuesday

LA Rams defensive end Ethan Westbrooks arrested on felony gun charges

BYLINE: Vincent Bonsignore

LENGTH: 340 words



HIGHLIGHT: Los Angeles Rams defensive end Ethan Westbrooks is facing five felony
gun charges after getting arrested over the weekend in Bakersfield.


Los Angeles Rams defensive end Ethan Westbrooks is facing five felony gun
charges after getting arrested over the weekend in Bakersfield.

Westbrooks was pulled over Friday night for speeding by the California Highway
Patrol, at which point the officer found a loaded gun in Westbrooks car.  A
subsequent check revealed the gun was reported stolen in 2009.

Both are felony offenses.

Upon being arrested and booked, Westbrooks was charged with five counts:
Carrying a loaded firearm, receiving known stolen property, carrying a loaded
stolen weapon, grand theft of a firearm and possessing a high-capacity large
magazine.

His arraignment is scheduled for Oct. 5.

Its just a bad situation, Westbrooks said.

The Rams had no immediate statement to Westbooks arrest. The 3-year veteran from
West Texas A&M was released on bail and was back with the Rams for practice on
Monday in Thousand Oaks.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area
and beyond.

Westbrooks declined to provide any further details.

Its a legal matter so I cant really talk about it, Westbrooks said.

Westbrooks said he was looking forward to clearing his name, but when asked if
he believed the ultimate outcome would be favorable, he said: I honestly cant
say. I dont know.

Stay up to date on breaking news with our mobile app from the Apple app store
or the Google Play store.

Westbrooks said he spoke about the matter with Rams coach Sean McVay, but that
there was no indication from the team whether hed play Sunday against the
Cowboys in Dallas.

Its the second brush with the law for Westbrooks in less than a year. He was
arrested last March on suspicion of domestic violence in Sacramento, although
the Sacramento County district attorney declined to file charges.

Westbrooks, a native of Oakland, attended Franklin High in El Grove and later
San Joaquin and Sacramento City Colleges before ending up at West Texas A&M,
where he earned Lone Star Conference Defensive Lineman of the Year in 2012.

Staff writer Ryan Kartje contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Los Angeles

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 117  words


LOS ANGELES - Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement fanned out across
Los Angeles in pre-dawn sweeps, serving arrest and search warrants as part of a
three-year investigation into the street gang MS-13.

Federal prosecutors unsealed a sweeping indictment Wednesday  charging dozens of
members and leaders of the  gang with a variety of crimes.

Acting U.S. Attorney Sandra Brown said the 127-page anti-racketeering indictment
targets 44 members and associates of the gang. Three people accused of murder
could face the death penalty, she said.

Twenty-one people named in the indictment were arrested in pre-dawn raids across
Los Angeles and Brown said warrants were served at more than 50 locations.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Burbank Leader (Glendale, California)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Los Angeles man suspected of multiple Southland burglaries, including two in
Burbank

BYLINE: Andy Nguyen, Burbank Leader, Glendale, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


Aug. 09--A Los Angeles man is said to be responsible for robbing several
businesses across the Southland, including two in Burbank, according to
authorities.

Douglas Arevalo-Alvarado, 40, was arrested in Orange County on July 28 after
being caught burglarizing a Fountain Valley jewelry store. Sgt. Derek Green, a
spokesman for the Burbank Police Department, said Arevalo-Alvarado had been
wanted in connection with several burglaries in Los Angeles, Orange and San
Bernardino counties.

He said the burglaries were determined to be part of a widespread crime ring.

According to Green, Arevalo-Alvarado is also behind the July 7 theft of $90,000
in merchandise from the Luxmary Handbags store on West Magnolia Boulevard in
Burbank.

Police were able to link him to the multiple burglaries through a car he
allegedly used during each one.

Watches recovered by police that were stolen from the Toluca Watch Co. in June.

With Arevalo-Alvarado in custody, Burbank police conducted a search of a
Hollywood storage unit in his name. Green said detectives discovered evidence
linking him to the crimes including handbags from Luxmary as well as multiple
watches stolen from the Toluca Watch Co. on West Riverside Drive in Burbank in
June.

He's currently charged with two counts of burglary, with several other charges
pending.

Arevalo-Alvarado is being held in lieu of $500,000 bail and is scheduled to
appear in court on Aug. 17.

andy.nguyen@latimes.com

Twitter: @Andy_Truc

___ (c)2017 the Burbank Leader (Glendale, Calif.) Visit the Burbank Leader
(Glendale, Calif.) at www.burbankleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170809-1BU-Los-Angeles
-man-suspected-of-multiple-Southland-burglaries-including-two-in-Burbank-0809-20
170809

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1BU


                         Copyright 2017 Burbank Leader


                              372 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1044 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, Feb. 28, Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

           CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Assault: Feb. 9, 600 block of East Carson Plaza Drive.

Assault: Feb. 11, 100 block of East 230th Street.

Residential burglary: Feb. 9, 500 block of West 218th Street.

Residential burglary: Feb. 11, 17700 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Residential burglary: Feb. 11, 500 block of East Pacific Street.

Residential burglary: Feb. 14, 21000 block of Santa Fe Avenue.

Burglary: Feb. 9, 22900 block of South Wilmington Avenue.

Burglary: Feb. 11, 100 block of East Carson Street.

Grand theft: Feb. 11, 300 block of East 230th Street.

Grand theft: Feb. 13, 20700 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Stolen vehicle:

Feb. 9, 300 block of East Lincoln Street.

Feb. 11, 20700 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Feb. 11, 800 block of East Walnut Street.

Feb. 12, 1500 block of East Helmick Street.

Feb. 12, 228th and Main streets.

Feb. 12, 223rd and Catskill streets.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Assault: Feb. 11, Normandie Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.

Burglary: Feb. 9, 24100 block of South Vermont Avenue.

Burglary: Feb. 10, 1000 block of West Carson Street.

Stolen vehicle:

Feb. 12, 22000 block of South Vermont Avenue.

TORRANCE

Armed robbery: 2:40-2:46 p.m. Feb. 13, 20700 block of Hawthorne Boulevard.
Someone entered an open business, requested merchandise to purchase, exposed a
gun in his waistband and fled. Laptop computers were reported stolen.

Strong-arm robbery: 5:10 a.m. Feb. 15, Cabrillo Avenue and Carson Street.
Someone forcibly took the victim's keys and used them to take her vehicle.

Battery: 9:10 p.m. Feb. 13, Carson Street and Crenshaw Boulevard. Someone shot a
person sitting on a bus bench with a pellet gun, causing injury.

Battery: 5-5:18 p.m. Feb. 13, 5500 block of Towers Street. Someone repeatedly
punched the victim in the face, head, chest and stomach.

Battery: 5 a.m. Feb. 12, 4100 block of Torrance Boulevard. Someone kicked the
victim in the leg.

Battery: 11:50 p.m. Feb. 12, Western Avenue and Torrance Boulevard. Someone
fired a pellet gun at the victim, causing injury. The victim's condition was not
given.

Battery: 3:20 p.m. Feb. 12, Sepulveda Boulevard and Arlington Avenue. Someone
fired a pellet gun at the victim, causing injury. The victim's condition was not
given.

Residential burglary: 9 p.m. Feb. 18 to 6 a.m. Feb. 19, 3300 block of 183rd
Street. An unlocked garage was ransacked. A safe and tools were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 5 p.m. Feb. 16 to unknown time Feb. 17, 3500 block of
Torrance Boulevard. Unknown means of entry into a hotel room. Money was reported
stolen.

Residential burglary: 11:57 a.m. to 12:12 p.m. Feb. 15, 18000 block of Cordary
Avenue. A window was smashed. The location was ransacked. A tablet, laptop
computers and a watch were reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 9:50-10 a.m. Feb. 13, 500 block of Palos Verdes Boulevard.
An unspecified number of people tried to enter a residence via a sliding glass
door before they were confronted by a resident. No entry made; no loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 3:27 a.m. Feb. 18, 2000 block of Carson Street. A window
was smashed for entry. No loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 9:30 a.m. Feb. 18, 17400 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A
glass door was smashed. A safe and money were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 11:20 p.m. Feb. 17 to 12:25 a.m. Feb. 18, 23100 block of
Madison Street. Wheels and tires were reported stolen from a vehicle.

Commercial burglary: 10 p.m. Feb. 15 to 8:30 a.m. Feb. 16, 2200 block of
Sepulveda Boulevard. A door was pried for entry. Money was reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 4:30 p.m. Feb. 14, 18400 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2016
Buick Verano.

Commercial burglary: 4:25-5:20 a.m. Feb. 14, 3100 block of 190th Street. A lock
was cut. Tools were reported stolen from a storage container.

Commercial burglary: 8:30 p.m. Feb. 13 to 8:20 a.m. Feb. 14, 1800 block of
Carson Street. A glass door was smashed. The interior was ransacked. No loss
reported.

Theft: 9:25-9:30 a.m. Feb. 18, 3500 block of Carson Street. An unattended
drawstring bag, cellphone and chargers were reported stolen.

Theft: 3-5 p.m. Feb. 17, 1400 block of Marcelina Avenue. An unattended laptop
computer was reported stolen.

Theft: 2 p.m. Feb. 17 to 7:24 p.m. Feb. 19, 3900 block of 238th Street. A
bicycle was reported stolen from a parking garage.

Theft: 9:45 a.m. Feb. 17, 2800 block of 235th Street. A license plate was
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 10-10:10 p.m. Feb. 13, 3600 block of Fashion Way. Bicycles were reported
stolen from a parking garage.

Theft: 5:50-6:10 p.m. Feb. 13, 1700 block of Carson Street. A tailgate was
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 5 p.m. Feb. 13 to 11:30 a.m. Feb. 14, 17500 block of Elgar Avenue. A
license plate was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 6:45-7:40 p.m. Feb. 12, 3500 block of Carson Street. Locks were defeated
on multiple lockers. Money was reported stolen.

Theft: 11:47 a.m. Feb. 12, 4200 block of Pacific Coast Highway. Someone claimed
the victim's lost cellphone as his/her own.

Theft: 11:21 a.m. Feb. 12, 2800 block of 235th Street. An unattended cellphone
was reported stolen from a desk.

Stolen vehicle:

9 p.m. Feb. 17 to 7 a.m. Feb. 18, 16100 block of Van Ness Avenue. 2005 Nissan
Sentra.

3:20 a.m. Feb. 16, 2400 block of Torrance Boulevard. 1998 Chevrolet Camaro.

5 p.m. Feb. 15 to 9:29 a.m. Feb. 17, 4100 block of 182nd Street. 1996 Honda
Accord.

3:29 p.m. Feb. 14 to 12:47 p.m. Feb. 15, 18400 block of Hawthorne Boulevard.
2017 Chevrolet Camaro.

7:30-10 a.m. Feb. 14, 3300 block of Lomita Boulevard. 1991 Honda Civic.

5 a.m. to 5 p.m. Feb. 14, 4100 block of 182nd Street. 2012 Leike
motorcycle/scooter.

4:30 p.m. Feb. 12 to 9:30 a.m. Feb. 13, 4400 block of 186th Street. 1998 Ford
Ranger.

10:45 a.m. to 7:10 p.m. Feb. 12, 21800 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2003 GMC
Denali.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            September 1, 2017 Friday

Man guilty of kidnapping his ex Police to hold checkpoint on Friday DUI/driver's
license checkpoint set Traffic stop leads to weapons arrest

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 626 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, Sept. 2, 2017.

FULL TEXT

A jury convicted a Los Angeles man on Thursday of attacking, threatening and
kidnapping his ex-girlfriend in Duarte in May, authorities said.

The Alhambra jury found Albert Casillas, 38, guilty of kidnapping, domestic
violence and making criminal threats following a four-day trial, Los Angeles
County District Attorney's Office spokesman Ricardo Santiago said in a written
statement.

He faces up to 24 years and four months in state prison when he returns to the
Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County Superior Court on Sept. 28.

"Casillas went to his ex-girlfriend's Duarte home and, while in front of the
woman's residence, forced her into his vehicle and threatened to hurt her if she
got out," Santiago said. Casillas then drove the victim from the kidnapping
scene at Millbrae and Central avenues to his home in East Los Angeles.

A witness reported the abduction, and deputies arrived to find the woman
suffering from injuries to her body, Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John
McClure said at the time.

The woman told deputies she had not been the victim of any crime, but deputies
arrested Casillas based on her injuries and the accounts of witnesses, McClure
said. The jury convicted Casillas of all three crimes with which he was charged.

Police in Pasadena are planning to hold a sobriety and driver's licence
checkpoint, as well as keep an extra eye out for red light violations, on Friday
ahead of Labor Day weekend, authorities said.

The checkpoint will be held from 7 p.m. Friday to 3 a.m. Saturday and an
undisclosed spot within the city, Pasadena police Lt. Diego Torres said in a
written statement.

Additionally, Pasadena police also plan special enforcement throughout the day,
with an emphasis on red light violators, according to Torres. Funding for both
operations is being provided by a grant from the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, through the California Office of Traffic Safety.

Police will be keeping an eye out for drunken and drug-impaired drivers and
checking driver's licenses during a checkpoint in the city next week.

The checkpoint will be held from 8:30 p.m. Friday, Sept. 8 to 3 a.m. Saturday,
Sept. 9. Monrovia police did not indicate where in the city officers would set
up the checkpoint.

For the past three years, DUI-related collisions in the city have resulted in 35
crashes where 48 people were injured, according to Monrovia police in a
statement. The checkpoint is funded by a grant from the California Office of
Traffic Safety, through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

Deputies who approached a man for a traffic violation last week ended up
arresting him after discovering he had with him loaded handguns, a shotgun, an
expandable baton, pepper spray, a security guard badge and his brother's ID in
Rowland Heights, officials said.

Alejandro Raygoza, 25, of La Verne was arrested on suspicion of possession of
concealed, loaded weapons during the incident, which unfolded about 8:20 a.m.
Aug. 24 along Fairway Drive near the 60 Freeway, Los Angeles County sheriff's
officials said Thursday in a written statement.

Deputies first approached a car after noticing it was impeding traffic,
according to the statement. As they spoke with the driver, they noticed he had a
handgun holstered on his waist.

"The driver claimed to be a security guard and handed the deputies an ID," the
statement said. "When the deputies questioned the driver about the ID they
discovered he had handed them his brother's ID and he is not licensed to carry
firearms."

Inside the car, deputies found an additional handgun, a shotgun and the other
items, authorities said. It was not clear why the suspect was driving around
with the weapons.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      November 10, 2017 Friday 2:22 AM GMT

LA prosecutor enlists taskforce to probe 'widespread' Hollywood sex abuse
claims;
The group of "veteran" criminal experts will assess any cases handed to
prosecutors by police.

SECTION: NEWS; Version:1

LENGTH: 268 words


Los Angeles' chief prosecutor has launched a taskforce to handle "widespread"
allegations of sex abuse in the entertainment industry.

The group of "veteran sex crimes prosecutors" has been established to analyse
cases handed to them by the Los Angeles and Beverly Hills police departments to
see if charges should be brought.

The LAPD and Beverly Hills Police Department are among four forces, including
the Metropolitan Police in Britain, investigating claims made by multiple women
against movie mogul Harvey Weinstein.

Prosecutors are yet to receive any cases from law enforcement agencies, although
prosecutors are "in communication" with LAPD and Beverly Hills officials, LA
district attorney Jackie Lacey said.

"In response to the widespread allegations of sexual abuse in the entertainment
industry, I have established a taskforce of specially trained deputy district
attorneys who are ready to evaluate these cases if any are referred to my office
for criminal prosecution," she said in a statement.

"I have assigned the group of veteran sex crimes prosecutors to work together to
ensure a uniformed approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any
case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."

In the UK, the Met is investigating 11 separate allegations of sexual abuse by
Weinstein from seven different women.

The force is also probing a claim against Hollywood star Kevin Spacey made by a
man over an alleged sexual assault in Lambeth, London, in 2008.

The Crown Prosecution Service normally reviews any evidence to deem if an
individual has a case to answer.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2017 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                      November 10, 2017 Friday 3:18 AM GMT

LA prosecutors launch task force to handle "widespread allegations of sexual
abuse" in Hollywood;
The group has been established to analyse cases handed to them by the LA and
Beverly Hills police departments to see if charges should be brought

BYLINE: By Ryan Wilkinson

SECTION: SHOWBIZ,US GOSSIP; Version:1

LENGTH: 263 words


Prosecutors in Los Angeles have launched a taskforce to handle "widespread"
allegations of sex abuse in the entertainment industry.

Cases from the Los Angeles and Beverly Hills police departments will be handed
to the group of "veteran sex crimes prosecutors" to see if charges should be
brought.

The LAPD and Beverly Hills Police Department are among four forces, including
the Metropolitan Police in Britain, investigating claims made by multiple women
against movie mogul Harvey Weinstein.

Prosecutors are yet to receive any cases from law enforcement agencies, although
prosecutors are "in communication" with LAPD and Beverly Hills officials, LA
district attorney Jackie Lacey said.

"In response to the widespread allegations of sexual abuse in the entertainment
industry, I have established a taskforce of specially trained deputy district
attorneys who are ready to evaluate these cases if any are referred to my office
for criminal prosecution," she said in a statement.

"I have assigned the group of veteran sex crimes prosecutors to work together to
ensure a uniformed approach to the legal review and possible prosecution of any
case that meets both the legal and factual standards for criminal prosecution."

In the UK, the Met is investigating 11 separate allegations of sexual abuse by
Weinstein from seven different women.

The force is also probing a claim against Hollywood star Kevin Spacey made by a
man over an alleged sexual assault in Lambeth, London, in 2008.

The Crown Prosecution Service normally reviews any evidence to deem if an
individual has a case to answer.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2017 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           September 17, 2017 Sunday

L.A. law enforcement supports 'sanctuary state' bill

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 652 words

ABSTRACT

Sanctuary support

FULL TEXT

With Gov. Jerry Brown expected to sign Senate Bill 54 to make California a
so-called sanctuary state, local law enforcement officials on Saturday expressed
support and cautious optimism for the measure that would provide protections for
illegal immigrants.

"SB 54 recognizes what has worked in Los Angeles for nearly four decades," Los
Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said. "We have reduced crime by building
strong partnerships with our communities, regardless of civil immigration
status.

"We are committed to reducing crime through community partnerships and
constitutional policing and SB 54 enables us to continue abiding by these
effective principles," Beck said.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell said the revised bill will preserve his
department's ability to maintain partnerships with federal law enforcement in
the fight against gangs, drugs and human trafficking.

"I strongly opposed SB 54 as initially introduced, because I viewed it as a
threat to public safety," McDonnell said Saturday. "... SB 54, as passed by the
Legislature, is a very different bill today.

"Thanks to the leadership of Governor Brown and his staff and members of the
state Senate and Assembly, we can move beyond the bill's early false premise
that local enforcement was going to act as immigration agents. This is
fundamentally not true."

The bill, known as the California Values Act, provides protections for
immigrants who are in the country illegally, but also was altered recently at
the request of Brown to give local law enforcement more freedom to work with
federal immigration officials and to hold individuals for federal authorities if
they have been convicted of a felony or some other serious crimes.

"SB 54 clearly reflects what is working in Los Angeles County and the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department," McDonnell said. "While not perfect, SB 54
kept intact our ability to maintain partnerships with federal law enforcement
officials who help us in the fight against gangs, drugs and human trafficking.
It also retains the controlled access that the United States Immigration and
Customs Enforcement has to our jails."

The bill, authored by Sen. Kevin de Leon of Los Angeles, passed the state Senate
on a final vote Saturday of 27-11.

It was introduced in reaction to President Donald Trump's actions and speech on
illegal immigration, including a vow to increase deportations. Trump also has
threatened to cut off federal funding to "sanctuary" jurisdictions - although
there is no legal definition of the term - which limit cooperation with the
federal government on immigration enforcement.

Declaring a "sanctuary" city or state has become a way to openly defy Trump.

While many cities - including San Francisco and Santa Ana - have declared
themselves sanctuary cities, Oregon is the only state that has taken on the
identity, doing so in 1987.

On Friday, a federal judge in Chicago blocked the Trump administration's rules
requiring so-called sanctuary cities to cooperate with immigration agents to get
a public safety grant.

U.S. District Judge Harry Leinenweber ruled that the city of Chicago has shown a
"likelihood of success' in its arguments that the administration exceeded its
authority in imposing new standards governing Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
Assistance Grants across the country. Leinenweber's preliminary injunction
applies nationwide, not just to Chicago.

U.S. Attorney Gen. Jeff Sessions has defended the new policies as necessary to
help fight illegal immigration.

"So-called 'sanctuary' policies make all of us less safe because they
intentionally undermine our laws and protect illegal aliens who have committed
crimes," Sessions said when he announced the new guidelines in July. "These
policies also encourage illegal immigration and even human trafficking by
perpetuating the lie that in certain cities, illegal aliens can live outside the
law."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Wide lessons from Valley College hack

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB. Susan's edit on Valley College hacking.

FULL TEXT

Extortion is an old crime with a fresh new look thanks to international
cyber-criminals. They've made a billion-dollar enterprise out of kidnapping
valuable data by encrypting it, and then demanding a ransom in exchange for a
digital key that restores the computer files to normal.

Los Angeles Valley College was victimized over the holidays. Faculty and staff
found themselves locked out of their computers just as students were arriving
for the first day of the new semester. The campus newspaper reported that a
ransom note demanding $28,000 appeared on the screens of some of the affected
computers, warning that unless the money was sent within seven days - in
bitcoin, a digital currency that's difficult to trace - the data would be
permanently lost.

Los Angeles Community College District Chancellor Francisco Rodriguez said he
consulted with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts before agreeing to pay
the ransom. The college is now in the process of unlocking each of the encrypted
files with the digital key the hackers supplied after they collected the money.

The plague of ransomware, as security experts call it, is not new, but the wide
use of smartphones and tablets has opened new vulnerabilities for hackers to
target. Computers and networks can be infected when an unsuspecting person
receives an email that appears to be from a legitimate source but contains a
link to malicious code. When the link is clicked, the virus encrypts all the
files on the computer, freezes the screen and sometimes blasts out a jangling
warning with a demand for cash.

Police in London recently warned schools that hackers are posing as government
officials and calling school offices to get contact information for head
teachers, who are then targeted with authentic-looking emails that link to
ransomware.

Individuals may be targeted for a few hundred dollars, but businesses, schools
and hospitals have been hit for much more. In February, Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center paid $17,000 - in bitcoin - to restore access to patient files.

To resist attacks, cybersecurity experts recommend regular procedures for
backing up files, keeping the backups separate from the network, and training
staff members to recognize suspicious emails.

That's a better solution than paying ransom.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Wide lessons from Valley College hack

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB. Susan's edit on Valley College hacking.

FULL TEXT

Extortion is an old crime with a fresh new look thanks to international
cyber-criminals. They've made a billion-dollar enterprise out of kidnapping
valuable data by encrypting it, and then demanding a ransom in exchange for a
digital key that restores the computer files to normal.

Los Angeles Valley College was victimized over the holidays. Faculty and staff
found themselves locked out of their computers just as students were arriving
for the first day of the new semester. The campus newspaper reported that a
ransom note demanding $28,000 appeared on the screens of some of the affected
computers, warning that unless the money was sent within seven days - in
bitcoin, a digital currency that's difficult to trace - the data would be
permanently lost.

Los Angeles Community College District Chancellor Francisco Rodriguez said he
consulted with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts before agreeing to pay
the ransom. The college is now in the process of unlocking each of the encrypted
files with the digital key the hackers supplied after they collected the money.

The plague of ransomware, as security experts call it, is not new, but the wide
use of smartphones and tablets has opened new vulnerabilities for hackers to
target. Computers and networks can be infected when an unsuspecting person
receives an email that appears to be from a legitimate source but contains a
link to malicious code. When the link is clicked, the virus encrypts all the
files on the computer, freezes the screen and sometimes blasts out a jangling
warning with a demand for cash.

Police in London recently warned schools that hackers are posing as government
officials and calling school offices to get contact information for head
teachers, who are then targeted with authentic-looking emails that link to
ransomware.

Individuals may be targeted for a few hundred dollars, but businesses, schools
and hospitals have been hit for much more. In February, Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center paid $17,000 - in bitcoin - to restore access to patient files.

To resist attacks, cybersecurity experts recommend regular procedures for
backing up files, keeping the backups separate from the network, and training
staff members to recognize suspicious emails.

That's a better solution than paying ransom.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Track coachaccused of inappropriate contact with student

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

SAN GABRIEL >> Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach
and 1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday suspicion of contacting a student
with the intent of committing a sex crime, officials said.

FULL TEXT

SAN GABRIEL >> Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach
and 1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday on suspicion of contacting a student
for the purpose of engaging in inappropriate contact with a student, officials
said.

Danny Lee Harris, 51 of Pasadena, was arrested shortly after noon, according to
San Gabriel Police officials and Los Angeles County booking records.

He has been relieved of his duties with the San Gabriel Unified School District
as a coach since May 17, at the outset of the investigation, San Gabriel Police
Lt. Riki Nakamura said.

The walk-on assistant track and field coachwon a silver medalin the 400-meter
hurdles during the 1984 Summer Olympic Games in Los Angeles, and alsofamously
ended the decade-long winning streak of Edwin Mosesin 1987. He has been profiled
many times for his struggles to overcome adversity and addiction as he rose to
athletic fame, most recently in the 2016 documentary film "Crossing the Line."

Harris was born in Torrance but grew up in Perris. He was a track standout at
Perris High School, specializing in hurdles.

Harris won three straight CIF Southern Section titles in the 300-meter hurdles
and two CIF-SS titles in the 110-meter hurdles. He capped his track career at
Perris by winning the 300 hurdles at the 1983 CIF State Championships. Harris
also was a star wide receiver on the school's football team.

Harris is accused of contacting a female student at the school with intent to
commit a sex crime, San Gabriel police officials said in a statement. The
communications were in an electronic format. Investigators declined to discuss
any additional specifics of the case.

"The police department has been working closely with the San Gabriel Unified
School District following a report of alleged inap

propriate contacts between the walk-on athletic coach and a district student,"
according to the police statement.

The Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services was notified
of the investigation.

Police took Harris into custody without a struggle, Nakamura said.

No further details were released Friday. Investigators are continuing to seek
potential additional victims, Nakamura said.

"The school district and the police department are working together to ensure
the safety of students remains of utmost importance," the police statement said.
"We will continue to work closely together as this issue moves forward."

San Gabriel Unified School District officials were not available to comment on
Friday.

According to Los Angeles County booking records, Harris was being held in lieu
of $150,000 bail at the Alhambra Police Department's jail pending his initial
court appearance, scheduled Tuesday in the Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County
Superior Court.

Anyone with information is urged to contact San Gabriel police at 626-308-2828.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Track coachaccused of inappropriate contact with student

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

SAN GABRIEL >> Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach
and 1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday suspicion of contacting a student
with the intent of committing a sex crime, officials said.

FULL TEXT

SAN GABRIEL >> Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach
and 1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday on suspicion of contacting a student
for the purpose of engaging in inappropriate contact with a student, officials
said.

Danny Lee Harris, 51 of Pasadena, was arrested shortly after noon, according to
San Gabriel Police officials and Los Angeles County booking records.

He has been relieved of his duties with the San Gabriel Unified School District
as a coach since May 17, at the outset of the investigation, San Gabriel Police
Lt. Riki Nakamura said.

The walk-on assistant track and field coachwon a silver medalin the 400-meter
hurdles during the 1984 Summer Olympic Games in Los Angeles, and alsofamously
ended the decade-long winning streak of Edwin Mosesin 1987. He has been profiled
many times for his struggles to overcome adversity and addiction as he rose to
athletic fame, most recently in the 2016 documentary film "Crossing the Line."

Harris was born in Torrance but grew up in Perris. He was a track standout at
Perris High School, specializing in hurdles.

Harris won three straight CIF Southern Section titles in the 300-meter hurdles
and two CIF-SS titles in the 110-meter hurdles. He capped his track career at
Perris by winning the 300 hurdles at the 1983 CIF State Championships. Harris
also was a star wide receiver on the school's football team.

Harris is accused of contacting a female student at the school with intent to
commit a sex crime, San Gabriel police officials said in a statement. The
communications were in an electronic format. Investigators declined to discuss
any additional specifics of the case.

"The police department has been working closely with the San Gabriel Unified
School District following a report of alleged inap

propriate contacts between the walk-on athletic coach and a district student,"
according to the police statement.

The Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services was notified
of the investigation.

Police took Harris into custody without a struggle, Nakamura said.

No further details were released Friday. Investigators are continuing to seek
potential additional victims, Nakamura said.

"The school district and the police department are working together to ensure
the safety of students remains of utmost importance," the police statement said.
"We will continue to work closely together as this issue moves forward."

San Gabriel Unified School District officials were not available to comment on
Friday.

According to Los Angeles County booking records, Harris was being held in lieu
of $150,000 bail at the Alhambra Police Department's jail pending his initial
court appearance, scheduled Tuesday in the Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County
Superior Court.

Anyone with information is urged to contact San Gabriel police at 626-308-2828.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Track coachaccused of inappropriate contact with student

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 523 words

ABSTRACT

SAN GABRIEL >> Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach
and 1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday suspicion of contacting a student
with the intent of committing a sex crime, officials said.

FULL TEXT

SAN GABRIEL >> Police arrested a Gabrielino High School assistant track coach
and 1984 Olympic silver medalist on Friday on suspicion of contacting a student
for the purpose of engaging in inappropriate contact with a student, officials
said.

Danny Lee Harris, 51 of Pasadena, was arrested shortly after noon, according to
San Gabriel Police officials and Los Angeles County booking records.

He has been relieved of his duties with the San Gabriel Unified School District
as a coach since May 17, at the outset of the investigation, San Gabriel Police
Lt. Riki Nakamura said.

The walk-on assistant track and field coachwon a silver medalin the 400-meter
hurdles during the 1984 Summer Olympic Games in Los Angeles, and alsofamously
ended the decade-long winning streak of Edwin Mosesin 1987. He has been profiled
many times for his struggles to overcome adversity and addiction as he rose to
athletic fame, most recently in the 2016 documentary film "Crossing the Line."

Harris was born in Torrance but grew up in Perris. He was a track standout at
Perris High School, specializing in hurdles.

Harris won three straight CIF Southern Section titles in the 300-meter hurdles
and two CIF-SS titles in the 110-meter hurdles. He capped his track career at
Perris by winning the 300 hurdles at the 1983 CIF State Championships. Harris
also was a star wide receiver on the school's football team.

Harris is accused of contacting a female student at the school with intent to
commit a sex crime, San Gabriel police officials said in a statement. The
communications were in an electronic format. Investigators declined to discuss
any additional specifics of the case.

"The police department has been working closely with the San Gabriel Unified
School District following a report of alleged in

propriate contacts between the walk-on athletic coach and a district student,"
according to the police statement.

The Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services was notified
of the investigation.

Police took Harris into custody without a struggle, Nakamura said.

No further details were released Friday. Investigators are continuing to seek
potential additional victims, Nakamura said.

"The school district and the police department are working together to ensure
the safety of students remains of utmost importance," the police statement said.
"We will continue to work closely together as this issue moves forward."

San Gabriel Unified School District officials were not available to comment on
Friday.

According to Los Angeles County booking records, Harris was being held in lieu
of $150,000 bail at the Alhambra Police Department's jail pending his initial
court appearance, scheduled Tuesday in the Alhambra branch of Los Angeles County
Superior Court.

Anyone with information is urged to contact San Gabriel police at 626-308-2828.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday

$3M OK'd for legal aid fund for migrants;
County supes vote to help those facing deportation

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words

ABSTRACT

LA County Board of Supervisors approves $3 million for LA Justice Fund, to
assist undocumented immigrants.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County will drop $3 million into a legal defense fund to help
undocumented immigrants and others facing deportation after the Board of
Supervisors voted 4 to 1 Tuesday to approve the allocation.

The vote means the LA Justice Fund,first proposed in Decemberby Los Angeles city
and county officials in response to President Donald Trump's hard stance on
immigrants in the country illegally, is closer to its $10 million goal.

About two dozen speakers from various organizations such as the NAACP of Pomona,
Asian Americans Advancing Justice-LA and the Guadalupe Homeless Project spoke in
favor of the fund Tuesday and thanked the board for the money.

"The county's $3 million contribution will give immigrants

facing deportation a fighting chance that they did not have before," said Eric
Hubbard, development director of Jovenes Inc., which provides homeless youth in
Los Angeles with shelter and housing.

But some were disappointed that the funds did not go far enough. Legal
representation would not be provided to people who have been convicted of, or
who are currently appealing a conviction for a violent felony. That includes
murder, rape, inflicting bodily harm, sexual assault, carjacking, extortion and
threats to victims or witnesses, and other crimes.

"We are disappointed that the LA Justice Fund does not address all the legal
needs of all Angelenos," said Martin Garcia, a member of LA Voice, a community
group that aims to improve the quality of life in L.A.

Those who do qualify would be people with close ties to Los Angeles County whose
family members are U.S. citizens, or who are lawful permanent individuals with
community ties, or those who are deferred action for childhood arrivals or DACA
recipients. Also qualifying are those who are heads of a household with one or
more dependent family members, unaccompanied childrenand veterans. Victims of
domestic violence or human trafficking also will be considered, according to the
agreement.

Supervisor Hilda Solis said the goal is to help people in need navigate a tricky
legal process.

"Today, the board took a significant step to create a safety net for immigrants,
one that is pro-family, pro-economic growth and stability, and pro-civil and
human rights," Solis said in a statement. "The LA Justice Fund will be able to
help those individuals who have simply been trying to make a better life for
themselves and their families."

It takes $5,000 to fund an immigration case, according to the Boston Immigrant
Justice Initiative, Solis said in a joint statement with Supervisor Janice Hahn.

About 7,000 Los Angeles County residents face removal proceedings without a
lawyer each year, they added.

Supervisor Sheila Kuehl, who also voted to approve allocating the money, said
she understood the disappointment expressed by some community leaders. Under the
Trump administration, she added, the federal government doesn't distinguish
between serious crimes and people "who steal popcorn at a movie theater."

"I wish there were a way not to exclude," Kuehl said of those who have crimes in
their past. "So many people have paid their dues to society, have paid  the
price and served their time. So I wish there was a way to at least look at their
lives."

Supervisor Kathryn Barger cast the lone dissenting vote, saying that the
deportations are occurring because of a broken immigration system.

"It is the federal government's responsibility to support states and counties in
their efforts to address the costs of illegal immigration," she said."County
taxpayers should not be forced to bear the cost to provide free legal
representation for those facing deportation."

One anti-immigration group, We the People Rising, said in a statement the county
should use the funds to help American citizens.

"This $3 million allotment should be expended to help homeless American
families, our veterans, disabled American citizens and the unemployed, who are
suffering by the thousands throughout the county," said Robin Hvidston,
executive director of the group.

The board's approval means $1 million will be contributed to the fund in the
upcoming fiscal year, and another $2 million in the 2018-2019 fiscal year.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday

Is the LAPD cooking the books on the crime rate?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 767 words

ABSTRACT

LDN Wednesday (1115)

FULL TEXT

Is the LAPD cooking the books to make the city's crime rate look lower than it
is?

That's the allegation from Captain Lillian Carranza of the Van Nuys Division,
who has filed a claim alleging that aggravated assaults have been intentionally
underreported in more than one division of the LAPD.

Carranza contended at a news conference that there has been a "highly complex
and elaborate coverup."

Police Chief Charlie Beck responded angrily that the accusations were "untrue,"
"outrageous" and "damn lies."

Beck noted that violent crime in L.A. is up 4 percent in 2017. "If I'm cooking
the books, I'm not doing a good job," he said.

But you don't have to be a math major or a chef to wonder if 4 percent is
perhaps the best they can make it look. Beck might have been more convincing if
he had simply promised a full investigation into Carranza's charges.

Crime statistics, cooked or raw, are not a perfect indicator of a city's safety.
Many factors are not measured, including, obviously, crimes that go unreported
for any number of reasons.

That's why federal officials use two measurements to get a more accurate picture
of crime rates: The FBI's Uniform Crime Report, and the National Crime
Victimization Survey.

The Uniform Crime Report is made up of statistics reported to the FBI on various
major offenses from nearly every law-enforcement agency in the United States -
local, county, tribal and federal. The UCR Program dates back to 1929 and
collects information on murder, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary and
approximately 20 other categories of crimes.

The National Crime Victimization Survey, run by the Bureau of Justice
Statistics, began in 1973 and was overhauled in 1993 to improve the questions
and broaden the scope. Twice a year, U.S. Census Bureau personnel interview a
nationwide representative sample of about 75,000 people in 43,000 households.
The same households stay in the sample for three years. New households are
rotated in as the earlier participants are rotated out.

On the basis of these 150,000 or so interviews every year, the National Crime
Victimization Survey estimates the proportion of each type of crime that is
reported or not reported. It summarizes the reasons for not reporting crimes, as
well as the demographic breakdown of crime victims and offenders. It offers a
window into methods and frequency of self-defense by victims, possible substance
abuse by offenders, and the experience of victims with the criminal justice
system.

Carranza's complaint relates to the type of crime reports that are sent to the
FBI. She alleges that aggravated assaults in 2016 were understated by 10 percent
in the Pacific and Central divisions because the crimes were misclassified as
less serious offenses. Something similar was confirmed in a 2015 audit by the
LAPD's inspector general, who found that more than 25,000 aggravated assaults in
the city were misclassified during the previous six years.

The LAPD established a Data Integrity Unit made up of detectives and data
analysts to try to improve the department's accuracy in categorizing crimes.
Carranza said she has been telling supervisors about the data errors since 2014
but was warned against "meddling" and denied a promotion to commander.

Beck complained about Carranza's complaints, calling her "very litigious," but
the Los Angeles Police Protective League sided with Carranza.

"It's time for transparency and honesty," the union said in a statement, "not
cooking the books to fool our elected officials and the public."

It's possible that the books are not cooked intentionally, but still give a
misleading picture of crime in Los Angeles. Errors and omissions in reporting
can leave dangerous gaps in law enforcement databases.

That's what happened in the case of the shooter who massacred worshippers at a
church in Sutherland Springs, Texas. Because the Air Force failed to inform the
FBI that this individual was court-martialed in 2014 for domestic assault, the
shooter's gun purchase was not stopped, as it should have been, by a background
check.

The Pentagon inspector general is now investigating the failure to report
military criminal history information to the FBI, an ongoing problem that the
Defense Department has known about for 20 years.

Crime reports are far from perfect. So if you have the sense that crime is
getting worse in your neighborhood, even though statistics may not show it,
you're probably right.

Susan Shelley is a columnist for the Southern California News Group. Reach her
at Susan@SusanShelley.com and follow her on Twitter: @Susan_Shelley.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             August 4, 2017 Friday

L.A. County: Sheriff fears immigration policies could cost millions in grants

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell says he's concerned that President
Donald Trump's administration could exclude the department for up to $132
million in federal law enforcement grants over the next three years as penalty
for its limited cooperation with immigration officials.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell says he has been lobbying President
Donald Trump's administration to avoid potentially losing out on as much as $132
million in federal law enforcement grants over the next three years due to the
department's immigration policies.

During recent trips to Washington, D.C., McDonnell said he has met with U.S.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions, former Department of Homeland Security Secretary
John F. Kelly - now Trump's chief of staff - as well as Congress members to urge
against any restrictions or cuts to future federal grants.

The Trump administration has begun cracking down on so-called "sanctuary"
jurisdictions that it says protect undocumented immigrants who have committed
crimes while undermining the nation's laws.

"It would have a negative impact on public safety in L.A. County and Southern
California," McDonnell said in a recent phone interview of the potential loss of
resources.

Latest threat

On Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions sent letters to four cities -
including two in California - threatening to deny federal crime-fighting aid if
the cities don't step up efforts to help detain and deport people living in the
country illegally.

The targeted cities - which have all struggled with crime - are Stockton, San
Bernardino, Baltimore and Albuquerque, New Mexico. All expressed interest in the
Justice Department's new Public Safety Partnership, federal officials said. The
program provides assistance from federal agents, analysts and technology to find
solutions to crime.

While the Justice Department did not call out any communities in L.A. County in
its latest move to punish so-called sanctuary cities, McDonnell has said the
county's limited cooperation with federal immigration officers strikes a
necessary balance between public safety and public trust.

The bulk of federal grant funds that McDonnell fears could ultimately be in
question - $105 million of the $132 million - would come from DHS for the
continued development of a system to enhance radio and broadband communication
for police, firefighters, paramedics and other emergency responders in the
county.

The Los Angeles Regional Interoperable Communications System, which has been in
the works since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, would also improve
communication between local agencies and their state and federal partners.

"It allows various departments to communicate with each other, particularly
during times of emergency but on a regular basis as well," McDonnell said.

New rules grant

For now, only a small fraction of the $132 million in federal grants that the
Sheriff's Department would expect to benefit from in the next three years
appears to be in jeopardy. The U.S. Department of Justice announced new
conditions last week for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants
Program, a crime-fighting program that helps communities target their most
pressing needs.

Los Angeles County received $1.17 million in the so-called Byrne JAG funds for
drug enforcement, education and prevention for 2017, according to county
documents.

L.A. County's Office of County Counsel is still reviewing these new conditions
to determine if the Sheriff's Department would be considered compliant, said
L.A. County Assistant Sheriff Eddie Rivero, who is McDonnell's point person on
immigration matters. The Justice Department declined to comment specifically on
the Sheriff's Department's policies.

One of the new conditions requires jurisdictions to allow federal immigration
officers into detention facilities. While the Sheriff's Department allows U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement access to interview certain inmates in jails
and to pick them up at the time of their release, it restricts the agency's
access to those with serious offenses specified under the state's Trust Act -
though it's not required to do so.

The Sheriff's Department believes that limiting ICE's access to these serious
offenders helps it continue "to build trust within the community," Rivero said.

Some immigrant rights advocates argue the sheriff should not cooperate with ICE
at all.

Federal funding 'critical'

Besides the Byrne JAG grants, sheriff's officials say they're concerned that
similar conditions could also be placed on other federal grant programs the
department has been benefiting from. If so, a Justice Department program that
provides some reimbursement to state and local governments for the costs of
incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens could also be at risk. Grant funds
benefiting the Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Task Force and the Los
Angeles Joint Regional Taskforce, which is a regional anti-terrorism effort,
might also be impacted, officials said.

"Federal grant funding is critical for the safety of our communities," Rivero
said in a written statement. "The loss of these funds would be detrimental to
advancements in technology, the fight against terrorism, narcotics trafficking,
human trafficking and many other vital programs."

The department would have to seek other sources, such as state and county
funding, if these funds were no longer available, Rivero said.

Complicating matters is state Senate Bill 54,  sometimes referred to as the
"sanctuary state" bill, which would prohibit the use of state and local public
resources to aid ICE agents in deportation actions. That bill has been passed by
the state Senate and is making its way through the Assembly.

McDonnell noted that his primary concern is not financial but about keeping and
maintaining the public's trust.

"If we lose that, we put the safety of everyone in all of our communities at
greater risk," he said.

Los Angeles County Supervisor Kathryn Barger said in a statement that she
supports the sheriff's efforts to ensure the "highest possible level of public
safety."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             May 20, 2017 Saturday

Police: 'Knock-knock' burglary arrests may be linked;
Investigators think crew of gang members could be responsible for several
break-ins

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1122 words

ABSTRACT

Four people were arrested in connection with knock-knock burglaries in two
separate incidents this week in the San Fernando Valley, Mid-City and San
Gabriel Valley areas. Around 10:30 a.m. Monday, investigators from the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department Major Crimes Bureau, Burglary-Task Force
followed a car with suspected gang members believed to be involved in organized
residential burglaries, authorities said. The car was followed into residential
neighborhoods of Northridge and Porter Ranch before it going to San Fernando and
Sylmar, sheriff's department officials said. Authorities said documented L.A.
Area gang member Malik Trevon Oaks, 18, of Los Angeles, exited the car and
walked into a cul de sac street in the 14600 block of Rex Street in Sylmar. Ten
minutes after walking to the cul de sac, sheriff's department officials said,
Oaks ran from the street and entered the car which drove out of the
neighborhood. Detectives allege the suspects-including Oaks-broke into a home by
smashing a side window and ransacked the residence. After detectives coordinated
with Los Angeles Police Department officers, the LAPD attempted to conduct a
traffic stop which resulted in a brief pursuit, officials said. Authorities
explained the suspects exited the 5 Freeway near Paxton Street before stopping
and running on foot into the neighborhood but within minutes a sheriff's
detective detained and arrested Oaks who was hiding in an underground walkway
for pedestrians. A short time later, LAPD officers with a K9 team found
documented L.A. Area gang member Rondell Marques Fields, 32, of Los Angeles
hiding in a nearby backyard. A third suspect was not found but property taken
from the home and additional evidence was found inside the car. The men were
arrested on suspicion of residential burglary as well as criminal street
terrorism. Fields was also arrested in connection with felony evading a police
officer. They were arraigned on Wednesday but it was not immediately clear how
they pled. Officials said the investigation is ongoing and both agencies are
trying to determine if this is a burglary crew responsible for additional
burglaries in the Los Angeles County and San Fernando Valley areas. The next
day, at 11 a.m., detectives from the task force conducted an investigation into
what they believed was a suspicious Gray Porsche Cayenne SUV used in residential
burglaries throughout Mid-City Los Angeles and in the San Gabriel Valley.
Investigators, authorities said, followed the SUV into Gardena where it drove to
the 14500 block of Wadkins Avenue. Detectives watched as a passenger, later
determined to be documented Los Angeles area gang member Ricky Holmes, 39, of
Los Angeles, "disappeared" around a side yard.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles police on Friday announced the arrests of four people suspected in
"knock-knock"-style burglaries, and detectives are trying to determine if the
suspects are part of a burglary crew combing Southern California for unwitting
victims.

Officials suspect that the four have committed "knock-knock"-style burglaries in
areas as far apart as the San Fernando Valley, the San Gabriel Valley and the
South Bay.

Around 10:30 a.m. Monday, investigators from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department Major Crimes Bureau, Burglary-Task Force followed a car with
suspected gang members believed to be involved in organized residential
burglaries, authorities said.

The car was followed into residential neighborhoods in Northridge and Porter
Ranch before going to San Fernando and Sylmar, Sheriff's Department officials
said.

Authorities said documented L.A.-area gang member Malik Trevon Oaks, 18, of Los
Angeles exited the car and walked into a cul-de-sac on the

14600 block of Rex Street in Sylmar.

Detectives allege the suspects - including Oaks - broke into a home by smashing
a side window and ransacked the residence.

After detectives coordinated with Los Angeles Police Department officers, the
LAPD attempted to conduct a traffic stop, which resulted in a brief pursuit,
officials said.

Authorities said the suspects exited the 5 Freeway near Paxton Street before
stopping and running on foot into the neighborhood. But within minutes, a
sheriff's detective detained and arrested Oaks, who was hiding in an underground
walkway for pedestrians, authorities said.

A short time later, LAPD officers with a K-9 team found documented L.A.-area
gang member Rondell Marques Fields, 32, of Los Angeles hiding in a nearby
backyard.

A third suspect was not found, but property taken from the home and additional
evidence was found inside the car.

The men were arrested on suspicion of residential burglary as well as criminal
street terrorism. Fields was also arrested in connection with felony evading a
police officer.

They were arraigned on Wednesday, but it was not immediately clear how they
pleaded.

Officials said the investigation is ongoing, and both agencies are trying to
determine if this is a burglary crew responsible for additional crimes in the
Los Angeles County and San Fernando Valley areas.

On Tuesday, at 11 a.m., detectives from the task force conducted an
investigation into what they believed was a suspicious gray Porsche Cayenne SUV
used in residential burglaries in the Mid-City area of Los Angeles and in the
San Gabriel Valley.

Investigators followed the SUV into Gardena, where it drove to the 14500 block
of Wadkins Avenue.

Detectives watched as a passenger, later determined to be documented Los Angeles
-area gang member Ricky Holmes, 39, of Los Angeles "disappeared" around a side
yard.

Minutes later, authorities said, Holmes left the residence from the front door
carrying a bag before entering the SUV, which drove away. Detectives later
confirmed a side window to the home was opened, and the interior of the
residence was ransacked.

Within minutes, the SUV was stopped and two suspects - including Holmes - were
apprehended with stolen property and cash taken from the home recovered,
authorities said.

Holmes was arrested on suspicion of residential burglary, conspiracy to commit
burglary, criminal street terrorism and resisting arrest.

A second suspect, Jasma Garrison, 34, of Los Angeles was also arrested on
suspicion of the burglary, conspiracy and street terrorism and  felony evading
police. Garrison, authorities said, is a suspected street gang associate and a
four-time convicted felon.

Holmes was arraigned on May 18 in Torrance and remains in custody, but it was
unclear how he pleaded.

Garrison, who is not in custody, has a court appearance set for June in
Torrance.

Investigators are trying to determine if the suspects are responsible for
additional "knock-knock"-style crimes in Los Angeles County, including the South
Bay.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Washington: Task Force Investigation Targets Leadership of MS-13, including
Former Top 'Shot-Caller' of L.A. Faction, a Dozen 'Shot-Callers' who Supervised
Cliques and Three Members Accused of Murder

LENGTH: 1432  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco has issued the following news release:
Capping a nearly three-year investigation, federal, state and local law
enforcement authorities this morning took into custody a total of 21 members and
associates of Mara Salvatrucha, a transnational criminal street gang commonly
called MS-13 that was formed in Los Angeles about 30 years ago.



 Those arrested today by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on
Violent Gangs (LAMTFVG) are among 44 defendants who face federal charges,
including the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region. These dozen high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto leadership
council for the gang - a committee that was needed because no one person was
willing to take on the top role in the wake of ongoing scrutiny by law
enforcement.

 A racketeering indictment charges three MS-13 members for murders they
committed in connection with the gang's activities. These murders were solved as
a result of the LAMTFVG investigation and its partnership with LAPD Olympic
Division Homicide detectives.

 Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, also known as "Little Boy," 23, faces a violent
crime in aid of racketeering (VICAR) murder charge for allegedly fatally
shooting an innocent bystander who was confronted on August 15, 2015 inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue. A friend of the murder victim was also stabbed during the attack.

 Two other MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, also known as
"Blacky," 39, and Joffri Molina, also known as "Espia," 24 - are also charged
with VICAR murder. Rivas is accused of murdering a man on August 30, 2015 at a
strip mall in Pacoima. Molina is accused of murdering a man on September 27,
2015 on street in North Hollywood.

 Lopez, Rivas and Molina are eligible for the death penalty if found guilty of
the murder offenses. Prosecutors will decide whether to seek the death penalty
at a later date.

 "This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown. "With
thousands of members here in the Southland, the gang's power is widespread -
power which it maintains with severe acts of violence. Today's charges and
arrests, however, will deal a critical blow to the top leadership of this
criminal organization and will significantly improve safety in neighborhoods
across this region."

 "This case has targeted the leadership and most violent actors of the MS-13
street gang in Los Angeles, as well as MS-13's links to the Mexican Mafia," said
Deirdre Fike, the Assistant Director in Charge of the FBI's Los Angeles Field
Office. "This operation will have a significant impact on this violent gang and
their overall ability to maintain control over law-abiding citizens."

 "This operation is a powerful example of the significant impact partnerships
play in law enforcement," said Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck. "The
successful arrest of these individuals was only possible because a wide range of
agencies collaborated with each other, based on information gleaned from
countless investigation hours and tips provided by people who could trust our
police officers, regardless of their immigration status."

 At the center of today's takedown is a 41-count racketeering indictment that
charges 34 members and associates of MS-13. The indictment, which alleges
violations of the federal Racketeer Influence and Corrupt Organizations (RICO)
Act, outlines the gang's organizational structure, its affiliation with the
Mexican Mafia prison gang, and its strict set of rules and punishment. The
127-page indictment describes how MS-13 uses violence and intimidation in an
effort to maintain its power and control narcotics trafficking.

 The lead defendant in the RICO indictment is Jose Balmore Romero, also known as
"Porky," 43, who in 2013 and 2014 was the overall shot-caller for MS-13 Los
Angeles. The indictment alleges that, as the leader of the gang, Balmore oversaw
MS-13's drug trafficking activities, coordinated the collection of extortionate
"taxes" and "rent," some of which was then distributed to Mexican Mafia members
who oversaw MS-13. Balmore also allegedly conducted and attended gang meetings,
where he disseminated orders, including authorizing the "jumping in" of new
members and the assault of members who were in bad standing. Balmore has been in
local custody since February 2015, when the LAMTFVG arrested him for ordering a
gang-related murder.

 In addition to narcotics trafficking and violent crimes, members of MS-13 also
allegedly engaged in a wide range of criminal conduct that includes the
extortion of street-level drug dealers and innocent business owners who were
threatened with death if they did not make payments to the gang. The gang also
operates illegal after-hours clubs where it generates profits from gambling and
illegal narcotics and alcohol sales.

 "This gang uses coercion and intimidation while inflicting horrific violence in
the neighborhoods where they operate," said ATF Los Angeles Field Division
Special Agent in Charge Eric Harden. "Today is a great win for justice and a
heavy message to the community. Law enforcement will combine their resources and
all our areas of expertise to cripple these organizations. We will win, they
will lose."

 In addition to the 34-defendant RICO indictment, prosecutors have filed a
drug-trafficking indictment against five other gang members who were associated
with the Mexican Mafia. These defendants are charged with conspiracy to
distribute controlled substances, as well as various narcotics and firearms
offenses.

 Two other MS-13 members have also been charged separately with narcotics and
firearms offenses.

 One defendant charged in this sweep is named in a case filed under seal because
he was a juvenile at the time of the alleged offenses.

 Prosecutors this morning are filing criminal complaints in federal court
against two additional defendants who were arrested this morning, one of whom is
a shot-caller of an MS-13 clique who is currently on supervised release after
being convicted in a prior racketeering case.

 "The relationship between drugs, violent crimes, and street gangs isn't new to
DEA - the illicit drug market serves as the life-blood of street gang
operations," said DEA Special Agent in Charge David J. Downing. "The DEA and
Southern California Drug Task Force are committed to disrupting the flow of
drugs into our communities and mitigating the associated violence these gangs
perpetuate."

 During this morning's operation, authorities arrested a total of 21 federal
defendants. Out of the 44 defendants facing federal charges, 20 were already in
custody and three are considered to be fugitives.

 An indictment or criminal complaint contains allegations that a defendant has
committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless
proven guilty in court.

 Those taken into custody today are expected to be arraigned on the charges
against them this afternoon in United States District Court. The defendants who
are currently in custody will be brought into federal court to face the charges
at a later date.

 The investigation into MS-13 was conducted by the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task
Force on Violent Gangs and was led by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the Los Angeles Police Department.

 The LAMTFVG includes personnel from the Drug Enforcement Administration's
Southern California Drug Task Force pursuant to the High Intensity Drug
Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives; the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department; U.S. Customs and Border
Protection; and the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the United States Bureau of Prisons
participated in the investigation.

 Other agencies provided substantial assistance during the investigation,
including the Los Angeles Regional Criminal Information Clearinghouse (LA
CLEAR), the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office, the Los Angeles County Probation
Department, and the Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family
Services.

 The prosecution of the RICO case and the related federal cases is being handled
by Assistant United States Attorneys Joanna Curtis and Jeff Chemerinsky of the
Violent and Organized Crime Section.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 846 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, July 25, Daily Breeze

FULL TEXT

           CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Assault with a deadly weapon: July 7, 227th and Dolores streets.

Assault with a deadly weapon: July 9, 21000 block of South Figueroa Street.

Assault with a deadly weapon: July 11, Avalon Boulevard and Victoria Street.

Residential burglary: July 7, 24700 block of South Fries Avenue.

Residential burglary: July 11, 2500 block of East 218th Street.

Residential burglary: July 13, 18500 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Burglary: July 8, 1200 block of East 223rd Street.

Burglary: July 7, 600 block of University Drive.

Grand theft: July 7, 21700 block of South Moneta Avenue.

Stolen vehicle:

July 7, 700 block of East Carson Street.

July 8, 228th Street and Avalon Boulevard.

July 9, 24000 block of South Neptune Avenue.

July 10, 300 block of West 220th Street.

July 10, 100 block of East 231st Street.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Assault with a deadly weapon: July 1, 1000 block of West Carson Street.

Residential burglary: July 9, 21000 block of South Van Deene Avenue.

Residential burglary: July 3, 21000 block of South Menlo Avenue.

Burglary: July 5, 700 block of West Carson Street.

Burglary: July 13, 700 block of West Carson Street.

Grand theft: July 9, 20400 block of South Budlong Avenue.

Stolen vehicle:

July 9, 21100 block of South Menlo Avenue.

July 9, Torrance Boulevard and Vermont Avenue.

TORRANCE

Armed robbery: 9:33 p.m. July 15, 19800 block of Pioneer Avenue. Someone stabbed
the victim in the leg with a knife. The victim's condition was not given.

Strong-arm robbery: 1:37 p.m. July 14, 170th Street and Purche Avenue. Some
people pushed the victim to the ground and forcibly took a wallet and a watch.

Strong-arm robbery: 10:54 p.m. July 10, 23700 block of Western Avenue. Someone
pushed the victim to the floor and ripped jewelry from her neck.

Strong-arm robbery: 11:45 a.m. July 10, 17500 block of Crenshaw Boulevard.
Someone aggressively grabbed the pockets of a person in a wheelchair. No loss
reported.

Battery: 4:38 p.m. July 12, 1700 block of Arlington Avenue. Someone threw an
empty plastic bottle at the victim's head.

Residential burglary: 12:17 a.m. July 14, 2000 block of Middlebrook Road.
Someone smashed a window to enter and fled with property when confronted by a
resident, who had been sleeping. A cellphone, pocket knives and beer were
reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 6:18-6:25 p.m. July 11, 19900 block of Prairie Avenue.
Windows were forced open. The location was ransacked. Liquor and paperwork were
reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 3:40 p.m. July 10 to 7:50 a.m. July 11, 2000 block of 231st
Street. A window was pushed open to enter. The location was ransacked. A white
board was tagged. A floor was urinated on. Bottles of water were reported
stolen.

Commercial burglary: 5:37 a.m. July 10, 21300 block of Hawthorne Boulevard.
Someone smashed a window to enter. A safe was forced open. Money was reported
stolen.

Theft: 8:30 p.m. July 15 to 6:30 a.m. July 17, 4600 block of Jacques Street. A
catalytic converter was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 5:54 p.m. July 14, 500 block of Camino de Encanto. A delivered parcel was
reported stolen from a porch.

Theft: 3:30 p.m. July 14 to 6 a.m. July 17, 5200 block of Torrance Boulevard.
Batteries were reported stolen from construction machinery.

Theft: 4:35-4:40 p.m. July 12, 1500 block of Hickory Avenue. A delivered parcel
was reported stolen from a doorstep.

Theft: 4-6:30 p.m. July 12, 20000 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. Money was
reported stolen from a wallet.

Theft: 1;31-4:45 p.m. July 12, 1600 block of Greenwood Avenue. A delivered
parcel was reported stolen from a doorstep.

Theft: 2:50-3:30 p.m. July 11, 2600 block of Pacific Coast Highway. A wallet was
reported stolen from a purse as the victim shopped.

Theft: 9:30-9:45 p.m. July 10, 25300 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A purse
forgotten in a shopping cart was reported stolen.

Theft: 7:30 p.m. July 10 to 1 p.m. July 11, 4900 block of Garnet Street. Solar
lights were reported stolen from a yard.

Theft: 4 p.m. July 9 to 4 p.m. July 11, 4100 block of Torrance Boulevard. A
purse was reported stolen from a hospital room.

Theft: 12:01-2 p.m. July 9, 18600 block of Western Avenue. A locked bicycle was
reported stolen from the location.

Stolen vehicle:

3:24 p.m. July 14, 3600 block of Fashion Way. 2017 Toyota Corolla.

1-1:25 a.m. July 14, 2300 block of Torrance Boulevard. 2001 Subaru Outback.

12:53 a.m. July 10, 19900 block of Prairie Avenue. 2017 Dodge Challenger.

11 p.m. July 9 to 11 a.m. July 10, 23700 block of Western Avenue. 1999 Ford
E250.

10-10:20 p.m. July 9, 3500 block of Carson Street. 1995 Honda Civic.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 24, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Opening Statement of Chairman Ron Johnson "Border Insecurity: The
Rise of MS-13 and Other Transnational Criminal Organizations"

LENGTH: 498  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington, DC: U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security & Governmental
Affairs has issued the following press release:
During the Committee's examination of America's unsecure borders we have learned
how transnational criminal organizations and drug cartels exploit American
policies and our lack of border security to advance their criminal agenda.
Today we continue that important work by discussing how the street gang Mara
Salvatrucha, commonly known as MS-13, and other Central American gangs affect
communities throughout the United States.


MS-13 was born on the streets of Los Angeles in the 1980s.  Over the years, it
has expanded domestically and into Central America. In the United States, the
FBI has identified five hot spots with a concentrated MS-13 presence and
violence:  Los Angeles; Houston; the Washington D.C. region; Long Island, New
York; and Boston. With an estimated 10,000 members in the United States and
another 30,000 in Central America, MS-13 has expanded its criminal enterprise
across borders by committing acts of violence, extortion, racketeering, human
trafficking, and other crimes throughout the Western Hemisphere.  Like other
international organized criminal enterprises, MS-13 members in the U.S.
sometimes communicate with leadership in El Salvador and receive instruction to
carry out a variety of crimes including homicide.
In 2012, the U.S. Treasury Department designated MS-13 a transnational criminal
organization and began targeted economic sanctions against the gang.  This
designation allows the government to use its many tools to go after the gang's
financial and logistical operations.  To this day, MS-13 remains the only street
gang the U.S. government has designated as a transnational criminal
organization.
The five FBI-designated MS-13 hot spots have received a sizeable proportion of
the tens of thousands of unaccompanied children (UACs) who  have entered the
United States since the humanitarian crisis at the southwest border that began
in 2012 and peaked in 2014. Many UACs, especially those from the Northern
Triangle, undertake a dangerous, often violent journey from their home countries
to the United States.  Indeed, many are fleeing the very gang violence in their
home countries that is now gripping American communities.
The law enforcement officials testifying today have identified the UAC
population as highly vulnerable to MS-13 recruitment and exploitation.  MS-13
has used American schools to recruit members and carry out acts of violence.
The typical MS-13 member today is younger and even more violent than in years
past.
Tragically, the victims of MS-13 violence are also getting younger.  Suffolk
County, New York, for example, has seen at least six teenagers murdered by the
gang since October 2016.  I thank Suffolk County Police Commissioner Sini and
the other witnesses for appearing today to discuss the challenges this gang and
other criminal syndicates pose in their communities.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
          DONOR: Liberty Hill Foundation (in collaboration with Gender
                         Justice Los Angeles) ('13 '15)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 25,000 - 49,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Liberty Hill Foundation (in collaboration with Gender Justice Los
Angeles) ('13 '15)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              390 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 24, 2017 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Actor's sexual assault accusers speak out;
Two women each say he forced himself on them after late nights spent at his
home.

BYLINE: Alene Tchekmedyian

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words


For both women, the encounter began the same.

They were each invited to "Gossip Girl" star Ed Westwick's home by a mutual
friend. When their Uber driver dropped them off, they drank and hung out at the
house for hours. Eventually, they each went to a spare bedroom to sleep.

Then, the women both alleged in separate interviews with The Times, the British
actor forced himself on them.

The women said the incidents happened months apart, three years ago. At the
time, the women were each dating someone, friends of Westwick.

A third woman, who asked that her name not be published, told The Times that
Westwick grabbed and slapped her backside at FYF Fest near downtown Los Angeles
that same year.

"You don't know what you're missing," she said he told her, after she declined
to buy him a drink.

Another, Rachel Eck, told BuzzFeed News that Westwick groped her that same year
at the Sunset Marquis in West Hollywood, where she showed up to hang out with
her ex-boyfriend.

A publicist for Westwick did not respond to the allegations after multiple
emails and phone calls from a reporter. But in two Twitter posts, Westwick
adamantly denied the allegations.

"I do not know this woman," he wrote after the first woman, Kristina Cohen, came
forward. "I have never forced myself in any manner, on any woman. I certainly
have never committed rape."

Two days later, he said he's cooperating with authorities "so that they can
clear my name as soon as possible."

"It is disheartening and sad to me that as a result of two unverified ... social
media claims, there are some in this environment who could ever conclude I have
had anything to do with such vile and horrific conduct," he wrote. "I have
absolutely not."

In light of the allegations, the BBC announced that it was suspending the debut
of "Ordeal by Innocence," a new television series starring Westwick, "until
these matters are resolved."

Los Angeles police opened an investigation after Cohen filed a report this month
at the LAPD's Hollywood station. The agency's sex crimes unit of the
Robbery-Homicide Division took over the case.

In interviews with The Times, both Cohen and Aurelie Cao, who goes by the stage
name Aurelie Wynn, offered detailed accounts of encounters with Westwick in
2014.

For Cohen, the alleged incident happened sometime after Valentine's Day. She
said she went to a house party with Kaine Harling, an Australian producer she
was dating, and her best friend, Blaise Godbe Lipman. She and Harling left the
party and went back to her place, where they stayed up through the night
talking.

Early that morning, Westwick called Harling and invited the producer over to his
house, which Cohen said was somewhere in the Hollywood Hills off Mulholland
Drive.

Harling called an Uber and the pair went to Westwick's home. The three of them
spent the morning in Westwick's bedroom, she said, drinking and smoking
marijuana, playing dress-up with his hats, speaking in different accents,
playing rap music and writing.

Cohen said other people were in the home, including Westwick's then-roommate. At
some point, possibly in the afternoon, the energy in the bedroom changed, she
said. Westwick suggested they have a threesome.

Cohen said she told Harling she felt weird and wanted to leave. Harling told her
he didn't want to leave so abruptly or make things awkward, she said.

The three of them moved to the kitchen.

Cohen said she was tired and Westwick suggested she sleep in his guest room.
Harling walked her to the spare room, where he told her he was going to "watch
the game" for 20 minutes with the boys. Then, she recalled him telling her, they
could leave.

Cohen quickly fell asleep.

When she woke up, she said, the sheets were thrown off her and Westwick was
sticking his fingers inside of her. She said she tried to fight him off and told
him to stop.

She said he grabbed her head and told her he wanted to have sex with her, and
asked if she wanted to have sex with him.

"Why would I?" she asked.

"Money," she said he replied.

Then, she alleged, he coerced her into having sex.

Eventually, she said, Harling came to the room and asked her if she wanted to
leave. She remembers feeling paralyzed and terrified.

"I wish I had had enough courage to just run out of the room and make a scene,"
Cohen said. "But I didn't. I said, 'No.' "

Cohen said Westwick walked Harling to the door and said, "She's gonna be my wife
for a little bit." The actor then shut and locked the door.

Harling could not be reached for comment. In a strange twist, Buzzfeed News
reported, Harling is also the ex-boyfriend who called Eck, the woman who said in
an interview with the news site that Westwick groped her, to the Sunset Marquis
hotel in March 2014.

After Harling left, Cohen said that in a daze, she had dinner with Westwick. She
said he served dry steak and soggy onion rings.

"At that point I felt like I'd completely lost my voice," she said.

They watched the movie "About Time" and had sex. That time, Cohen said, she
didn't fight it. She ended up spending the night.

"I wish I did just run out of the room," Cohen said. "In the moment I was just
scared; I was actually scared that he could've killed me."

When she woke up in the morning, Cohen asked Westwick to call her an Uber and he
did. He kissed her goodbye and she left, directing the Uber driver to Godbe
Lipman's home, where her car was parked.

Cohen provided a photograph she took that morning of what she said was
Westwick's bedroom.

Godbe Lipman, 28, said in an interview that Cohen told him the same story that
February morning in 2014. Reflecting on it now, Godbe Lipman thinks the whole
situation was a setup.

Cao's story was similar. A friend invited her to a Glendower Avenue mansion she
said Westwick was renting in August 2014. By the time she got there, she said,
the party was over. She was invited again the next night, when, she said,
Westwick sent an Uber to her Santa Monica home to pick her up.

At the time, Cao, 30, said she was dating Mark Salling, an actor on the
television show "Glee" who was caught in 2015 with a trove of child pornography.
He agreed last month to plead guilty to possessing child porn.

Cao said she and her friend spent the night drinking and talking with Westwick
and his roommate on the patio until the sun started to come up. They decided to
grab a few hours' sleep, she said, before events that day. Westwick guided her
to a master bedroom filled with children's belongings, including a crib and a
playpen.

Cao said he sat on the bed and asked her if she wanted to hook up. She said no.

"OK, then," she recalled him saying. She said he then pushed her face-down onto
the bed, snapped off her one-piece bathing suit and penetrated her from behind
as she told him to stop.

"I was in shock," she said. She remembers thinking, "I can't believe this is
happening."

Westwick fell asleep, Cao said, and she tried to snap a photo of him to prove
she was there, but the room was too dark. She did film two videos -- which she
provided to The Times -- as she tried to find her way out of the home that
morning.

Cao decided to speak out after hearing Cohen's story and seeing people online
trying to discredit her. Cao first described her account in a Facebook post.

"I wouldn't have done it otherwise," Cao said. Her friend, Eleni Feleke,
confirmed to The Times that Cao told her about the incident in 2014, a week or
so after it allegedly happened.

Cao said she considered going to the police at the time, but friends discouraged
her, telling her that the experience was common in Hollywood and that people
would criticize her and say she was out for fame. The alleged incident, she
said, deterred her from pursuing an acting career.

Cohen and Cao met for the first time one recent afternoon at the LAPD's
Hollywood station, where Cao filed a sexual assault report. Cohen said she
showed up to provide moral support.

When Cao walked in, the two women embraced.

"Oh my God, I'm like nervous," Cao told Cohen. "I think it'll be relieving. I
did my part. After that, it's out of my hands."

Cohen handed her a fuzzy red blanket she had brought to keep Cao warm for when
she spoke to police.

"I'm here to hold you," Cohen said.

--

alene.tchekmedyian@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ED WESTWICK is accused of sexual assault by two women who
described him forcing himself on them in separate incidents in 2014.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Jordan Strauss Invision/Associated Press PHOTO: ED WESTWICK in two
Twitter posts adamantly denied the sexual assault allegations against him.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Chris Delmas AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 852 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, Feb. 21. Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

           CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Residential burglary: Feb. 4, 22600 block of South Figueroa Street.

Residential burglary: Feb. 6, 17700 block of South Exa Court.

Residential burglary: Feb. 6, 21900 block of South Water Street.

Residential burglary: Feb. 7, 200 block of West 235th Street.

Residential burglary: Feb. 7, 100 block of West 232nd Place.

Attempted residential burglary: Feb. 5, 17500 block of South Figueroa Street.

Burglary: Feb. 5, 20500 block of Belshaw Avenue.

Burglary: Feb. 5, 20700 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Burglary: Feb. 9, 22900 block of South Wilmington Avenue.

Grand theft: Feb. 4, 300 block of West 229th Street.

Grand theft: Feb. 4, 1900 block of East 220th Street.

Stolen vehicle:

Feb. 5, 100 block of West Albertoni Street.

Feb. 7, 500 block of East Carson Street.

Feb. 8, 17000 block of South Kingview Avenue.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website, http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Grand theft: Feb. 5, 22800 block of South Van Deene Avenue.

TORRANCE

Arson: 6:52 a.m. Feb. 10, 4500 block of Torrance Boulevard. Police said a fire
was set next to a gas pump.

Arson: 7:55-8:02 p.m. Feb. 8, 2100 block of Redondo Beach Boulevard. Police said
a bag of trash was set on fire in a utility closet.

Armed robbery: 12:45-12:50 p.m. Feb. 5, 1800 block of Carson Street. Someone
brandished a gun and demanded property. Money and a cellphone were reported
stolen.

Strong-arm robbery: 12:27 p.m. Feb. 10, Cabrillo Avenue and 231st Street.
Someone opened the victim's car door in an attempt to force her out and take the
vehicle. No loss reported.

Strong-arm robbery: 12:15 p.m. Feb. 9, 22000 block of Hawthorne Boulevard.
Someone forcibly took the victim's cellphone.

Strong-arm robbery: 3:30-3:35 p.m. Feb. 6, 18500 block of Western Avenue.
Someone forcibly took a purse from the victim.

Residential burglary: 9-11 a.m. Feb. 10, 2800 block of 163rd Street. A window
screen was cut to enter. The location was ransacked. A comforter set was
reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 8:30 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. Feb. 9, 3800 block of 183rd Street.
A sliding glass door was smashed. The location was ransacked. A safe was moved
and an attempt was made to pry it open. No loss reported.

Residential burglary: 6:15 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Feb. 8, 16900 block of Osage
Avenue. Glass in door was smashed for entry. The location was ransacked. The
loss, if any, was not known at the time of the report.

Residential burglary: Noon to 5:15 p.m. Feb. 5, 16400 block of Haas Avenue. A
sliding glass door was smashed. A pillowcase was reported stolen; other property
loss was not known at the time of the report.

Attempted residential burglary: 11:37-11:42 a.m. Feb. 10, 17000 block of Haas
Avenue. Someone entered a yard and was interrupted by a resident. No entry made;
no loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 5:04 a.m. Feb. 11, 2200 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. A
chain securing a gate lock was cut; an attempt was made to pry open a shed. No
entry made; no loss reported.

Commercial burglary: 5:45-7:59 p.m. Feb. 10, 3500 block of Fashion Way. A door
was pried open. Sunglasses were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 5-6:30 p.m. Feb. 5, 2800 block of 235th Street. A bicycle
was reported stolen from a parking garage.

Attempted commercial burglary: 10 p.m. Feb. 8, 2300 block of 208th Street. An
attempt was made to smash a window.

Theft: 10 p.m. Feb. 10 to 9 a.m. Feb. 11, 3600 block of 190th Street. A wet suit
was reported stolen from the front of the location.

Theft: 7:50 a.m. to 12:05 p.m. Feb. 10, 22700 block of Madison Street. A bicycle
was reported stolen from a parking garage.

Theft: 8 p.m. Feb. 8 to 10:47 a.m. Feb. 9, 18900 block of Western Avenue. Wheels
and tires were reported stolen from an unspecified number of vehicles.

Theft: 10 p.m. Feb. 7 to 6:20 a.m. Feb. 8, 21700 block of Western Avenue. Wheels
and tires were reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 5:30-6:15 a.m. Feb. 7, 2500 block of Torrance Boulevard. A wallet was
reported stolen from an unsecured vehicle.

Theft: 2:30-4 p.m. Feb. 6, 2600 block of Pacific Coast Highway. A tailgate was
reported stolen from a vehicle.

Stolen vehicle:

6:30 p.m. Feb. 11 to 10 a.m. Feb. 13, 4100 block of 182nd Street. 2017 Yamaha
motorcycle.

4 p.m. Feb. 11 to 12:16 a.m. Feb. 12, 3500 block of Carson Street. 2004 Ford
Mustang.

3:30 p.m. Feb. 10 to 7:04 a.m. Feb. 12, 16700 block of Glenburn Avenue. 2016
Toyota Sienna.

1:49 p.m. Feb. 8, Carson Street and Abalone Avenue. 2000 Chevrolet Tahoe.

10:30 p.m. Feb. 7 to 8 a.m. Feb. 8, 3900 block of Carson Street. 2007 BMW
motorcycle.

8 p.m. Feb. 6 to 5:40 a.m. Feb. 7, 17000 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. 1999 Dodge
van.

7:24 a.m. Feb. 6, 200 block of Vista del Parque. 1997 Nissan Sentra.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday

Murrieta Man Sentenced to 17 years in Federal Prison for Enticing Girl to Take
Pictures while Engaged in Sexually Explicit Acts

LENGTH: 362  words



Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Central District of
California has issued the following news release:
A Murietta man has been sentenced to 17 years in federal prison after pleading
guilty to enticing a girl who lived in the Seattle area to engage in sexually
explicit activity that resulted in the production of child pornography.


         Curtis Audun Larssen, 33, was sentenced yesterday by United States
District Judge S. James Otero to 210 months in prison.
         Larssen pleaded guilty in June 2017 to one count of using the internet
to induce a minor to engage in criminal sexual activity.
         According to court documents, Larssen directed a girl, who is described
as being no older than 13, to have sexual contact with adult men. Larssen
encouraged the victim to allow him to watch the sexual conduct, and to take
photos and videos to send to Larssen. In one case, the girl sent Larssen a photo
showing her engaged in sexual activity with a 35-year-old man.
         In a plea agreement, Larssen admitted that he used a peer-to-peer
network to trade child pornography. During a search of his residence in 2014,
authorities found in his possession approximately 470 videos depicting child
pornography.
         Once he completes his prison sentence, Larssen will be on supervised
release for the rest of his life.
         Larssen was one of 11 defendants arrested in April 2016 as part of
Operation Wide Net, an investigation conducted by the Los Angeles Internet
Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force. ICAC includes special agents with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's
Homeland Security Investigations and the United States Postal Inspection
Service. These federal law enforcement agencies work with local law enforcement
partners, including the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles
Sheriff's Department.
         The case against Larssen was prosecuted by Assistant United States
Attorney Jennifer Chou of the Violent and Organized Crime Section.
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

Wide lessons from hack, extortion

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 388 words

ABSTRACT

Susan's edit on college hacking.

FULL TEXT

Extortion is an old crime with a fresh new look thanks to international
cyber-criminals. They've made a billion-dollar enterprise out of kidnapping
valuable data by encrypting it, and then demanding a ransom in exchange for a
digital key that restores the computer files to normal.

Los Angeles Valley College was victimized over the holidays. Faculty and staff
found themselves locked out of their computers just as students were arriving
for the first day of the new semester. The campus newspaper reported that a
ransom note demanding $28,000 appeared on the screens of some of the affected
computers, warning that unless the money was sent within seven days - in
bitcoin, a digital currency that's difficult to trace - the data would be
permanently lost.

Los Angeles Community College District Chancellor Francisco Rodriguez said he
consulted with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts before agreeing to pay
the ransom. The college is now in the process of unlocking each of the encrypted
files with the digital key the hackers supplied after they collected the money.

The plague of ransomware, as security experts call it, is not new, but the wide
use of smartphones and tablets has opened new vulnerabilities for hackers to
target. Computers and networks can be infected when an unsuspecting person
receives an email that appears to be from a legitimate source but contains a
link to malicious code. When the link is clicked, the virus encrypts all the
files on the computer, freezes the screen and sometimes blasts out a jangling
warning with a demand for cash.

Police in London recently warned schools that hackers are posing as government
officials and calling school offices to get contact information for head
teachers, who are then targeted with authentic-looking emails that link to
ransomware.

Individuals may be targeted for a few hundred dollars, but businesses, schools
and hospitals have been hit for much more. In February, Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center paid $17,000 - in bitcoin - to restore access to patient files.

To resist attacks, cybersecurity experts recommend regular procedures for
backing up files, keeping the backups separate from the network, and training
staff members to recognize suspicious emails.

That's a better solution than paying ransom.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                            January 20, 2017 Friday

Wide lessons from hack, extortion

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 388 words

ABSTRACT

Susan's edit on college hacking.

FULL TEXT

Extortion is an old crime with a fresh new look thanks to international
cyber-criminals. They've made a billion-dollar enterprise out of kidnapping
valuable data by encrypting it, and then demanding a ransom in exchange for a
digital key that restores the computer files to normal.

Los Angeles Valley College was victimized over the holidays. Faculty and staff
found themselves locked out of their computers just as students were arriving
for the first day of the new semester. The campus newspaper reported that a
ransom note demanding $28,000 appeared on the screens of some of the affected
computers, warning that unless the money was sent within seven days - in
bitcoin, a digital currency that's difficult to trace - the data would be
permanently lost.

Los Angeles Community College District Chancellor Francisco Rodriguez said he
consulted with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts before agreeing to pay
the ransom. The college is now in the process of unlocking each of the encrypted
files with the digital key the hackers supplied after they collected the money.

The plague of ransomware, as security experts call it, is not new, but the wide
use of smartphones and tablets has opened new vulnerabilities for hackers to
target. Computers and networks can be infected when an unsuspecting person
receives an email that appears to be from a legitimate source but contains a
link to malicious code. When the link is clicked, the virus encrypts all the
files on the computer, freezes the screen and sometimes blasts out a jangling
warning with a demand for cash.

Police in London recently warned schools that hackers are posing as government
officials and calling school offices to get contact information for head
teachers, who are then targeted with authentic-looking emails that link to
ransomware.

Individuals may be targeted for a few hundred dollars, but businesses, schools
and hospitals have been hit for much more. In February, Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center paid $17,000 - in bitcoin - to restore access to patient files.

To resist attacks, cybersecurity experts recommend regular procedures for
backing up files, keeping the backups separate from the network, and training
staff members to recognize suspicious emails.

That's a better solution than paying ransom.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Wide lessons from Valley College hack

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB. Susan's edit on Valley College hacking.

FULL TEXT

Extortion is an old crime with a fresh new look thanks to international
cyber-criminals. They've made a billion-dollar enterprise out of kidnapping
valuable data by encrypting it, and then demanding a ransom in exchange for a
digital key that restores the computer files to normal.

Los Angeles Valley College was victimized over the holidays. Faculty and staff
found themselves locked out of their computers just as students were arriving
for the first day of the new semester. The campus newspaper reported that a
ransom note demanding $28,000 appeared on the screens of some of the affected
computers, warning that unless the money was sent within seven days - in
bitcoin, a digital currency that's difficult to trace - the data would be
permanently lost.

Los Angeles Community College District Chancellor Francisco Rodriguez said he
consulted with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts before agreeing to pay
the ransom. The college is now in the process of unlocking each of the encrypted
files with the digital key the hackers supplied after they collected the money.

The plague of ransomware, as security experts call it, is not new, but the wide
use of smartphones and tablets has opened new vulnerabilities for hackers to
target. Computers and networks can be infected when an unsuspecting person
receives an email that appears to be from a legitimate source but contains a
link to malicious code. When the link is clicked, the virus encrypts all the
files on the computer, freezes the screen and sometimes blasts out a jangling
warning with a demand for cash.

Police in London recently warned schools that hackers are posing as government
officials and calling school offices to get contact information for head
teachers, who are then targeted with authentic-looking emails that link to
ransomware.

Individuals may be targeted for a few hundred dollars, but businesses, schools
and hospitals have been hit for much more. In February, Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center paid $17,000 - in bitcoin - to restore access to patient files.

To resist attacks, cybersecurity experts recommend regular procedures for
backing up files, keeping the backups separate from the network, and training
staff members to recognize suspicious emails.

That's a better solution than paying ransom.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Wide lessons from Valley College hack

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 393 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB. Susan's edit on Valley College hacking.

FULL TEXT

Extortion is an old crime with a fresh new look thanks to international
cyber-criminals. They've made a billion-dollar enterprise out of kidnapping
valuable data by encrypting it, and then demanding a ransom in exchange for a
digital key that restores the computer files to normal.

Los Angeles Valley College was victimized over the holidays. Faculty and staff
found themselves locked out of their computers just as students were arriving
for the first day of the new semester. The campus newspaper reported that a
ransom note demanding $28,000 appeared on the screens of some of the affected
computers, warning that unless the money was sent within seven days - in
bitcoin, a digital currency that's difficult to trace - the data would be
permanently lost.

Los Angeles Community College District Chancellor Francisco Rodriguez said he
consulted with law enforcement and cybersecurity experts before agreeing to pay
the ransom. The college is now in the process of unlocking each of the encrypted
files with the digital key the hackers supplied after they collected the money.

The plague of ransomware, as security experts call it, is not new, but the wide
use of smartphones and tablets has opened new vulnerabilities for hackers to
target. Computers and networks can be infected when an unsuspecting person
receives an email that appears to be from a legitimate source but contains a
link to malicious code. When the link is clicked, the virus encrypts all the
files on the computer, freezes the screen and sometimes blasts out a jangling
warning with a demand for cash.

Police in London recently warned schools that hackers are posing as government
officials and calling school offices to get contact information for head
teachers, who are then targeted with authentic-looking emails that link to
ransomware.

Individuals may be targeted for a few hundred dollars, but businesses, schools
and hospitals have been hit for much more. In February, Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center paid $17,000 - in bitcoin - to restore access to patient files.

To resist attacks, cybersecurity experts recommend regular procedures for
backing up files, keeping the backups separate from the network, and training
staff members to recognize suspicious emails.

That's a better solution than paying ransom.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            January 22, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Crime-drama star Ferrer remembered for 'huge heart'

BYLINE: Frazier Moore, The Associated Press

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. B12

LENGTH: 228 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Miguel Ferrer, who brought stern authority to his featured role on the CBS hit
NCIS: Los Angeles and before that to NBC crime drama Crossing Jordan, has died.
CBS said Ferrer died Jan. 19 of cancer at his Los Angeles home. He was 61.

He had played assistant director Owen Granger on NCIS: Los Angeles since 2012.
Before that, he played the chief medical examiner and gruff-but-supportive boss
to Edmonton-born series star Jill Hennessy for the six seasons of Crossing
Jordan.

Born Feb. 7, 1955 in Santa Monica, Calif., Miguel José Ferrer was the son of
Academy Award-winning actor José Ferrer and singer-actress Rosemary Clooney.
That made him a cousin of George Clooney, who issued a statement, referencing
the U.S. inauguration day.

"Today, history will mark giant changes in our world," Clooney said, "and lost
to most will be that on the same day Miguel Ferrer lost his battle to throat
cancer. But not lost to his family."

NCIS: Los Angeles showrunner R. Scott Gemmill called Ferrer "a man of tremendous
talent who had a powerful dramatic presence onscreen, a wicked sense of humour
and a huge heart."

Before becoming an actor, Ferrer was a successful studio musician who played
drums in a variety of bands, touring with his mother and Bing Crosby. Survivors
include his wife Lori and sons Lukas and Rafi. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CBS; Miguel Ferrer played assistant director Owen Granger in NCIS: Los
Angeles. Ferrer died Thursday at age 61.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The Vancouver Province
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             March 24, 2017 Friday

ICE agent linked to organized crime;
He's accused of trying to get Mexican national back into U.S. illegally

BYLINE: Brian Rokos; brokos@scng.com @Brian_Rokos on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words


A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent who lives in Murrieta was in
court Thursdayto answer to a charge that he helped a Mexican national illegally
re-enter the United States.

Federal prosecutors filed charges Wednesday alleging that Felix Cisneros, 42,
acting at the behest of the leader of a Southern California organized-crime
group, intervened when customs agents tried to prevent the Mexican national from
re-entering the country, according to a Department of Justice news release and
an affidavit contained in the criminal complaint.

Cisneros, who was arrested Wednesday, appeared in U.S. District Court in Los
Angeles on Thursday and was not asked to enter a plea, Department of Justice
spokesman Thom Mrozek said. Cisneros waived a preliminary hearing to determine

whether there is enough evidence to hold him for trial, Mrozek said. Bail was
set at $300,000. Cisneros is due to enter a plea April 27.

He could be imprisoned for up to 10 years, if convicted.

A message left with a Felix Cisneros who lives in Murrieta was not returned
Thursday. Though several cars were parked in the driveway at an address listed
for Cisneros, no one answered the door.

Cisneros is a 10-year ICE veteran, the release said. He works as a special agent
investigating money laundering and human trafficking out of the ICE Homeland
Security Investigations' San Bernardino-Riverside office.

The person whom Cisneros is accused of assisting began working for the
government in Cisneros' case in 2016 as a confidential informant. The Mexican
national secretly recorded conversations in which Cisneros incriminated himself,
according to the affidavit written by an FBI agent.

The informant also gave the government information on the case. The deportation
proceedings against him were permanently dismissed as long as he continues to
cooperate with the government in this and other cases, the affidavit said.

Conversation recorded

The affidavit did not explain how authorities believe Cisneros came to know the
organized-crime figure or whether Cisneros was paid. In one of the recorded
conversations, the affidavit said, "Cisneros was not doing any more favors for
Co-Conspirator 1 (the crime figure)  and his associates because they did not
want to pay him."

The affidavit did say that Cisneros and a guest, and the Mexican national and a
guest, attended the Oct. 6, 2013, National League playoff game in Los Angeles
between the Dodgers and Atlanta Braves after the Mexican national purchased four
tickets for $250 each as thanks for Cisneros' assistance.

The affidavit provided this account of the case:

Since at least 2013, the Mexican national had been traveling to Mexico on behalf
of the crime figure to negotiate with a company involved in oil and gas.

Passport trouble

In August 2013, the crime leader asked the Mexican national to return to Mexico
for more negotiations. But the man, a legal permanent U.S. resident, said he
would not be able to return to the U.S. because his passport had been
confiscated when he re-entered the country in July.

At that time, there was a warrant out for his arrest in Burbank on a bad-check
charge. Border agents seized his passport during that July return, and he was
told to report to an immigration office in Los Angeles until his criminal case
was resolved.

It was then that the crime figure asked Cisneros for help.

On Aug. 30, 2013, Cisneros arranged for a border agent to return the Mexican
national's passport. The man then went to Mexico on Sept. 2 and returned Sept.
9, arriving at Los Angeles International Airport.

Cisneros called border agents at LAX and persuaded them to allow the man into
the country despite convictions that included identity theft and making false
financial statements, and despite the Burbank warrant. Investigators believe
Cisneros misled the agents on why the man should be allowed back in, possibly
saying he was a trial witness or confidential informant.

The man has also admitted bribing an unidentified "local politician" on behalf
of the crime figure and an unidentified state prosecutor, the affidavit said.

Staff writers Anne Millerbernd and Alex Groves contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 355 words

ABSTRACT

RPE Tuesday (3/14) QOTW

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to letters@pe.com Please include your full name and city or
community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you prefer, share
your views in the comments section that accompanies this article online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 356 words

ABSTRACT

OCR Tuesday (3/14) QOTW

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to letters@ocregister.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             March 14, 2017 Tuesday

What is causing upticks in crime?

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 360 words

ABSTRACT

Question of the Week editorial for all LANG papers.

FULL TEXT

Crime has been rising in many Southern California cities after years of
improvement, leaving policymakers grasping for explanations and solutions.

What is causing the recent upticks in crime?

That's our Question of the Week for Opinion page readers.

Crime trends differ from place to place, but many are similar to what statistics
show in the city of Los Angeles, where a 10 percent rise in violent crime from
2015 to 2016 marked the third consecutive annual increase.

Even with crime rates higher the past few years, Los Angeles-area residents
remain a lot safer than we were during the 1990s. Homicides in the city in 2016
numbered 294; that number peaked in 1992 at 1,092.

Still, any change demands analysis.

What has changed?

There are differences of opinion about the effects on crime of changes in
criminal justice policies brought on by Assembly Bill 109's prison realignment
(moving nonviolent offenders from state prisons to county jails), Proposition 47
(reducing some property and drug crimes from felonies to misdemeanors) and the
newly passed Proposition 57 (early release of "nonviolent" criminals). What
effects do you see?

Is the criminal justice system spending too much or too little money and effort
on incarceration? Is it spending too much or too little on rehabilitating
convicts and helping them to return to society?

To what extent are crime trends a function of police staffing, and decisions
about police deployment? Are the answers as simple as having cities spend more
money on their police forces?

How does the rising problem of homelessness play into crime?

President Trump has sought to blame a lot of crime on undocumented immigrant
gang members. Is he correct, or is he scapegoating? How do discussions of crime
and immigration intertwine?

What do you see in your part of Southern California?

Email your thoughts to opinion@langnews.com Please include your full name and
city or community of residence. Provide a daytime phone number. Or, if you
prefer, share your views in the comments section that accompanies this article
online.

We'll publish as many responses as possible.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            March 25, 2017 Saturday

Suspect in attack on pastor identified;
Arrest warrant issued for Pacoima man who is accused in beating

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 471 words

ABSTRACT

A news conference about pastor Rudy Trujillo is set for 4 p.m. Friday in San
Fernando.

FULL TEXT

Police now say they know who brutally attacked a San Fernando pastor, and
they're releasing new details about the suspect.

A felony arrest warrant has been issued for Henry Dominguez Chacon, 53, in
connection with the beating of Pastor Rudy Trujillo, San Fernando Police
Department Lt. Nichole Hanchett said at a news conference Friday.

Trujillo was attacked in broad daylight Wednesday in the 700 block of North
Maclay Avenue.

As for Chacon, he has no convictions and actually dialed 911 right after the
beating and requested an ambulance, according to police.

"Very bizarre, nothing that I've encountered in my 22 plus years of law
enforcement," Hanchett said about the 911 call. "But I certainly applaud him for
doing that, and again that's why we appeal to Mr. Chacon to come to the San
Fernando Police Department and please turn yourself in and provide your side of
the story."

Chacon is facing felony assault and felony vandalism charges, Hanchett said. The
vandalism charge was added because the suspect stomped on Trujillo's cellphone.

The Pacoima man is described as a Hispanic male, 5 feet 11 inches tall, weighing
approximately 210 pounds with black hair and brown eyes. Authorities said he was
last

seen in a 1990 white Dodge van with the license plate 4BVH325.

Additionally, the lieutenant described a cellphone video that shows Chacon
approaching the pastor while he is in his car and the suspect "takes him out of
the car and there is a fight that takes place to the rear."

After Hanchett spoke, Rudy Trujillo's son Josh Trujillo read a short statement
from his father, who is recovering from hip replacement surgery as a result of
the attack.

"Truly I feel the love of community," the pastor said in the statement, while
thanking his family, friends, the Police Department, city officials and others.
"We do pray for the perpetrator and his family. We pray that others will not be
hurt in the future. We pray for the safety and well-being of the community."

Josh Trujillo, 34, of Sylmar said his father has a "bionic hip now" after his
hip was broken, and he was set to be released from the hospital. He also praised
the community for its support.

Of the suspect, Josh said he was "a former parishioner, very quiet, kept to
himself. That's really all I can say. We've heard the reports he's been having a
lot of mental issues as of late. So that's all we have to go on as of right
now."

A Stop The Violence event previously set for 7 p.m. on Wednesdayat the Faith
Center, 777 N. Maclay Ave., will still take place, Josh Trujillo said on
Thursday.

"Knowing him, he will probably be there," Josh Trujillo said about his father.

Anyone with information on the suspect may call the San Fernando Police
Department at 818-898-1267.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Council member targets burglaries;
Motion made to set up $50K fund to catch 'knock-knock' thieves

BYLINE: Elizabeth Chou; echou@scng.com @reporterliz on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 635 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles City Councilman Mitch Englander proposes reward to catch
'knock-knock' burglars.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles City Councilman Mitchell Englander is hoping to provide extra
incentive to pawnbrokers and others who may be able to help authorities bring
down "knock-knock"burglary rings that target upscale homes in the San Fernando
Valley and other parts of the city.

Englander on Wednesday introduced a motion, seconded by Councilman Bob
Blumenfield, calling for a $50,000 reward to be offered for information to help
authorities identify, arrest and convict people "responsible for this series of
'knock-knock' burglaries."


Such burglaries have been "a growing epidemic throughout the San Fernando Valley
and throughout the city of Los Angeles," Englander said during a news conference
Wednesday, prior to making the motion.

The proposed reward is aimed at the public, particularly pawnshop owners and
employees, who "are the first people who are going to know, particularly when
they get repeat offenders who are bringing in stolen merchandise," Englander
said.

These burglaries "are not victimless crimes," he said, adding that some of the
stolen jewelry include "family heirlooms" that cannot be replaced.

While the motion was introduced amid a spate of "knock-knock" style burglaries,
Englander noted the reward is actually being offered to anyone with a tip about
any type of residential burglary, no matter the method, as it is sometimes
difficult to know what method a burglar used.

The motion, which is expected to be voted on next week, needs City Council
approval before the reward can be offered.

In February, the Los Angeles Police Department launched a San Fernando Valley
Knock Knock Burglary Task Force to address the problem.

News of the task force came amid a rash of high profile break-ins, including at
the Tarzana home of Los Angeles Lakers player Nick Young and the Sherman Oaks
residence of Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig.

According to the LAPD, the suspects work in teams of three or four. One person
knocks on the door of a home and if no one answers, they will signal to the
others, who try to enter from a side or rear entrance of the home.

LAPD officials said Wednesday the alleged rings appear to be based mostly in
South Los Angeles, with the burglars using more sophisticated methods than in
the past.

The burglars "have been operating in the Valley for some time, and they have
really taken the game to the next level from the beginning of this year," Valley
Bureau Cmdr. Jorge Rodriguez said.

The burglars are monitoring when people typically leave their homes, as well as
driving cars and wearing clothes that help them blend into the neighborhood,
according to LAPD officials.

Among the hardest hit areas are Porter Ranch, Chatsworth and Granada Hills,
Devonshire Division Lt. Tim Torsney said.

The Devonshire Division, which patrols those communities, has recorded a spike
in burglaries that goes against the trend in most of the Valley. As of March 25,
336 burglaries were reported, up from 249 burglaries from the same time last
year, for the area alone, according to figures released by the LAPD.

Out of the additional 87 burglaries this year, the majority appear to have been
committed using "knock-knock" methods, Devonshire Division Capt. Kathleen Burns
said.

LAPD figures also show burglaries in the Van Nuys Division are up 31 percent
from last year.

Torsney noted police have made some inroads on "knock-knock" burglary crimes.

"Within the last two months we've made significant arrests of multiple crews
with no affiliation with one another, which has resulted in a significant
decrease over the last two weeks in the area," Torsney said.

Even with the improvements, Englander said the job is not done.

"The arrests are happening, but the crimes are not stopping," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
            DONOR: Citi Community Development (in collaboration with
                    Mayor's Fund for Los Angeles) ('15 '17)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000 - 99,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Citi Community Development (in collaboration with Mayor's Fund for Los
Angeles) ('15 '17)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              407 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday
                                 Met 2 Edition

James turns somber after racism hits home

BYLINE: Adam Kilgore

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, CALIF.


OAKLAND, Calif. - LeBron James issued a searing and personal response to the
discovery of racist graffiti spray-painted outside his Los Angeles home early
Wednesday, using a news conference to deliver a somber soliloquy about race in
America on the eve of the NBA Finals. James explicitly placed his social
standing as the world's best basketball player ahead of preparation for perhaps
the most anticipated series of his career.

"I think back to Emmett Till's mom, actually," James said. "That's one of the
first things I thought of. The reason she had an open casket was that she wanted
to show the world what her son went through as far as a hate crime and being
black in America. No matter how much money you have, no matter how famous you
are, no matter how many people admire you, being black in America is tough.
We've got a long way to go, for us as a society and for us as African Americans,
until we feel equal in America."

Police said the n-word had been spray-painted across the front gate of a home
James owns in Los Angeles. The LAPD said it would investigate the vandalism as a
hate crime and examine security camera footage from nearby homes to identify a
suspect. James lives in the house in the offseason, and he and his family were
not living in the home at the time.

James said his family is safe, "and that's most important." But the crime
visibly rattled him. At his news conference at Oracle Arena, where his Cleveland
Cavaliers will open their title defense in a third consecutive Finals meeting
with the Golden State Warriors on Thursday night, James appeared shaken but
resolute. He wore a white T-shirt emblazoned with a photo of Muhammad Ali's
face. He measured his words and frequently paused to swallow hard.

"Obviously," he said, "you see I'm not my normal energetic self."

James also seized the incident as an opportunity to prove how extensive racism
remains in America. If somebody of James's stature is not immune to a potential
hate crime, James reasoned, the graffiti showed the pervasiveness of hate. In
that way, he welcomed the maliciousness.

"As I sit here on the eve of one of the greatest sporting events that we have in
sports, race and what's going on comes again and on my behalf and on my family's
behalf," James said. "But I look at it as, if this can shed light and continue
to keep the conversation going on my behalf, then I'm okay with it. . . . It
just goes to show that racism will always be a part of the world, a part of
America. Hate in America, especially for African Americans, is with them every
day. Even though it's concealed most of the time, people hide their faces, say
things about you. When they see you, they smile in your face. It's alive every
single day."

"Surprising, no," James later added in an interview with ESPN. "I still
understand how race plays a part in America. For me to be here and have to
answer questions about racism, it just lets me know that it's still here, and we
should all know that. If it takes for someone to spray my gate and use that
derogatory term, that hate, on my family to shed a light on what the real issue
is in the world, then so be it."

While James has become a willing megaphone for social causes in the second
decade of his career, he had difficulty processing the potential effect on his
family. The primary source of his consternation, he said, was being away from
his three children, a daughter and two sons.

"The most unfortunate part is that I can't be home right now," James said. "I
can't be home to see my kids. My little girl is actually too young to understand
it right now. I can't sit in front of my boys right now, and I won't be home
until next week. It's kind of killing me inside right now. My wife is
unbelievable, my mother, my mother-in-law, my sister-in-law, they're going to do
a great job when they get home from school today.

"At the end of the day, I'll be focused on [Thursday], on our game plan and
focused on these games. I'm at a point in my life where my priorities are in
place, and basketball comes second to my family. I will be as focused as I can
be on the job at hand [Thursday]. This is a situation where it puts me back in
place as far as what's actually more important. Basketball is not the most
important thing in my life."

Teammates asserted their belief the incident would not affect James, who willed
the Cavaliers to Cleveland's first championship last season by reversing a
three-games-to-one series deficit against the Warriors.

"I know 'Bron. I know how locked in he is," Cavaliers forward Tristan Thompson
said. "Nothing like this is going to affect his psyche in terms of the Finals.
Obviously, the world is crazy nowadays. People have bad intentions. We just got
to be there for him and know he's a tough guy."

"It's unfortunate," said Cavaliers forward Richard Jefferson, one of the
league's most respected veterans. "He does such a great job of not letting those
things be a distraction. It sucks, not only for him as a grown man. I think he
can handle that. But that feeling of wanting to make sure your kids feel safe,
that your family feels safe, I think that is the part that is most frustrating
as a man.

"We deal with these types of things on a daily basis. The things that we've seen
and had to deal with, a lot of times they might not even get picked up on."

On Wednesday, James was both downbeat and an eager messenger. He also vowed his
focus would be on basketball by tip-off Thursday night.

"It will pass," James said. "That's fine. I'm figuring it out. I'm thinking
about my kids a lot."

adam.kilgore@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Officials OK $3M migrant aid fund;
Deportations could be fought, but crimes make many ineligible

BYLINE: Susan Abram; sabram@scng.com @sabramLA on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

ABSTRACT

LA County Board of Supervisors approves $3 million for LA Justice Fund, to
assist undocumented immigrants.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County will drop $3 million into a legal defense fund to help
undocumented immigrants and others facing deportation after the Board of
Supervisors voted 4 to 1 Tuesday to approve the allocation.

The vote means the LA Justice Fund,first proposed in Decemberby Los Angeles city
and county officials in response to President Donald Trump's hard stance on
immigrants in the country illegally, is closer to its $10 million goal.

About two dozen speakers from various organizations such as the NAACP of Pomona,
Asian Ameri

cans Advancing Justice-LA and the Guadalupe Homeless Project spoke in favor of
the fund Tuesday and thanked the board for the money.

"The county's $3 million contribution will give immigrants facing deportation a
fighting chance that they did not have before," said Eric Hubbard, development
director of Jovenes Inc., which provides homeless youth in Los Angeles with
shelter and housing. "We hear their stories everyday and believe they should be
afforded due process and representation."

But some were disappointed that the funds did not go far enough. Legal
representation would not be provided to people who have been convicted of, or
who are currently appealing a conviction for a violent felony. That includes
murder, rape, inflicting bodily harm, sexual assault, carjacking, extortion and
threats to victims or witnesses, and other crimes.

"We are disappointed that the LA Justice Fund does not address all the legal
needs of all Angelenos," said Martin Garcia, a member of LA Voice, a community
group that aims to improve the quality of life in L.A.

Those who do qualify would be people with close ties to Los Angeles County whose
family members are U.S. citizens, or who are lawful permanent individuals with
community ties, or those who are deferred action for childhood arrivals or DACA
recipients. Also qualifying are those who are heads of a household with one or
more dependent family members, unaccompanied childrenand veterans. Victims of
domestic violence or human trafficking also will be considered, according to the
agreement.

Supervisor Hilda Solis said the goal is to help people in need navigate a tricky
legal process.

"Today, the board took a significant step to create a safety net for immigrants,
one that is pro-family, pro-economic growth and stability, and pro-civil and
human rights," Solis said in a statement. "The LA Justice Fund will be able to
help those individuals who have simply been trying to make a better life for
themselves and their families."

It takes $5,000 to fund an immigration case, according to the Boston Immigrant
Justice Initiative, Solis said in a joint statement with Supervisor Janice Hahn.

About 7,000 Los Angeles County residents face removal proceedings without a
lawyer each year, they added.

Supervisor Sheila Kuehl, who also voted to approve allocating the money, said
she understood the disappointment expressed by some community leaders. Under the
Trump administration, she added, the federal government doesn't distinguish
between serious crimes and people "who steal popcorn at a movie theater."

"I wish there were a way not to exclude," Kuehl said of those who have crimes in
their past. "So many people have paid their dues to society, have paid  the
price and served their time. So I wish there was a way to at least look at their
lives."

Supervisor Kathryn Barger cast the lone dissenting vote, saying that the
deportations are occurring because of a broken immigration system.

"It is the federal government's responsibility to support states and counties in
their efforts to address the costs of illegal immigration," she said."County
taxpayers should not be forced to bear the cost to provide free legal
representation for those facing deportation."

One anti-immigration group, We the People Rising, said in a statement the county
should use the funds to help American citizens.

"This $3 million allotment should be expended to help homeless American
families, our veterans, disabled American citizens and the unemployed, who are
suffering by the thousands throughout the county," said Robin Hvidston,
executive director of the group.

The board's approval means $1 million will be contributed to the fund in the
upcoming fiscal year, and another $2 million in the 2018-2019 fiscal year.

Staff writer Elizabeth Chou contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                            July 26, 2017 Wednesday

California man accused of smuggling king cobras in potato chip cans

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 305 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man was arrested on federal smuggling charges Tuesday after customs
officers intercepted a shipment with three live king cobras hidden inside potato
chip canisters that were being mailed to his California home, U.S. prosecutors
said.


By MICHAEL BALSAMO

LOS ANGELES (AP)  A man was arrested on federal smuggling charges Tuesday after
customs officers intercepted a shipment with three live king cobras hidden
inside potato chip canisters that were being mailed to his California home, U.S.
prosecutors said.

Rodrigo Franco, 34, was scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday afternoon in Los
Angeles on a charge of illegally importing merchandise. It wasnt immediately
clear if he had an attorney who could comment on the allegations.

The three king cobra snakes  each about two feet (just over half a meter) long
were found in March when Customs and Border Protection officers inspected a
package that was mailed from Hong Kong, prosecutors said. There were also three
albino Chinese soft-shelled turtles in the package, authorities said.

Federal agents removed the cobras but delivered the turtles to Francos home in
Monterey Park.

The agents later served a search warrant there and found tanks with a live baby
Morelets crocodile, alligator snapping turtles, a common snapping turtle, and
five diamond back terrapins. Prosecutors say all of the reptiles are protected
under U.S. law.

Franco admitted to an agent from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that he had
previously received 20 king cobras in two other shipments, but he said they all
died in transit, according to court documents.

Federal agents also searched Francos phone and found that he exchanged messages
with an individual in Asia about shipping turtles and snakes between Hong Kong
and the U.S., prosecutors said. Franco said in those messages that he had
previously received live cobras and planned to give five of the snakes to a
relative of the contact in Virginia, court papers said.

If convicted, Franco faces up to 20 years in prison.

___

Follow Michael Balsamo on Twitter at http://twitter.com/MikeBalsamo1 .

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             July 11, 2017 Tuesday

Rescuers robbed at gunpoint trying to aid distressed California hiker

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 516 words



HIGHLIGHT: Add armed robbery to the threats facing hikers this year on the
Pacific Crest Trail.


By BRIAN MELLEY

LOS ANGELES  Add armed robbery to the threats facing hikers this year on the
Pacific Crest Trail.

A section of the popular trail, which runs from Mexico to Canada, remained
closed Monday as Kern County SWAT team members joined deputies to search for two
armed men who robbed rescuers trying to aid a distressed hiker.

The incident Saturday in the remote Piute Mountains about 85 miles north of Los
Angeles occurred after hiker Charles Brandenburg became dehydrated in scorching
heat and activated a rescue device that allowed him to send text messages to
authorities.

Hikers trying to complete the 2,650-mile trail have encountered several
challenges from an exceptionally wet winter that left a persistent snowpack and
has made for arduous plodding and presented several hazards. Several hikers have
been injured, and others have reported close calls scaling icy passes and
fording raging rivers.

Brandenburg had left the trail for three weeks in June to give the snowpack more
time to melt before he tackled the rugged high Sierra Nevada. However, the delay
meant he was hiking through extreme desert heat in the past week, with
diminishing options for water along the way.

I needed water really bad, Brandenburg said. I undercut it. It was a mistake on
my part.

After hiking through heat as high as 110 degrees, he became extremely dehydrated
Friday and began dry heaving and cramping.

He awoke at 4 a.m. Saturday, hoping to hike before it got hot, but he had about
a cup of water left and was nine miles short of his water stop. He only made it
a few miles before he called for help.

Four volunteers with the Kern County Search and Rescue team set out on foot to
bring Brandenburg water and became separated, Sgt. Zack Bittle said. One pair
turned down the wrong trail, where they encountered the robbers who stole their
radios.

The rescuers were unharmed, but they were followed by the gunmen as they hiked
back toward the Pacific Crest Trail, Bittle said. Eventually, the two men ran
off.

Its extremely rare for rescuers to be assaulted, but its not unheard of. Last
year, a volunteer rescuer searching for a missing hiker was shot and wounded
near the South Yuba River in Northern California.

While Brandenburg waited for help to arrive, other hikers showed up and gave him
some water and waited with him.

What he expected would take a couple hours turned into about a 12-hour ordeal as
he learned by text message about the robbery and was told to stay put until a
helicopter could airlift him and the others to safety.

Brandenburg, 55, of Mendocino, said one man hid in the sparse forest while they
waited for help. But he and two others werent sure how seriously to take the
warning until the helicopter arrived and lowered a SWAT officer in camouflage to
the ground.

Then we knew it was real, he said. It was really a trip. It was like a movie.

In addition to searching for the armed men, deputies were trying to determine
Monday if the trail could be reopened.

Brandenburg decided to move to higher ground, hoping to hitch a ride to Kennedy
Meadows in the Southern Sierra to resume his trek.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 4, 2017 Friday

Sheriff fears Trump's immigration policies may cost county millions

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com, @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell says he's concerned that President
Donald Trump's administration could exclude the department for up to $132
million in federal law enforcement grants over the next three years as penalty
for its limited cooperation with immigration officials.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell says he has been lobbying President
Donald Trump's administration to avoid potentially losing out on as much as $132
million in federal law enforcement grants over the next three years due to the
department's immigration policies.

During recent trips to Washington D.C., McDonnell said he has met with U.S.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions, former Department of Homeland Security Secretary
John F. Kelly - now Trump's chief of staff - as well as Congress

members to urge against any restrictions or cuts to future federal grants.

The Trump administration has begun cracking down on so-called "sanctuary"
jurisdictions that it says protect undocumented immigrants who have committed
crimes while undermining the nation's laws.

Latest threat

On Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions sent letters to four cities -
including two in California - threatening to deny federal crime-fighting aid if
the cities don't step up efforts to help detain and deport people living in the
country illegally.

The targeted cities - which have all struggled with crime - are Stockton, San
Bernardino, Baltimore and Albuquerque, New Mexico. All expressed interest in the
Justice Department's new Public Safety Partnership, federal officials said. The
program provides assistance from federal agents, analysts and technology to find
solutions to crime.

While the Justice Department did not target any communities in L.A. County in
its latest move to punish so-called sanctuary cities, McDonnell has said the
county's limited cooperation with federal immigration officers strikes a
necessary balance between public safety and public trust.

"It would have a negative impact on public safety on L.A. County and Southern
California," McDonnell said in a recent phone interview of the potential loss of
resources.

The bulk of federal grant funds that McDonnell fears could ultimately be in
question - $105 million of the $132 million - would come from DHS for the
continued development of a system to enhance radio and broadband communication
for police, firefighters, paramedics and other emergency responders in the
county.

The Los Angeles Regional Interoperable Communications System, which has been in
the works since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, would also improve
communication between local agencies and their state and federal partners.

"It allows various departments to communicate with each other, particularly
during times of emergency but on a regular basis as well," McDonnell said.

New rules for grant

For now, only a small fraction of the $132 million in federal grants that the
Sheriff's Department would expect to benefit from in the next three years
appears to be in jeopardy. The U.S. Department of Justice announced new
conditions last week for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants
Program, a crime-fighting program that helps communities target their most
pressing needs.

Los Angeles County received $1.17 million in the so-called Byrne JAG funds for
drug enforcement, education and prevention for 2017, according to county
documents.

L.A. County's Office of County Counsel is still reviewing these new conditions
to determine if the Sheriff's Department would be considered compliant, said
L.A. County Assistant Sheriff Eddie Rivero, who is McDonnell's point person on
immigration matters. The Justice Department declined to comment specifically on
the Sheriff's Department's policies.

One of the new conditions requires jurisdictions to allow federal immigration
officers into detention facilities. While the Sheriff's Department allows U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement access to interview certain inmates in jails
and to pick them up at the time of their release, it restricts the agency's
access to those with serious offenses specified under the state's Trust Act -
though it's not required to do so.

The Sheriff's Department believes that limiting ICE's access to these serious
offenders helps it continue "to build trust within the community," Rivero said.

Some immigrant rights advocates argue the sheriff should not cooperate with ICE
at all.

Federal funding 'critical' for safety

Besides the Byrne JAG grants, sheriff's officials say they're concerned that
similar conditions could also be placed on other federal grant programs the
department has been benefiting from. If so, a Justice Department program that
provides some reimbursement to state and local governments for the costs of
incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens could also be at risk. Grant funds
benefiting the Los Angeles Regional Human Trafficking Task Force and the Los
Angeles Joint Regional Taskforce, which is a regional anti-terrorism effort,
might also be impacted, officials said.

"Federal grant funding is critical for the safety of our communities," Rivero
said in a written statement. "The loss of these funds would be detrimental to
advancements in technology, the fight against terrorism, narcotics trafficking,
human trafficking and many other vital programs."

The department would have to seek other sources, such as state and county
funding, if these funds were no longer available, Rivero said.

Complicating matters is state Senate Bill 54,  sometimes referred to as the
"sanctuary state" bill, which would prohibit the use of state and local public
resources to aid ICE agents in deportation actions. That bill has been passed by
the state Senate and is making its way through the Assembly.

McDonnell noted that his primary concern is not financial but about keeping and
maintaining the public's trust.

"If we lose that, we put the safety of everyone in all of our communities at
greater risk," he said.

Los Angeles County Supervisor Kathryn Barger said in a statement that she
supports the sheriff's efforts to ensure the "highest possible level of public
safety."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           September 17, 2017 Sunday

'Sanctuary state' bill has sheriff's, chief's OK;
Top LAPD, L.A. County law enforcement officials now back California Values Act

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words

ABSTRACT

Sanctuary support

FULL TEXT

With Gov. Jerry Brown expected to sign Senate Bill 54 to make California a
so-called sanctuary state, local law enforcement officials on Saturday expressed
support and cautious optimism for the measure that would provide protections for
illegal immigrants.

"SB 54 recognizes what has worked in Los Angeles for nearly four decades," Los
Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said. "We have reduced crime by building
strong partnerships with our communities, regardless of civil immigration
status.

"We are committed to reducing crime through community partnerships and
constitutional policing and SB 54 enables us to continue abiding by these
effective principles," Beck said.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell said the revised bill will preserve his
department's ability to maintain partnerships with federal law enforcement in
the fight against gangs, drugs and human trafficking.

"I strongly opposed SB 54 as initially introduced, because I viewed it as a
threat to public safety," McDonnell said Saturday. "... SB 54, as passed by the
Legislature, is a very different bill today.

"Thanks to the leadership of Gov. Brown and his staff and members of the state
Senate and Assembly, we can move beyond the bill's early false premise that
local enforcement was going to act as immigration agents. This is fundamentally
not true."

The bill, known as the California Values Act, provides protections for
immigrants who are in the country illegally, but also was altered recently at
the request of Brown to give local law enforcement more freedom to work with
federal immigration officials and to hold individuals for federal authorities if
they have been convicted of a felony or some other serious crimes.

"SB 54 clearly reflects what is working in Los Angeles County and the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department," McDonnell said.

"While not perfect, SB 54 kept intact our ability to maintain partnerships with
federal law enforcement officials who help us in the fight against gangs, drugs
and human trafficking. It also retains the controlled access that the United
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement has to our jails."

The bill, authored by Sen. Kevin de Le[#xfffd]n, D-Los Angeles, the state Senate
pro tem, passed his chamber 27-11 on a final vote Saturday.

It was introduced in reaction to President Donald Trump's actions and speech on
illegal immigration, including a vow to increase deportations.

Trump also has threatened to cut off federal funding to "sanctuary"
jurisdictions - although there is no legal definition of the term - which limit
cooperation with the federal government on immigration enforcement.

Declaring a "sanctuary" city or state has become a way to openly defy Trump.

While many cities - including San Francisco and Santa Ana - have declared
themselves sanctuary cities, Oregon is the only state that has taken on the
identity, doing so in 1987.

On Friday, a federal judge in Chicago blocked the Trump administration's rules
requiring so-called sanctuary cities to cooperate with immigration agents to get
a public safety grant.

U.S. District Judge Harry Leinenweber ruled that the city of Chicago has shown a
"likelihood of success' in its arguments that the administration exceeded its
authority in imposing new standards governing Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
Assistance Grants across the country.

Leinenweber's preliminary injunction applies nationwide, not just to Chicago.
U.S. Attorney Gen. Jeff Sessions has defended the new policies as necessary to
help fight illegal immigration.

"So-called 'sanctuary' policies make all of us less safe because they
intentionally undermine our laws and protect illegal aliens who have committed
crimes," Sessions said when he announced the new guidelines in July.

"These policies also encourage illegal immigration and even human trafficking by
perpetuating the lie that in certain cities, illegal aliens can live outside the
law."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              July 14, 2017 Friday

Glendora man found guilty of crime spree

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 487 words

ABSTRACT

A jury convicted a 26-year-old Glendora man of attempted murder, robbery,
burglary and a host of other criminal charges on Wednesday for a 2015 crime
spree including a home-invasion robbery in San Marino and a shooting in
Glendora, authorities said.

FULL TEXT

A jury on Wednesday convicted a 26-year-old Glendora manof a whole host of
criminal charges stemming from a 2015 crime spree that included a home-invasion
robbery in San Marino and a shooting in Glendora, authorities said.

A Pomona jury deliberated for one day, then found Clayton Ruben Addleman guilty
of 13 criminal charges, according to Los Angeles County District Attorney's
Office spokeswoman Sarah Ardalani. He was convicted of three counts of burglary
with a person present, attempted murder, residential robbery, grant theft auto,
grand theft, identity theft, forgery related to identity theft, assault with a
firearm, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, possession of ammunition
by a convicted felon and petty theft.

Jurors also found true the special allegations that Addleman personally used a
firearm in the crimes.

He faces a maximum penalty of 52 years to life in state prison when he returns
to the Pomona branch of Los Angeles County Superior Court for sentencing Aug. 3,
Ardalani said in awritten statement.

Prosecutors said Addleman shot at, but did not strike, another man in his
hometown of Glendora on Dec. 27, 2015.

"During the investigation, law enforcement believed Addleman may have been the
suspected shooter," Ardalani said. "Two days later, police located the defendant
and took him into custody."

Investigators soon found that Addleman also was responsible fora home-invasion
robbery that occurred on Dec. 29, 2015, at a home in the 500 block of Huntington
Drive in San Marino.

In that crime, "Addleman armed himself with a handgun, broke into the San Marino
home while the residents were inside and then attempted to steal the victims'
vehicle before ultimately fleeing the scene," according to Ardalani.

A terrified female resident hid in the closet during the home invasion, San
Marino police officials said.

When arresting Addleman, police discovered ammunition, as well as checks and
identifying documents in the names of other people, Ardalani said.

Addleman was already on probation stemming from another criminal case when he
was arrested in connection with the current one.

He was convicted of possession of drugs for sales and possession of a firearm in
by a felon in July of 2015, three months afterpolice searched his Starcrest
Drive homeand discovered two rifles, four handguns, ammunition, 1,000 Xanax
pills and a scale, Glendora police Lt. Matt Egan said at the time. Investigators
have gone to his home to serve a warrant related to a previous conviction for
possession of illegal fireworks in 2014.

Addleman received 180 days in jail and three years of probation for the 2015 gun
and drug case, court records show.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

DA Ramos observes National Crime Victims' Rights Week

BYLINE: Ryan Hagen; rhagen@scng.com @rmhagen on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words

ABSTRACT

A

FULL TEXT

SAN BERNARDINO >> National Crime Victims' Rights Week opened Monday with a
somber ceremony hosted by the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office.

The ceremony symbolizes the focus that the criminal justice system should have
52 weeks a year, said District Attorney Michael A. Ramos.

And it's a promise to anyone affected by crime, he said.

"Stay strong," Ramos said. "When you have that anxiety-filled moment when you
feel like you can't breathe, think of us - think of today. We will never stop
seeking justice for you."

Former San Bernardino police officers Gabe Garcia and his father, Ron Garcia,
both attended the ceremony and shook hands with Ramos.

On Aug. 22, 2014, Gabe Garcia and his trainee, Officer Marcus Pesquera, came
upon a group of people gathered around a car. Both officers stepped from their
patrol car to see what the group was doing when one of the men opened fire,
felling Garcia.

Pesquera returned fire and killed the gunman, Alex Alvarado, 38. Pesquera
received the Medal of Valor from the Police Department and Gov. Jerry Brown for
his actions.

Crime victim Kermit Alexander, a Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive back for
the San Francisco 49ers and Los Angeles Rams in the 1960s and 1970s, was also at
the ceremony.

In 1984, Los Angeles gang members went into a house two doors down from the one
they were looking for. They murdered Alexander's mother, sister and two nephews.

The experience propelled the family into fighting for victims' rights, said Tami
Alexander, who accepted an award from Ramos alongside her husband.

"We do this for all victims," she said. "This is the one area - victims' rights
- that crosses color barriers, age, Democrats and Republicans."

The Alexanders campaigned in 2016 against Proposition 62, to repeal the death
penalty in California, and for Proposition 66, to speed up the death penalty.
Both passed, but the state Supreme Court has delayed implementing the measure
until a review of its legality.

This is the fourth annual memorial hosted at the San Bernardino County
Government Center for crime victims.

This year's theme was "strength - resilience - justice."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             April 4, 2017 Tuesday

DA Ramos observes National Crime Victims' Rights Week

BYLINE: Ryan Hagen; rhagen@scng.com @rmhagen on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 357 words

ABSTRACT

A

FULL TEXT

SAN BERNARDINO >> National Crime Victims' Rights Week opened Monday with a
somber ceremony hosted by the San Bernardino County District Attorney's Office.

The ceremony symbolizes the focus that the criminal justice system should have
52 weeks a year, said District Attorney Michael A. Ramos.

And it's a promise to anyone affected by crime, he said.

"Stay strong," Ramos said. "When you have that anxiety-filled moment when you
feel like you can't breathe, think of us - think of today. We will never stop
seeking justice for you."

Former San Bernardino police officers Gabe Garcia and his father, Ron Garcia,
both attended the ceremony and shook hands with Ramos.

On Aug. 22, 2014, Gabe Garcia and his trainee, Officer Marcus Pesquera, came
upon a group of people gathered around a car. Both officers stepped from their
patrol car to see what the group was doing when one of the men opened fire,
felling Garcia.

Pesquera returned fire and killed the gunman, Alex Alvarado, 38. Pesquera
received the Medal of Valor from the Police Department and Gov. Jerry Brown for
his actions.

Crime victim Kermit Alexander, a Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive back for
the San Francisco 49ers and Los Angeles Rams in the 1960s and 1970s, was also at
the ceremony.

In 1984, Los Angeles gang members went into a house two doors down from the one
they were looking for. They murdered Alexander's mother, sister and two nephews.

The experience propelled the family into fighting for victims' rights, said Tami
Alexander, who accepted an award from Ramos alongside her husband.

"We do this for all victims," she said. "This is the one area - victims' rights
- that crosses color barriers, age, Democrats and Republicans."

The Alexanders campaigned in 2016 against Proposition 62, to repeal the death
penalty in California, and for Proposition 66, to speed up the death penalty.
Both passed, but the state Supreme Court has delayed implementing the measure
until a review of its legality.

This is the fourth annual memorial hosted at the San Bernardino County
Government Center for crime victims.

This year's theme was "strength - resilience - justice."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            July 26, 2017 Wednesday

California man accused of smuggling king cobras in potato chip cans

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 304 words



HIGHLIGHT: A man was arrested on federal smuggling charges Tuesday after customs
officers intercepted a shipment with three live king cobras hidden inside potato
chip canisters that were being mailed to his California home, U.S. prosecutors
said.


By MICHAEL BALSAMO

LOS ANGELES  A man was arrested on federal smuggling charges Tuesday after
customs officers intercepted a shipment with three live king cobras hidden
inside potato chip canisters that were being mailed to his California home, U.S.
prosecutors said.

Rodrigo Franco, 34, was scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday afternoon in Los
Angeles on a charge of illegally importing merchandise. It wasnt immediately
clear if he had an attorney who could comment on the allegations.

The three king cobra snakes  each about two feet (just over half a meter) long
were found in March when Customs and Border Protection officers inspected a
package that was mailed from Hong Kong, prosecutors said. There were also three
albino Chinese soft-shelled turtles in the package, authorities said.

Federal agents removed the cobras but delivered the turtles to Francos home in
Monterey Park.

The agents later served a search warrant there and found tanks with a live baby
Morelets crocodile, alligator snapping turtles, a common snapping turtle, and
five diamond back terrapins. Prosecutors say all of the reptiles are protected
under U.S. law.

Franco admitted to an agent from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that he had
previously received 20 king cobras in two other shipments, but he said they all
died in transit, according to court documents.

Federal agents also searched Francos phone and found that he exchanged messages
with an individual in Asia about shipping turtles and snakes between Hong Kong
and the U.S., prosecutors said. Franco said in those messages that he had
previously received live cobras and planned to give five of the snakes to a
relative of the contact in Virginia, court papers said.

If convicted, Franco faces up to 20 years in prison.

___

Follow Michael Balsamo on Twitter at http://twitter.com/MikeBalsamo1 .

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   The New York Times - International Edition

                              May 4, 2017 Thursday

A Modern-Day Harriet Tubman;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: NICHOLAS KRISTOF

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

ABSTRACT

A woman who was once trapped in a cycle of drugs, crime and incarceration now
helps others start healthy lives on the outside.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES - She was 4 years old when her aunt's boyfriend began to abuse her
sexually. Then at 14, she had a baby girl, the result of a gang rape.

Soon she fell under the control of a violent pimp and began cycling through
jails, prisons, addiction and crime for more than 20 years.

Yet today, Susan Burton is a national treasure. She leads a nonprofit helping
people escape poverty and start over after prison, she's a powerful advocate for
providing drug treatment and ending mass incarceration - and her life story is
testimony to the human capacity for resilience and recovery.

America's greatest failure in the 21st century may be that far too many children
grow up in a twilight zone of poverty, chaos, violence, drugs and failing
schools. We can't afford to help them, we say, and then we spend billions of
dollars building prisons to house them.

Burton, now 65, has co-written a stunning memoir that will be published next
week, detailing how after overcoming narcotics she eventually founded a
nonprofit, called A New Way of Life Re-entry Project, to help women leaving
prison. In a preface of the book, Michelle Alexander, a civil rights advocate,
describes Burton as a 21st-century Harriet Tubman, and there's something to
that.

The memoir is called "Becoming Ms. Burton," and that's the journey it describes.
As a black girl growing up in a dysfunctional family in the Watts neighborhood
of Los Angeles, Burton was repeatedly raped, and then her child was run over and
killed by a policeman. She self-medicated with alcohol, cocaine and crack.

"After six prison commitments, at the end of those, I was more broken than when
I went into the system," she told me. "Each time I was released, I would say I'm
going to get it together, but each time it was more daunting."

Her cycles in prison ended only after she chanced into a drug treatment program
in Santa Monica that mostly served a more affluent clientele. A 100-day stint
there helped her turn her life around - a reminder that America would be far
better off if we treated addiction as less a criminal justice issue than a
public health crisis. That's particularly true now that some 52,000 Americans
die annually from drug overdoses, more than 10 times the number who died in the
entire Iraq war.

Starting in 1998, Burton began to help other women leaving prison, providing
them with shelter and coaching them on staying sober and finding jobs. The
effort was an immediate success, and philanthropists took note.

When Theodore Forstmann asked her to make a list of what she needed, Burton
initially wrote down "toilet paper." A friend explained that Forstmann was a
billionaire, and Burton upped the ante to request a van, and Forstmann came
through.

Burton now has 28 staff members, including six lawyers. She runs five homes for
32 women who have left prison, and has been recognized as a CNN Hero - and she
burns with a passion to help other women find an exit ramp as well.

"We keep a woman in prison for decade after decade at a cost of $60,000 a year,
and then give them $200 when they hit the gates for release," she said, shaking
her head. "And, adios. People have to get their IDs, Social Security cards. They
have to get clothing, housing, apply for benefits and services, and it's
impossible to do with 200 bucks."

The upshot, she said, is that people re-offend - and then get locked up once
more, at a huge expense.

Burton showed me the homes she has set up, and the women in them are a reminder
of how difficult it can be to start over after years in prison. One woman,
Unique, confided that she hears voices in her head shouting at her, and Burton
asked her why she didn't keep a doctor's appointment. "I'm afraid to go out,"
Unique explained, so Burton worked out an escort so that Unique could see the
doctor and get her medicines.

"If we don't help her with those voices, she'll be right back in prison," Burton
said when we were outside. Another former prisoner proudly gave her full name:
Mary Mitchell. Now 53, she had been behind bars for her entire adult life and
has never had an official ID card. With Burton's help she is getting one and
looking for a job. But Mitchell has forgotten how to walk in a city.

"I was so scared," she said. "I didn't know how to cross a crosswalk."

Burton told me that a trigger in her own downward spiral was the gang rape that
resulted in her pregnancy; if she had received counseling, she thinks, she might
have avoided unraveling.

Too often, we miss these chances to help wounded young people, and we invest
only in jailing them.

So I'm celebrating Burton's new book and amazing second career - but with a
bittersweet feeling that there are so many other Susan Burtons out there who
never get the help or drug treatment they need, and are still incarcerated in
ways that diminish them and all of America.

I invite you to sign up for my free, twice-weekly email newsletter. Please also
join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on
Twitter (@NickKristof).

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             July 20, 2017 Thursday

University of Southern California addresses drug allegations against ex-dean

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 180 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president of the University of Southern California says officials
will "examine and address" a newspaper report that the recently resigned dean of
the medical school abused drugs and associated with criminals.


LOS ANGELES  The president of the University of Southern California says
officials will examine and address a newspaper report that the recently resigned
dean of the medical school abused drugs and associated with criminals.

Sex, drugs and videotape: Former USC dean led shocking double life

Cop disciplined for not reporting overdose allegedly tied to USC dean      In a
letter Tuesday, USC President C.L. Max Nikias acknowledged concern on campus
following the Los Angeles Times report that Dr. Carmen Puliafito was seen on
video smoking methamphetamine.

The Times reported Monday (http://lat.ms/2u9Y66t) that Puliafito kept company
with a circle of criminals and addicts.

The 66-year-old led the Keck School of Medicine before resigning in 2016. He
remained on the Keck faculty and continued to represent the university at public
events as recently as Saturday.

On Monday, USC said Puliafito was no longer seeing patients and was on leave.
Attempts to reach Puliafito were unsuccessful Tuesday.

___

Information from: Los Angeles Times, http://www.latimes.com/

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           October 19, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Gun ban extended to school employees;
Separately, California prohibits hate-crime convicts from owning firearms for 10
years.

BYLINE: Patrick McGreevy

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; bad desk code; Local Desk; Part B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE:  SACRAMENTO


Gov. Jerry Brown signed a law Saturday that will remove the rights of school
administrators to decide whether employees with concealed-weapon permits can
bring guns on campus.

State law already prohibited civilians who are not school workers from bringing
firearms onto campuses, but a change in the law last year gave school district
superintendents power to decide whether employees could bring concealed weapons
onto campuses, according to Assemblyman Kevin McCarty (D- Sacramento), who
authored the bill.

Five California school districts -- including the Kingsburg Joint Union and Kern
school districts -- have begun to issue authorizations for some school employees
to bring guns on campuses, McCarty said. He said it has increased the chance of
school shootings.

"A safe learning environment is essential for our children to be successful in
the classroom," McCarty said. "That's not possible if a school district allows
armed civilians to roam California school campuses."

The measure, AB 424, was opposed by groups advocating for gun owners including
the National Rifle Assn. and the Firearms Policy Coalition, which noted that
there have been no shootings involving California school employees who brought
guns to campuses.

"The constitutional right to bear arms is based on the fundamental human right
to self-defense," the coalition wrote to lawmakers. "AB 424 undermines these
very important principles based on little more than a whim."

Under separate legislation signed by Brown on Saturday, Californians who are
convicted of hate crimes will be banned from possessing firearms for 10 years.

Assemblyman Reggie Jones-Sawyer Sr. (D-Los Angeles) introduced the legislation,
AB 785. He recently cited the August violence in Charlottesville, Va., as
justification for expanding the gun ban to those who commit hate crimes.

"The recent incident in Charlottesville, where heavily armed neo-Nazis, Klansmen
and white supremacists, spewing hatred and inciting violence under the guise of
protecting free speech and the right to bear arms, is not what the Founding
Fathers of this great nation were protecting when they drafted our
Constitution," Jones-Sawyer said.

Misdemeanor hate crimes that will fall under the firearm ban include using force
or the threat of force to interfere with another person's free exercise of any
constitutional right because of the other person's race, religion, gender or
sexual orientation.

Gun possession will also be banned for people who deface or damage property in
order to interfere with constitutional rights. For example, a person prosecuted
for painting a swastika on a Jewish house of worship could lose their gun
possession rights.

Both measures take effect Jan. 1.

--

patrick.mcgreevy@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "A SAFE learning environment is ... not possible if a school
district allows armed civilians to roam California school campuses," Assemblyman
Kevin McCarty said.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Rich Pedroncelli Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              July 3, 2017 Monday

Three sought following stabbing;
Victim taken to hospital after attack at party

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 94 words

ABSTRACT

A man is stabbed and wounded at a party in Sun Valley.

FULL TEXT

SUN VALLEY >> Los Angeles police were seeking three people after a man was
stabbed during a party in Sun Valley early Sunday, authorities said.

The victim was taken to an area hospital in stable condition, said Lt. Brian
O'Connor of LAPD's Foothill Division.

The attack was reported at 3:10 a.m. Sunday in the 9900 block of Cohasset
Street. Three people fled the scene in a black four-door sedan, LAPD Officer
Liliana Preciado said. The motive for the stabbing was not immediately known,
she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday

West Valley gangs eyed;
Councilman Blumenfield pushes LAPD for update on turf battles after two-year
rise in homicides

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 268 words


With the San Fernando Valley experiencing a significant increase in homicides
over the last two years, a City Council committee on Monday advanced a motion
that would direct police to prepare a report on gang activity west of the 405
Freeway.

The motion approved by the Public Works and Gang Reduction Committee states that
in "the western San Fernando Valley, street gangs have been a continuing
problem, with various criminal acts being committed by gang members."

The motion, which was written by Councilman Bob Blumenfield, also says: 'In
2015, the Valley experienced a significant increase in murders, with a majority
of them being gang-related."

According to the motion, most of the city's efforts to address gang violence
have not been focused on the western San Fernando Valley, and it "would be
beneficial" for the City Council to hear from the Los Angeles Police Department
and the Mayor's Office for Gang Reduction and Youth Development on gang issues
in that region.

There were 65 homicides in the San Fernando Valley in 2016. And in 2015, there
were 57 killings, up 14 percent from the year before.

"We do know, colleagues, that public safety is at the forefront of what we do
here in local government," Councilman Joe Buscaino, a former LAPD officer and
current reserve officer, told his fellow committee members.

"If people don't feel safe, if gang members are taking over communities, then
people are not going to want to live, invest and raise their families in the
city," Buscaino said. "And I do know the police department has had amazing
success in curbing gang violence in the city of Los Angeles."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              422 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday

West Valley gangs eyed;
Councilman Blumenfield pushes LAPD for update on turf battles after two-year
rise in homicides

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 268 words


With the San Fernando Valley experiencing a significant increase in homicides
over the last two years, a City Council committee on Monday advanced a motion
that would direct police to prepare a report on gang activity west of the 405
Freeway.

The motion approved by the Public Works and Gang Reduction Committee states that
in "the western San Fernando Valley, street gangs have been a continuing
problem, with various criminal acts being committed by gang members."

The motion, which was written by Councilman Bob Blumenfield, also says: 'In
2015, the Valley experienced a significant increase in murders, with a majority
of them being gang-related."

According to the motion, most of the city's efforts to address gang violence
have not been focused on the western San Fernando Valley, and it "would be
beneficial" for the City Council to hear from the Los Angeles Police Department
and the Mayor's Office for Gang Reduction and Youth Development on gang issues
in that region.

There were 65 homicides in the San Fernando Valley in 2016. And in 2015, there
were 57 killings, up 14 percent from the year before.

"We do know, colleagues, that public safety is at the forefront of what we do
here in local government," Councilman Joe Buscaino, a former LAPD officer and
current reserve officer, told his fellow committee members.

"If people don't feel safe, if gang members are taking over communities, then
people are not going to want to live, invest and raise their families in the
city," Buscaino said. "And I do know the police department has had amazing
success in curbing gang violence in the city of Los Angeles."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              423 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

Bullying case goes to TV;
Sucker-punched teen to discuss the brutal attack on 'The Doctors'

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 664 words

ABSTRACT

A West Hills teenager who was seriously injured after being sucker punched in
the head by another teen in December will be featured in an episode of the
syndicated talk show "The Doctors" set to air at 11 a.m. Tuesday.

FULL TEXT

A West Hills teenager who was seriously injured after being sucker-punched in
the head by another teen in December will be featured in an episode of the
syndicated TV talk show "The Doctors" today.

In an interview at his home Monday, 14-year-old Jordan Peisner talked about
sitting down with the four doctors on the show to discuss his life-threatening
injuries and the anti-bullying efforts his family launched as a result.

"I was way more nervous than I should have been but it was fun," Jordan said
about the television appearance that was taped last month.

His father, Ed Peisner, added that he was touched that the show's producers
contacted them and wanted to share Jordan's story.

It's "restoring my faith in mankind," he said.

Jordan, a freshman at El Camino Real Charter High School in Woodland Hills, had
just exited a Wendy's at a West Hills shopping center with two friends on Dec. 2
when a boy he did not know punched him forcefully in the head. Jordan sustained
a large blood clot in the brain, a concussion, a skull fracture and hearing loss
from the incident. He can no longer skateboard - his life's passion - or play
sports due to his injuries, his father said.

A teen was arrested on suspicion of felony assault that same day, while a second
juvenile was taken into custody Dec. 8 on suspicion of felony conspiracy,
according to Los Angeles police. An arraignment for the first juvenile, who has
not been identified because of his age, was postponed on Thursday until March.
The second juvenile had yet to be arraigned, said Ed Peisner, who attended the
Feb. 2 hearing.

After learning that Jordan loves theater, "The Doctors" staff presented him with
a six-week scholarship to a drama program at Cal State Northridge. They also
surprised him with a pre-recorded message from professional skateboarder Tony
Hawk, who personally invited Jordan to visit him in San Diego, Jordan said.

"It was pretty crazy seeing the

godfather of skating, skateboarding contact me and say, 'you can come down any
time,'" Jordan said.

"The Doctors," is a "Dr. Phil" spinoff that focuses on health and medical
issues.

During the show's taping, Ed Peisner discussed their efforts with Assemblyman
Matt Dababneh, D-Encino, to draft "Jordan's Law," which would penalize those who
knowingly record a crime and share it online for no other reason than
entertainment purposes.

A video of Jordan being attacked was shot and uploaded to Snapchat by a third
juvenile, who was not arrested.

Just as a get-away driver would be punished for his role in a robbery, the law
would create a new class of crime for those who record and distribute a video of
a crime that they have knowledge of beforehand for some type of social media
value or notoriety, Dababneh said. It would also create an enhancement to the
penalty for the person who commits the crime itself if they colluded to have it
taped.

"We don't ever want to curtail free speech or the ability for people to act in a
way that could actually prevent crime or lead to someone being punished for a
crime," said Dababneh, who plans to introduce the bill next week. "What we're
really focused on here is the act of collusion between individuals."

Ed Peisner has also created a Change.org petition in support of the creation of
such legislation.

"I will not stop moving forward until we have laws in place for bullying and
cyber bullying," he said.

The father will also speak about Jordan's ordeal and their legislative efforts
at 6 p.m. Wednesday at El Camino Real Charter High School's Anderson Hall, 5440
Valley Circle Blvd., as part of a program organized by the school's Cool 2 Be
Kind student club.

In Los Angeles, "The Doctors" episode featuring Jordan Peisner and his father
will air at 11 a.m. today on KCAL Channel 9.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              424 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 7, 2017 Tuesday

Bullying case goes to TV;
Sucker-punched teen to discuss the brutal attack on 'The Doctors'

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 664 words

ABSTRACT

A West Hills teenager who was seriously injured after being sucker punched in
the head by another teen in December will be featured in an episode of the
syndicated talk show "The Doctors" set to air at 11 a.m. Tuesday.

FULL TEXT

A West Hills teenager who was seriously injured after being sucker-punched in
the head by another teen in December will be featured in an episode of the
syndicated TV talk show "The Doctors" today.

In an interview at his home Monday, 14-year-old Jordan Peisner talked about
sitting down with the four doctors on the show to discuss his life-threatening
injuries and the anti-bullying efforts his family launched as a result.

"I was way more nervous than I should have been but it was fun," Jordan said
about the television appearance that was taped last month.

His father, Ed Peisner, added that he was touched that the show's producers
contacted them and wanted to share Jordan's story.

It's "restoring my faith in mankind," he said.

Jordan, a freshman at El Camino Real Charter High School in Woodland Hills, had
just exited a Wendy's at a West Hills shopping center with two friends on Dec. 2
when a boy he did not know punched him forcefully in the head. Jordan sustained
a large blood clot in the brain, a concussion, a skull fracture and hearing loss
from the incident. He can no longer skateboard - his life's passion - or play
sports due to his injuries, his father said.

A teen was arrested on suspicion of felony assault that same day, while a second
juvenile was taken into custody Dec. 8 on suspicion of felony conspiracy,
according to Los Angeles police. An arraignment for the first juvenile, who has
not been identified because of his age, was postponed on Thursday until March.
The second juvenile had yet to be arraigned, said Ed Peisner, who attended the
Feb. 2 hearing.

After learning that Jordan loves theater, "The Doctors" staff presented him with
a six-week scholarship to a drama program at Cal State Northridge. They also
surprised him with a pre-recorded message from professional skateboarder Tony
Hawk, who personally invited Jordan to visit him in San Diego, Jordan said.

"It was pretty crazy seeing the

godfather of skating, skateboarding contact me and say, 'you can come down any
time,'" Jordan said.

"The Doctors," is a "Dr. Phil" spinoff that focuses on health and medical
issues.

During the show's taping, Ed Peisner discussed their efforts with Assemblyman
Matt Dababneh, D-Encino, to draft "Jordan's Law," which would penalize those who
knowingly record a crime and share it online for no other reason than
entertainment purposes.

A video of Jordan being attacked was shot and uploaded to Snapchat by a third
juvenile, who was not arrested.

Just as a get-away driver would be punished for his role in a robbery, the law
would create a new class of crime for those who record and distribute a video of
a crime that they have knowledge of beforehand for some type of social media
value or notoriety, Dababneh said. It would also create an enhancement to the
penalty for the person who commits the crime itself if they colluded to have it
taped.

"We don't ever want to curtail free speech or the ability for people to act in a
way that could actually prevent crime or lead to someone being punished for a
crime," said Dababneh, who plans to introduce the bill next week. "What we're
really focused on here is the act of collusion between individuals."

Ed Peisner has also created a Change.org petition in support of the creation of
such legislation.

"I will not stop moving forward until we have laws in place for bullying and
cyber bullying," he said.

The father will also speak about Jordan's ordeal and their legislative efforts
at 6 p.m. Wednesday at El Camino Real Charter High School's Anderson Hall, 5440
Valley Circle Blvd., as part of a program organized by the school's Cool 2 Be
Kind student club.

In Los Angeles, "The Doctors" episode featuring Jordan Peisner and his father
will air at 11 a.m. today on KCAL Channel 9.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              425 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                              May 19, 2017 Friday

Man killed in fiery crash identified Man attacked, robbed along Rosemead Blvd.
Locked door thwarts would-be robbers Police to hold Friday night checkpoint

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 603 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, May 19, 2017.

FULL TEXT

Coroner's officials have identified a 24-year-old man who died in a fiery
solo-vehicle crash along Rosemead Boulevard in Rosemead last week.

Eric Salazar Cruz of San Gabriel died inthe 12:40 a.m. crash May 12in the4500
block of Rosemead Boulevard, according to Los Angeles County Department of
Medical Examiner-Coroner records.

He was believed to be driving an SUV at "a high rate of speed" when he lost
control and the SUV struck a wall, Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John McClure
said. The vehicle burst into flames and was fully engulfed when first responders
arrived at the scene.

The crash remains under investigation, and Cruz's cause of death was yet to be
determined.

Three men attacked another man and threatened him with a handgun before robbing
him of his wallet in Temple City on Thursday afternoon, authorities said.

The crime unfolded about 1:55 p.m. atRosemead Boulevard and Pentland Street, Los
Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John McClure said.

A man was approached by three robbers, he said. One of them punched the victim
in the stomach, pointed a handgun at his head and demanded his wallet, the
lieutenant said.

The victim complied, and the robbers fled with his wallet. The victim did not
wish to be taken to a hospital.

McClure described the gunman as a white man, accompanied by two black men.
Sheriff's radio traffic further described the suspects as a white man in his
40s, wearing a white shirt and black pants; a black man in his 20s, bald, with a
goatee; and a black man of thin build, wearing a gray shirt and black pants,
with tattoos on his right forearm.

Anyone with information can reach the sheriff's Temple Station at 626-285-7171.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

Two men wearing ski masks tried to rob a cellphone store, but gave up when they
couldn't get past the locked door Wednesday, police said.

The attempted robbery occurred 8:52 p.m. at the GoWireless store at 3811 E.
Foothill Blvd.

Pasadena Police Lt. Mark Goodman said the store was closed when two men walked
up to the front door. He said both wore black ski masks and one was armed with a
handgun.

"Both suspects tried to pull the door open, but were unable to do so due to it
being locked," Goodman said in a statement.

The suspects got into a white car with paper plates and left the scene. Police
described the suspects as two black men between 20 and 25 years old, 5 feet 10
inches tall and weighing about 190 pounds. One wore a gray sweatshirt.

Police are planning to hold a sobriety and driver license checkpoint in Whittier
tonight, police said.

The checkpoint is to be held from 7 p.m. today to 2:30 a.m. Saturday at an
undisclosed location within the city, Whittier police officials said in a
written statement.

"Over the course of the past three years, the Whittier PD officers have
investigated 344 DUI collisions which have claimed four lives and resulted in
another 66 injuries," according to the statement.

"The Whittier Police Department supports the new effort from the Office of
Traffic Safety that aims to educate all drivers that 'DUI Doesn't Just Mean
Booze.' If you take prescription drugs, particularly those with a driving or
operating machinery warning on the label, you might be impaired enough to get a
DUI. Marijuana can also be impairing, especially in combination with alcohol or
other drugs, and can result in a DUI."

Funding for the checkpoint is being provided by a grant from the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, through the California Office of Traffic
Safety.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                              May 19, 2017 Friday

Man killed in fiery crash identified Man attacked, robbed along Rosemead Blvd.
Locked door thwarts would-be robbers Police to hold Friday night checkpoint

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 602 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, May 19, 2017.

FULL TEXT

Coroner's officials have identified a 24-year-old man who died in a fiery
solo-vehicle crash along Rosemead Boulevard in Rosemead last week.

Eric Salazar Cruz of San Gabriel died inthe 12:40 a.m. crash May 12in the4500
block of Rosemead Boulevard, according to Los Angeles County Department of
Medical Examiner-Coroner records.

He was believed to be driving an SUV at "a high rate of speed" when he lost
control and the SUV struck a wall, Los Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John McClure
said. The vehicle burst into flames and was fully engulfed when first responders
arrived at the scene.

The crash remains under investigation, and Cruz's cause of death was yet to be
determined.

Three men attacked another man and threatened him with a handgun before robbing
him of his wallet in Temple City on Thursday afternoon, authorities said.

The crime unfolded about 1:55 p.m. atRosemead Boulevard and Pentland Street, Los
Angeles County sheriff's Lt. John McClure said.

A man was approached by three robbers, he said. One of them punched the victim
in the stomach, pointed a handgun at his head and demanded his wallet, the
lieutenant said.

The victim complied, and the robbers fled with his wallet. The victim did not
wish to be taken to a hospital.

McClure described the gunman as a white man, accompanied by two black men.
Sheriff's radio traffic further described the suspects as a white man in his
40s, wearing a white shirt and black pants; a black man in his 20s, bald, with a
goatee; and a black man of thin build, wearing a gray shirt and black pants,
with tattoos on his right forearm.

Anyone with information can reach the sheriff's Temple Station at 626-285-7171.
Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat
800-222-8477.

Two men wearing ski masks tried to rob a cellphone store, but gave up when they
couldn't get past the locked door Wednesday, police said.

The attempted robbery occurred 8:52 p.m. at the GoWireless store at 3811 E.
Foothill Blvd.

Pasadena Police Lt. Mark Goodman said the store was closed when two men walked
up to the front door. He said both wore black ski masks and one was armed with a
handgun.

"Both suspects tried to pull the door open, but were unable to do so due to it
being locked," Goodman said in a statement.

The suspects got into a white car with paper plates and left the scene. Police
described the suspects as two black men between 20 to 25, 5 feet 10 inches tall
and weighing about 190 pounds. One wore a gray sweatshirt.

Police are planning to hold a sobriety and driver license checkpoint in Whittier
tonight, police said.

The checkpoint is to be held from 7 p.m. today to 2:30 a.m. Saturday at an
undisclosed location within the city, Whittier police officials said in a
written statement.

"Over the course of the past three years, the Whittier PD officers have
investigated 344 DUI collisions which have claimed four lives and resulted in
another 66 injuries," according to the statement.

"The Whittier Police Department supports the new effort from the Office of
Traffic Safety that aims to educate all drivers that 'DUI Doesn't Just Mean
Booze.' If you take prescription drugs, particularly those with a driving or
operating machinery warning on the label, you might be impaired enough to get a
DUI. Marijuana can also be impairing, especially in combination with alcohol or
other drugs, and can result in a DUI."

Funding for the checkpoint is being provided by a grant from the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, through the California Office of Traffic
Safety.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              427 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           September 9, 2017 Saturday

Man jailed in real estate fraud scheme in San Gabriel Valley

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 423 words

ABSTRACT

Investigators in the San Gabriel Valley jailed a Fontana man Thursday on
suspicion of carrying out an "elaborate scheme" to steal the homes of the
elderly and families of recently deceased people, authorities said.

FULL TEXT

Investigators in the San Gabriel Valley on Thursday jailed a Fontana suspected
of carrying out an "elaborate scheme" to steal the homes of the elderly and
families of recently deceased people, authorities said.

Detectives from the Los Angeles County Sheriff' Department's Fraud and Cyber
Crimes Detail, Real Estate Fraud Unit, arrested Vo Hoang Ho, 38, about 6:30
a.m., according to sheriff's officials and booking records. Officials described
Ho as a Fontana resident, though public records also indicate a recent address
in West Covina.

The arrest stems from a warrant issued by the Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office on Sept. 1, Deputy Ryan Rouzansaid in awritten statement.

Ho carried out the fraud over the past three months, at least, officials allege.

"The scheme was perpetrated by way of the suspect committing identity theft on
either the deceased owners of the property or living elderly victims, forging
the victims' names on various fraudulent real estate documents, and having those
documents recorded at the Los Angeles County Recorder's office," Rouzan said. He
allegedly offered the properties for sale to victim investors who had no idea
about the fraud.

It was unclear Thursday how many alleged victims were involved,or how much
property Ho is alleged to have swindled in the alleged con, which Rouzan
described as "elaborate."

Fraud investigators advised homeowners to periodically check their properties'
history for accuracy. "If discrepancies are noticed in the title chain, contact
a real estate professional for advice," according to Rouzan. If something
suspicious is seen, homeowners are advised to contact their local law
enforcement agencies.

"Los Angeles County residents should also be aware that every time a real estate
document gets recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder's office, a notice
gets sent to the property owner advising them of such," Rouzan added. "This
service is provided to make home owners aware that activity is taking place with
their property." According to booking records, Ho was being held in lieu of
$1.15 million bail pending his initial court appearance.

Anyone with information can reach Sgt. Alex Gilinets of the Real Estate Fraud
Unit at 562-946-8250. Tips may also be submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional
Crime Stoppersat 800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              428 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             June 7, 2017 Wednesday

Monrovia man is arrested in abductions, sex attacks;
Sheriff's identified at least six victims who were lured into car, assaulted in
motels

BYLINE: Stephanie K. Baer; stephanie.baer@langnews.com @skbaer on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words

ABSTRACT

Authorities will released information at a press conference Tuesday on the
arrest of a man suspected of sexual assault of multiple female victims.

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Authorities are seeking additional victims of a Monrovia man
suspected of kidnapping and sexually assaulting at least six women across the
San Gabriel Valley over the past five years.

Lt. Todd Deeds, of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Special Victims
Bureau, detailed the arrest of Jason Chung Chien Yu, 41, and described the
circumstances in which he allegedly preyed on his victims, lured them to his
dark-colored sedan and sexually assaulted them in nearby motels during a press
briefing at the Hall of Justice in downtown Los Angeles Tuesday.

"He targets women that are drug users, he meets them on the street, he lures
them into his vehicle by offering them money and drugs, he then holds them
captive and takes them to a different location and sexually assaults them,"
Deeds said.

The incidents took place in the cities of El Monte, Lynwood, Monterey Park and
Temple City between 2012 and 2017. Deeds said authorities believe Yu may have
assaulted additional women and are asking other victims to come forward.

"Because again the type of victims that he targets and the number of years that
he has been doing it we believe there are other victims out there," Deeds said.
"We want you to know that Mr. Yu is in custody and we want you to feel safe
notifying law enforcement."

Yu was arrested in Irwindale May 24 and is being held in lieu of $1.37 million
bail. He faces one count of forcible sodomy, one

count of oral copulation, one count of sexual assault, one count of false
imprisonment and one count of kidnapping to commit sexual assault, according to
court records.

He is scheduled to be arraigned June 16.

Deeds said the victims ranged in age from young adults to women in their 60s.
None of the six victims were minors, he said.

Deeds said there was "nothing significant" in Yu's criminal history. Online
court and booking records show Yu was arrested in January and April for driving
on a suspended or revoked license and was previously convicted of driving on a
highway without a valid driver's license.

Anyone with information is asked to call the Special Victims Bureau at
877-710-5273.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              429 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                    Crimebo

                                 651 Clover St
                             Los Angeles,  CA 90031
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (323) 638-4097
URL: www.crimebo.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Crimebo the crime clown dedicates himself to everything criminal through
tours, live performances and private events. Crimebo the crime clown is an extra
ordinary entertainer and comedian. From common thieves to the most ruthless mob
bosses or crimes that fall into the just plain weird, Crimebo makes it his
business to know. A native of Los Angeles, his unique tours offer mystery and
exposure to the often unseen side of the city. Tours consist of both walking and
vehicle excursions as well as custom tours. Crimebo sets himself apart from the
"normal" clown world by looking at the world through masked eyes and a whisky
induced fog. Once you take a Crimebo tour, you'll never think of Los Angeles the
same way again.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              430 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Raids nab 21 suspected MS-13 gang members

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 520 words


LOS ANGELES >> Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of
the violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday
in the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.

The 21 suspects arrested Wednesday were among 44 defendants named in a sweeping
anti-racketeering indictment, some of whom are already in jail, according to the
U.S. attorney's office.

The massive sweep capped a nearly three-year investigation involving federal,
state and local law enforcement authorities.

"These cases constitute the largest crackdown of MS-13 ever conducted in Los
Angeles," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown at a news
conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the arrests.

She added that more than half of the suspects named in the

indictment were in the country illegally, but U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement was not involved in the investigation.

"This has nothing to do with their immigration status," said Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck as he joined Brown and other members of the law enforcement
community. "This has to do with their criminal status. I will add that many of
the witnesses that allowed us to do this by their statements also have
immigration issues."

Those arrested by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs include the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region, authorities said.

The high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto MS-13 leadership council, a
committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the top
role in light of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement, authorities said.

The indictment charges three MS-13 members for killings they are accused of
committing in connection with the gang's activities.

One suspect, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, 23, also known as "Little Boy," faces
a violent crime in aid of racketeering - or VICAR - murder charge for allegedly
fatally shooting an innocent bystanderon Aug. 15, 2015, inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue, officials said. A friend of the victim was also stabbed during the
attack.

Two other suspected MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, 39, known as
"Blacky," and Joffri Molina, 24, known as "Espia" - are also charged with
murder.

Rivas is charged with murder in the death a man on Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip
mall in Pacoima. Molina is charged with murder in the death of a man on Sept.
27, 2015, on a street in North Hollywood.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Brown said. "With thousands of members here in the Southland,
the gang's power is widespread, power which it maintains with severe acts of
violence."

The three people facing murder charges could face the death penalty if
convicted, authorities said.

Beck said there were 800 documented MS-13 members in L.A.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              431 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 4, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Stakes high for the L.A. school board;
Rodriguez's refusal to take a leave could put his pro-charter allies in a
difficult spot.

BYLINE: Howard Blume

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words


It's been nearly two months since prosecutors charged L.A. school board member
Ref Rodriguez with multiple felonies and misdemeanors, accusing him of political
money laundering. At first, as he attended board meetings, his colleagues said
little about his legal troubles. But after the charter school network he
co-founded recently raised separate questions, about alleged conflicts of
interest, his three closest allies on the board publicly asked him to take a
leave of absence.

He said no.

Like Rodriguez, the board members who spoke out were elected with substantial
support from backers of charter schools. With him, board President Monica
Garcia, Nick Melvoin and Kelly Gonez hold a 4-3 majority.

Rodriguez's presence on the Board of Education will matter on upcoming votes
important to charter school supporters. On Tuesday, more than a dozen charter
schools are counting on him to back their rebellion against rules imposed by the
district's charter-school division.

All of which makes his allies' stand particularly interesting, and makes reading
the board tea leaves tricky. Here's a breakdown of some key issues.

Why was it noteworthy that these three school board members proposed the leave
of absence?

They are Rodriguez's ideological allies. They had selected him as board
president in July, after they won a majority in this year's elections. He
resigned from that leadership role when he was charged, but his vote counts as
much as ever in their 4-3 majority.

Is a leave of absence really possible?

L.A. Unified general counsel David Holmquist said there's no district policy on
taking a leave of absence. Nor could he find a specific provision in state law.
The closest analog, he said, is Government Code Section 1770(g), which covers a
public official abandoning his post.

According to that code, an office becomes "vacant" if a public official ceases
"to discharge the duties of his or her office for the period of three
consecutive months, except when prevented by sickness, or when absent from the
state with the permission required by law."

Saying you're taking a leave of absence, Holmquist said, would be like declaring
in advance: "I'm not planning to perform the functions of a board member for
some time." And leave of absence or not, after three months, Rodriguez's job
would be considered abandoned.

How likely is it that Rodriguez's problems could be resolved in less than three
months?

Barring a plea deal with prosecutors, proceedings could last for several years.

"Trials are the last step in the process, and right now we're at the first
step," said his attorney, Daniel Nixon, after the Oct. 24 arraignment, when
Rodriguez pleaded not guilty to the money-laundering charges.

State regulators might not even begin to investigate the more recent
conflict-of-interest allegations raised by the charter school network until the
money-laundering case is resolved. (Through Nixon, Rodriguez also has denied
wrongdoing on this front.)

Why would Rodriguez's allies urge him to take a leave?

Their brief statement suggested that they wanted to minimize a distraction that
could impede the work of the nation's second-largest school system.

Garcia and Melvoin did not make themselves available to be interviewed, but
Gonez said Rodriguez's staff members could help fill in the gap when Rodriguez
was on leave.

"Constituents would still have someone to call if there was an issue at the
school," she said.

She said she was aware of the three-month legal limit of any absence and that
she understood that might not be enough time for Rodriguez to resolve his
problems.

How important is Rodriguez's vote on upcoming issues?

Potentially crucial.

At Tuesday's board meeting, for example, district staff members plan to
recommend that 10 charter schools be shut down because they refuse to comply
with district rules.

The futures of six other charter schools also are at risk, mostly over the same
issues. All told, there have never been as many L.A. charter schools facing
potential closure at one time -- certainly never over conflicts they instigated.

Charter leaders say they are standing up against regulations they find onerous.
For now, they appear ready to leave it to board members to decide their schools'
fates.

The majority that includes Rodriguez has the votes to help them, though it's not
clear what board members will decide.

Some charter leaders have acknowledged the allegations against Rodriguez are
serious, but a group that took part in a media call this week declined to
respond when asked if Rodriguez should recuse himself from voting.

How well received was the call for a leave of absence?

Some observers praised the three board members as ethical stewards of the public
interest, willing to speak out against an important ally.

"It's nice in the political miasma we're in these days to see people act with a
kind of integrity," said Robert Shrum, director of USC's Unruh Institute of
Politics. "They're not willing to say, 'We'll put up with this to forward our
substantive agenda.' They did the right thing."

But others saw Rodriguez's allies' request as a cynical attempt to distance
themselves -- and other charter school supporters -- from association with
possible wrongdoing, while knowing they would hold on to Rodriguez's vote.

"Image and perception are two key elements for any politician, and that is what
these board members were doing," said Roberto Fonseca, a longtime local parent
activist. These ideological allies of Rodriguez acted "to protect themselves and
what they represent."

How are other board members reacting?

The other three board members are not associated with Rodriguez's bloc.

"I wouldn't want him to give me advice, and I can't give him advice," George
McKenna said of Rodriguez. "He's legally entitled to vote until he's not
entitled to."

"I don't understand how you would do a leave," said Richard Vladovic. "And I
don't know the implications. It's so uncharted."

Scott Schmerelson did not make himself available for an interview.

--

howard.blume@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FACING criminal charges, Ref Rodriguez refused a request to take
a leave from the L.A. school board.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Al Seib Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              432 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                           September 19, 2017 Tuesday

Drug dealer gets 11 years for killing Hollywood exec in fist fight

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 427 words



HIGHLIGHT: A member of UCLA's 1975 championship basketball team under Coach John
Wooden, Gavin Smith had worked as a movie stuntman and then became an executive
for 20th Century Fox.


LOS ANGELES (AP)  A drug dealer was sentenced Tuesday to 11 years in prison for
the beating death of a movie studio executive who had been having an affair with
his wife.

John Lenzie Creech, 45, was convicted in July of voluntary manslaughter in the
killing of Gavin Smith, a 57-year-old married father of three.

Smiths body was found in a shallow desert grave two years after he was reported
missing in 2012. A member of UCLAs 1975 NCAA-winning basketball team under Coach
John Wooden, he had worked as a movie stuntman and then became a distribution
executive for 20th Century Fox.

A jury rejected first- and second-degree murder charges.

Before sentencing, Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Stephen A. Marcus
called Creech a cold and cruel person.

Mr. Creech has shown no remorse in this case whatsoever, the judge said. He has
attempted to sort of paint himself as the total victim in this case and the
court does not find, in my view of the evidence, that thats true.

Prosecutors said Creech killed Smith because Smith was having an affair with
Creechs estranged wife, Chandrika Cade. Smith had met her in drug rehab, which
he was undergoing after becoming addicted to painkillers prescribed for a back
injury.

Smith and Cade began an affair in 2008. Smith reportedly broke it off two years
later after being confronted by his wife, but the pair had later resumed
communication.

In May 2012, they were having a romantic rendezvous inside Smiths Mercedes-Benz
sedan in a Los Angeles neighborhood when Creech found them through an iPhone app
that allowed him to track his wifes phone.

In the fight that followed, Creech crushed Smiths skull on both sides, according
to an autopsy.

Nearly a year later, the Mercedes, with Smiths blood on it, was found in a
storage facility connected to Creech.

Smiths remains were eventually found in a shallow grave in the desert north of
Los Angeles.

Creech testified that Smith had thrown the first punch and he defended himself.

Defense attorney Irene Nunez told the jury that Creech had made errors in
judgment by concealing Smiths body and car after lawfully defending himself.

This was a tragic fight between two grown men, two flawed men, two imperfect
men, Nunez said. There was no intention to kill. This was a spontaneous fight.

The prosecutor countered that Creech  who was taking growth hormones at the time

   could kill with his bare hands and deliberately, viciously, intently
delivered murderous blows.

Creech was serving an eight-year sentence for the sale or transportation of
drugs when he was indicted for the killing.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gavin Smith with his wife. (File photo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              433 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 11, 2017 Saturday

Metro funds Pasadena police to patrol Gold Line stations

BYLINE: Jason Henry; jhenry@scng.com @JasonMHenry on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 456 words

ABSTRACT

The Metro Gold Line has always been the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department's responsibility, but now the Pasadena Police Department is taking on
a larger role.

FULL TEXT

For the first time, the Pasadena Police Department will soon patrol the city's
Gold Line stations through a $132,000 a year contract with the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

With the new funding, Pasadena will place two officers at the stations during
peak hours in the mornings and evenings. The officers will serve as the first
responders for most crimes, according to a staff report.

The expanded presence is an effort to make train riders feel more comfortable,
said Lt. Jason Clawson, the department's spokesman.

"There is a big difference between people being safe, and feeling safe," Clawson
said. "We want to get a higher level of policing and visibility in the area to
thwart any possible crimes around the Metro stations."

Earlier this year, Metro signed a five-year, $645 million contract with the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's, Los Angeles Police and Long Beach Police departments
to handle enforcement of the agency's 2,200 buses and six rail lines. The
changes increased the roles of the two police departments in their respective
cities and lessened the areas covered by the sheriff's department.

In Pasadena, sheriff's deputies will continue to have jurisdiction over the
trains and the tracks. The local officers will stick to the perimeters of the
stations unless there is an immediate safety issue, Clawson said.

The department does not have enough officers to take on a larger role, he said.

Pasadena Councilman Victor Gordo said he has received complaints about the lack
of law enforcement at the Gold Line stations, particularly the Lake Avenue
station in his district. Last year, a survey by Metro found that 29 percent of
former riders left the system because they did not feel it was safe, with 18
percent saying they would return if there were more police on the buses and rail
cars.

"This is an attempt on the part of our police department to address some of
those issues," Gordo said. "This will give us an opportunity to cross over into
what otherwise would be considered state or Metro jurisdiction to protect
passengers and the quality of life in, and around, the stations."

Metro's funding covers overtime pay for the two shifts; officers won't be taken
away from patrols in the city's neighborhoods and business districts.

"In a perfect world, we would partner with the sheriff's department to assist
them in their responsibility of patrolling and securing the Gold Line station,
the platforms and the trains," Gordo said. "We simply don't have the resources
at this time to offer that level of assistance."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              434 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 29, 2017 Saturday

Armed, masked men rob senior citizen Stabbing suspect jailed in East L.A. Woman
identified after fatal accident

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Saturday, July 29, 2017.

FULL TEXT

Two men armed with a rifle or shotgun robbed a 71-year-old Santa Barbara man as
he sat in his car on Thursday night, officials said.

The crime was reported about 11 p.m. in the 1800 block of East Del Mar
Boulevard, Pasadena police Lt. William Grisafe said.

The victim was sitting in his car when two men approached, carrying what was
described as a black long gun, he said. They demanded money. Grisafe said the
elderly victim handed over about $100. The robbers were last seen walking east,
"nonchalantly," along Del Mar Boulevard.

Both robbers were described as men in their 20s wearing bandanas covering their
faces, Grisafe said.

One was of undetermined race, about 5 feet tall, of heavy build with dark hair,
he said. The second robber was possibly Latino or white, of thin build, with
dark hair.

Anyone with information can reach Pasadena police at 626-744-4241. Tips may also
be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477.

Officials arrested a teenage Monterey Park stabbing suspect following a two-hour
standoff at an East Los Angeles home on Friday, officials said.

The incident began just after 11 a.m. in the 3500 block of East Cesar E. Chavez
Avenue, Deputy Caroline Rodriguez of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department
Information Bureau said in a written statement.

Police and deputies went to the home to serve a search warrant as part of the
investigation into a Wednesday morning stabbing outside a motel in the 300 block
of South Garfield Avenue in Monterey Park, Monterey Park police Lt. Gus Jimenez
said.

One suspect, described a man,  was taken into custody shortly after the alleged
attack, Monterey Park police officials said in a written statement. But a second
teenage suspect remained at large.

The young man refused orders to exit the home when police arrived with a search
warrant, officials said.

A sheriff's Special Enforcement Bureau SWAT team, as well as crisis negotiators,
were summoned to the scene, Rodriguez said. Nearby homes were evacuated during
the standoff.

The holed-up suspect surrendered to deputies shortly after 1 p.m., Jimenez said.

Both suspects are accused of attempted murder, police said. The identity of the
adult suspect was not released Friday.

A 38-year-old woman who was struck by a vehicle in Pomona last week died of her
injuries a week later, police reported Friday.

Jessica Alvarez of Pomona was struck just after 7 p.m. on July 20 at the
intersection of Bonita and Melbourne avenues. She was taken to Pomona Valley
Hospital in critical condition and was pronounced dead about 3:25 p.m. Thursday,
according to the Pomona Police Department.

The driver remained at the scene and cooperated with police.

The pedestrian fatality was under investigation by the department's Major
Accident Investigation Team.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              435 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday

Valley tool thieves stealing white vans;
27 vehicles used by tradesmen have been taken since Nov. 1, LAPD says

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 355 words

ABSTRACT

White vans with tools are a target and authorities are warning owners to beware
of thieves. Los Angeles police warned on Friday that criminals have stolen 27
white vans since Nov. 1.

FULL TEXT

If you own a white van with tools inside, beware.

That's the word from Los Angeles police who say thieves are stealing white vans
loaded with tools at locations across the west San Fernando Valley.

On Friday, the Los Angeles Police Department warned that since Nov. 1, there had
been 27 thefts of white vans used by tradesmen in the Valley. The purpose of
stealing the vans is

to take the tools inside and sell them on the internet, officials said.

"We aren't sure if it's the same suspect, or just a new MO shared across the
crime populous," said LAPD Lt. Paul Weber, commanding officer of the Topanga
Detective Division, in a statement.

"The vans are usually taken overnight," Weber explained.

In most cases, the vans are recovered pretty quickly, but the tools are long
gone, according to Weber.

"They are found a short time later (one to three days) and usually a short
distance from the crime location," he said about the vans. "That tells us the
real target is the tools inside."

Power tools are easily resold using online websites like Craigslist or Offerup
as well as pawnshops and swap meets, according to police.

"Between November last year, and Feb. 1, 2017, 20 Ford Econoline, five Chevy
Express, and two GMC Savanna vans have been stolen with tools later removed,"
Weber said.

Authorities offered the following tips to reduce the risk of stolen vans and
tools:

o Lock the van

o Put an alarm in the van

o Place power tools inside a locked, security container inside the van

o Install a steering-wheel lock mechanism to discourage the theft of the van

o Etch a California driver's license or identification number on all power tools
and other tools

o Park vans inside secured structures or yards

Anyone with information on the case can contact LAPD Detective Brien Pogue of
the Topanga Detective Division at 818-756-3537 or anonymously to Crimestoppers
at 800-222-8477 or texting 274637 (C-R-I-M-E-S on most keypads) with a
cellphone.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              436 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday

Valley tool thieves stealing white vans;
27 vehicles used by tradesmen have been taken since Nov. 1, LAPD says

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 355 words

ABSTRACT

White vans with tools are a target and authorities are warning owners to beware
of thieves. Los Angeles police warned on Friday that criminals have stolen 27
white vans since Nov. 1.

FULL TEXT

If you own a white van with tools inside, beware.

That's the word from Los Angeles police who say thieves are stealing white vans
loaded with tools at locations across the west San Fernando Valley.

On Friday, the Los Angeles Police Department warned that since Nov. 1, there had
been 27 thefts of white vans used by tradesmen in the Valley. The purpose of
stealing the vans is

to take the tools inside and sell them on the internet, officials said.

"We aren't sure if it's the same suspect, or just a new MO shared across the
crime populous," said LAPD Lt. Paul Weber, commanding officer of the Topanga
Detective Division, in a statement.

"The vans are usually taken overnight," Weber explained.

In most cases, the vans are recovered pretty quickly, but the tools are long
gone, according to Weber.

"They are found a short time later (one to three days) and usually a short
distance from the crime location," he said about the vans. "That tells us the
real target is the tools inside."

Power tools are easily resold using online websites like Craigslist or Offerup
as well as pawnshops and swap meets, according to police.

"Between November last year, and Feb. 1, 2017, 20 Ford Econoline, five Chevy
Express, and two GMC Savanna vans have been stolen with tools later removed,"
Weber said.

Authorities offered the following tips to reduce the risk of stolen vans and
tools:

o Lock the van

o Put an alarm in the van

o Place power tools inside a locked, security container inside the van

o Install a steering-wheel lock mechanism to discourage the theft of the van

o Etch a California driver's license or identification number on all power tools
and other tools

o Park vans inside secured structures or yards

Anyone with information on the case can contact LAPD Detective Brien Pogue of
the Topanga Detective Division at 818-756-3537 or anonymously to Crimestoppers
at 800-222-8477 or texting 274637 (C-R-I-M-E-S on most keypads) with a
cellphone.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              437 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             July 29, 2017 Saturday

Armed, masked men rob senior citizen Stabbing suspect jailed in East L.A. Woman
identified after fatal accident

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Saturday, July 29, 2017.

FULL TEXT

Two men armed with a rifle or shotgun robbed a 71-year-old Santa Barbara man as
he sat in his car on Thursday night, officials said.

The crime was reported about 11 p.m. in the 1800 block of East Del Mar
Boulevard, Pasadena police Lt. William Grisafe said.

The victim was sitting in his car when two men approached, carrying what was
described as a black long gun, he said. They demanded money. Grisafe said the
elderly victim handed over about $100. The robbers were last seen walking east,
"nonchalantly," along Del Mar Boulevard.

Both robbers were described as men in their 20s wearing bandanas covering their
faces, Grisafe said.

One was of undetermined race, about 5 feet tall, of heavy build with dark hair,
he said. The second robber was possibly Latino or white, of thin build, with
dark hair.

Anyone with information can reach Pasadena police at 626-744-4241. Tips may also
be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477.

Officials arrested a teenage Monterey Park stabbing suspect following a two-hour
standoff at an East Los Angeles home on Friday, officials said.

The incident began just after 11 a.m. in the 3500 block of East Cesar E. Chavez
Avenue, Deputy Caroline Rodriguez of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department
Information Bureau said in a written statement.

Police and deputies went to the home to serve a search warrant as part of the
investigation into a Wednesday morning stabbing outside a motel in the 300 block
of South Garfield Avenue in Monterey Park, Monterey Park police Lt. Gus Jimenez
said.

One suspect, described a man,  was taken into custody shortly after the alleged
attack, Monterey Park police officials said in a written statement. But a second
teenage suspect remained at large.

The young man refused orders to exit the home when police arrived with a search
warrant, officials said.

A sheriff's Special Enforcement Bureau SWAT team, as well as crisis negotiators,
were summoned to the scene, Rodriguez said. Nearby homes were evacuated during
the standoff.

The holed-up suspect surrendered to deputies shortly after 1 p.m., Jimenez said.

Both suspects are accused of attempted murder, police said. The identity of the
adult suspect was not released Friday.

A 38-year-old woman who was struck by a vehicle in Pomona last week died of her
injuries a week later, police reported today.

Jessica Alvarez of Pomona was struck just after 7 p.m. on July 20 at the
intersection of Bonita and Melbourne avenues. She was taken to Pomona Valley
Hospital in critical condition and was pronounced dead about 3:25 p.m. Thursday,
according to the Pomona Police Department.

The driver remained at the scene and cooperated with police.

The pedestrian fatality was under investigation by the department's Major
Accident Investigation Team.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              438 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             June 8, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

They took our student;
The arrest of Claudia Rueda by immigration agents shows the cruelty of Trump's
policies.

BYLINE: Beth Baker, Alejandra Marchevsky, Beth Baker is professor of
anthropology and Alejandra Marchevsky is professor of liberal studies and
women's, gender and sexuality studies at Cal State Los Angeles.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Opinion Desk; Part A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 875 words


On the morning of May 18, Cal State Los Angeles student Claudia Rueda
disappeared in East L.A. The 22-year-old immigrant rights activist stepped
outside her aunt's home to move her mother's car for street cleaning, but never
returned. Hours later her family learned that she had been surrounded by three
unmarked cars carrying an estimated nine plainclothes Customs and Border
Protection officers who whisked her off to a detention center 130 miles away.

Claudia is a Latin American studies major at Cal State L.A., where we are
faculty. At the time of her arrest, Claudia was enrolled in one of our courses
on U.S. immigration policy that studied the effects of deportation on families
and communities. This subject was not just academic for her; it hit close to the
bone.

Once in class she asked, "Why aren't more people advocating for immigrant
rights, or against the further creation of illegality, when populations of
children and parents across borders are suffering due to U.S. policies?"
Although she is eligible for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or
DACA, program, which would protect her from deportation, her family could not
afford the $500 application fee. Claudia worried constantly that she or one of
her family members would be deported from the country where they have lived for
more than 15 years.

In late April, it seemed that Claudia's worst fears were realized when her
mother, Teresa Vidal-Jaime, was swept up in a drug raid by a joint task force of
the CBP and the L.A. County sheriff at the apartment complex where they lived.
Although Vidal-Jaime was not charged with a crime, she was detained by
immigration officials for overstaying her visa. Vidal-Jaime was released by an
immigration court on $2,000 bond, thanks in part to a high-profile campaign led
by the Los Angeles Immigrant Youth Coalition, of which Claudia is a member.

Less than a week later, the CBP returned to East L.A. looking for Claudia.
Residents reported that dozens of CBP agents knocked on doors at her former
apartment building and at her aunt's nearby home asking for information about
Claudia's whereabouts and even followed her neighbors for miles on their way to
work to question, and in some cases arrest, them.

In total, the CBP arrested seven community members that day, including Claudia
and several residents from her former apartment building. Although none had a
criminal record, four were deported to Tijuana within 24 hours without seeing a
judge or a lawyer, and the rest are detained and in danger of deportation. The
CBP claims that these arrests were part of a "criminal investigation," but has
not produced any evidence that connects Claudia or the others to any crime.

Claudia is the face of immigration enforcement under the Trump administration.
Under current executive guidelines, any immigrant suspected of a crime, even if
never arrested, charged or convicted, has become a priority for deportation.
Basic due process, such as the right to know the charges and evidence against
you, is absent in the immigration system. This policy has led to a 32% increase
in immigrant detentions in the first three months of Trump's presidency compared
with the same time last year, and a 100% increase in the detention of people
with no criminal record or with only minor traffic infractions. "Criminal
investigations" serve as a pretext for a policy of mass deportation of
immigrants who have deep ties in local communities.

Trump recently claimed, "We are not after the Dreamers. We are after the
criminals." However, data show a 25% increase in the deportation of Dreamers, as
DACA recipients are known, in the first three months of Trump's presidency,
compared with the same time last year. Immigrant youth who encounter the police
are more likely to have their DACA status revoked and be detained by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Claudia's case also illuminates the government's apparent practice of going
after undocumented activists who challenge its immigration policies. Claudia's
detention less than one week after her mother was released seems like payback by
the CBP for her activism and leadership. She is one of several youth activists
since Trump's inauguration who have been targeted by immigration agencies in
what seems to be an attempt to silence them.

In March, undercover ICE agents in Vermont arrested three prominent undocumented
activists associated with the group Migrant Justice, all of them younger than
25. In that same month, ICE agents in Mississippi detained 22-year-old DACA
recipient Daniela Vargas after she spoke at a rally calling on the Trump
administration to establish a path to citizenship for immigrants.

Those concerned about creeping authoritarianism in U.S. governance should be
deeply troubled by Claudia's experience. After four weeks in detention without
seeing a judge, Claudia will finally have a bond hearing on Friday. ICE can and
should exercise its discretion to release her immediately and process her
application for DACA. State and local politicians who promised to create
sanctuaries for residents like Claudia need to ensure that local law enforcement
agencies are not using valuable public resources to sow fear by collaborating
with immigration enforcement efforts.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POLICE detain Claudia Rueda, then 17, at a protest for immigrant
rights in L.A. in 2012. She was arrested again last month.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Damian
Dovarganes Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion piece

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              439 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday

Can Hulu's 'Runaways' Correct Marvel's Racial Bias?

BYLINE: John Martin

LENGTH: 819 words


Next Tuesday, November 21, will see the release of Marvel's Runaways TV series
on Hulu. Critics have responded optimistically in early reviews, with Deadline
even heralding the show as "A Response to Trump's America." Runaways is based on
the early 2000s YA comic of the same name, initially written by Brian K. Vaughan
(Saga, Y: The Last Man) and drawn by Adrian Alphona (Ms. Marvel, Uncanny
X-Force).

The book was a triumphant read for teens growing up in that era, myself
included. In a world where most super-teams consist of just one girl, the
Runaways, with only two male members, were mostly but not entirely female.
Runaways avoided an isolating girl-group trope that rarely makes narrative sense
(see: Brian Wood's all-girl run on X-Men). But reexamining the book now, it
seems clear in light of some of our recent political movements that it made
pretty bad choices regarding race. Warning: the following is full of spoilers.
If you haven't read Runaways or are planning on watching the show, this may give
away some of the plot.

The Runaways comic tells the story of six Los Angeles teenagers who find out
that their parents are part of a supervillain outfit known as the Pride. The
Pride's goal is to enable otherworldly entities known as the Gibborim to
initiate an apocalyptic event where humanity will perish, with only a few
members of the Pride surviving. Each pair of parents fulfills a different
supervillain trope, which matches symbolic requirements for the Gibborim's
rites-there's the Travelers (time travelers), Magicians, Outcasts (mutants), the
Wise Men (mad scientists) and the Colonists (aliens). Then there's the Thieves,
who (surprise, surprise) are the only black family-Geoffrey and Catherine Wilder
and their son, Alex.

Along with being members of the Pride, Geoffrey and Catherine are the premier
crime bosses of Los Angeles. They're drug kingpins who have the corrupt LAPD
serving as their lapdogs. Vaughan seems at least marginally aware of some of the
stereotypes to avoid when creating these characters. While Geoffrey does speak
in an African American vernacular, the Wilder family live in a house in Malibu,
dress in a fairly average style, and have an extensive sports car collection.
They're more Sopranos than Boyz N Tha Hood. But Vaughan still decides to
outright classify Geoffrey and Catherine as "thieves."

The Wilder's son, Alex, along with the rest of the progeny of these
supervillains, starts out the comic ostensibly rebelling against his parents
murderous, catastrophic ambitions. But there's a tragic twist: at the end of the
first series, Alex reveals himself as a mole, betrays his teenage do-gooder
friends, and the story ends with his death alongside the rest of the Pride.
Vaughan would go on to bring back Geoffrey and Catherine in later editions of
Runaways, resurrecting them to continue on as thorns in the kids' side while
their mostly-white fellow Pride members remained dead. The Japanese Minoru
family of witches are the only other racial minorities among the principle
characters of the story.

To be clear, I don't think there's anything wrong with having black antagonists
in Runaways. Based on the concept of the book, where all the teen protagonists'
parents are villains, you would need to have black villains to have a black
hero. Also, it makes sense for Alex to be the mole: Being the son of criminal
masterminds, he's a whiz at planning and organizing. But why did Alex, the
traitor, have to be the token black character as opposed to one of the other
Runaways? Why are the black villains "the Thieves" as opposed mutants or mad
scientists? It seems as if unconscious bias is at play. This may be just a comic
book, but the stereotypes on which these characters seem to have been based have
real-world, damaging consequences. In the worst cases, the consequences of this
pervasive racial bias are lethal. In making these narrative choices, Vaughan has
fed into harmful and inaccurate stereotypes that criminalize black citizens of
this country.

Taking this into consideration, it would have been better if Runaways had had no
black characters at all. And this isn't the only glaring racial misstep, none of
the original Runaways characters are Latino-yet it's set in L.A. This is more
than an oversight in a city where 49 percent of the population is hispanic or
latino. Hulu's Runaways seems to have smartly remedied that, changing the
character of mutant Molly Hayes into Molly Hernandez played by Allegra Acosta.
And Latina actor Ariela Barer, known for her work on Netflix's excellent Puerto
Rican sitcom One Day At a Time, will play Gert Yorkes, the daughter of  the
time-travelers.  Let's hope the TV adaptation has also made some smarter choices
in the portrayal of its black characters.

Media guru Johnnie Martin discusses all the KaPOW that's fit to print in the
weekly comics column Near Mint. You can find him on Twitter @TopNotchGaymer.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              440 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2017 Wednesday

California authorities seize over 7000 birds in largest cockfighting bust in US
history

BYLINE: Wes Woods, Southern California News Group

LENGTH: 554 words



HIGHLIGHT: An illegal cockfighting bust on Monday in unincorporated Val Verde
was the largest ever in the U.S., authorities said.


SANTA CLARITA VALLEY - An illegal cockfighting bust on Monday in unincorporated
Val Verde was the largest ever in the U.S., authorities said.

"Any type of animal blood sport activity is a serious crime and will not be
tolerated in Los Angeles County," Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Capt.
Jeff Perry said during a news conference Tuesday, where officials played a video
displaying what was found at the 80-acre property in the 29000 block of Jackson
Street.

What was found was more than 7,000 roosters, including dead birds, a variety of
weapons believed to be used in cockfighting contests - adding up to what was
called the largest such seizure in the country's history, Perry said.

Investigators also found recovered were hundreds of gaffs, or slashers, he said.

"They put them on the roosters' claws so when they fight, they literally slash
each other to death," Perry said.

Syringes and steroids for the animals were also recovered, he said.

Perry, who commands the sheriff's community partnership bureau, said the
warrants served Monday in Val Verde were the culmination of a months-long
investigation by detectives who specialize in "animal, blood sport type crimes."

"It was very large and in a remote location in a canyon," Perry said, who added
that 100 sheriff's department personnel secured the location and helped with
animal care and control. .

Ten people were detained at the scene, Perry said. He described them as
lower-level workers who took care of the animals. The property owner has been
identified as the primary suspect but officials declined to name him.

"We anticipate to make several arrests in relation to this case," Perry said.

The Humane Society received complaints earlier this year from area residents of
suspected cockfighting going on in the Val Verde/Castaic area, said Eric Sakach,
senior law enforcement specialist for the Humane Society. The complaints were
turned over to the L.A. County Department of Animal Care and Control and its
major crimes unit, Sakach said.

He said his organization learned in 2007 the property had been the site of a
search warrant and 2,700 birds were seized.

"It appears after that initial one was shut down they started back up even
bigger," said Perry, adding that his department believes the site is primarily
being used for breeding, raising and selling the animals to buyers in Los
Angeles and neighboring counties.

Perry said the property has had the same owner since the previous search
warrant. Sakach defined cockfighting at the news conference as "two roosters
being forced to fight to the death often with at least one or both birds dying a
violent, agonizing death."

It's a problem beyond Santa Clarita, where tens of thousands of dollars are
waged at cockfighting events and exchanged through illegal bird sales throughout
the country, said Kimberly Abourezk, deputy district attorney and animal cruelty
case coordinator for the L.A. County District Attorney's Office.

In general, Sakach estimates that birds can sell for between $75 and $150. On
cockfighting websites, prices can range from $250 to $1,000. And a bird with a
winning reputation can fetch more than four figures, Sakach said.

Perry recommended people call their local law enforcement agency, Humane Society
or Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals if they know of similar
crimes.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ome 7,000 birds were seized in one of the largest raids of illegal
cockfighting in United States history, authorities said Tuesday, May 16, 2017.
About 100 Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies conducted the raid on Monday,
May 15, 2017, in Val Verde, authorities said at a news conference. The birds
seized included roosters, hens and chicks. (Photo courtesy of the LA County
Sheriff's Department)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              441 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Pilot accused of flying under the influence Local man linked to drug trafficking
Man shoots rounds in known gang area Resident attacked at park after waking man

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 744 words

ABSTRACT

crime briefs from the San Gabriel Valley and Whittier area

FULL TEXT

The pilot of a small plane was arrested on suspicion of operating an aircraft
while under the influence after he ran out of fuel and landed in a business
parking lot in the Whittier area, authorities saidTuesday.

Darrell Roberts, 58, of the Riverside County community of Winchester, was taken
into custody after the Piper airplane landed late Monday night in the 3700 block
of Workman Mill Road, said Lt. Alex Villanueva of the sheriff's Pico Rivera
Station.

Roberts was booked on suspicion of misdemeanor operating an aircraft while under
the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, and was held in lieu of $1,000 bail. His
next court appearance was scheduled for July 5 in Downey.

Roberts was alone in the airplane and was not injured. The airplane was not
damaged. He was en route from Temecula to San Diego when the airplane ran out of
fuel, forcing him to land where he did, Villanueva said.

A Pasadena man linked to a drug trafficking organization that allegedly shipped
cocaine and heroin from Los Angeles to Detroit was charged Monday, a U.S.
Department of Justice spokesman said

Kevin Blair, also known as "Wood," 45, appeared in U.S. District Court in Los
Angeles and was ordered held without bail, DOJ spokesman Thom Mrozek said in a
statement.

Blair, along with Delano Leflore, also known as "Bop Bop," 37, of Detroit, was
charged with conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute and distributing
heroin and cocaine. The latter charge carries a potential penalty of life in
federal prison.

Leflore remains a fugitive and is being sought by federal officials, Mrozek
said.

The case against the two men follows a March 7 seizure of about two kilograms of
heroin and about one kilogram of cocaine at LAX, Mrozek said.

According to the complaint, Leflore hired Kennsha Mason, 28, of Detroit to
transport narcotics and made arrangements for her to travel from Detroit to Los
Angeles, he said. In early March, Mason traveled to a townhouse on South Oakland
Avenue in Pasadena, officials said, where Blair allegedly supplied the narcotics
that were discovered by law enforcement in her suitcase.

On Friday,Blair was taken into custody by the Pasadena Police Department on an
outstanding felony warrant, issued by a Michigan court, for assault with intent
to murder, Mrozek said.

Upon his arrest, police found a UPS shipment receipt, and recovered one kilogram
of suspected heroin and one ounce of suspected fentanyl, according to the
criminal complaint.

Blair is set to appear on April 17 for a preliminary hearing in U.S. District
Court, Mrozek said.

The DEA Los Angeles International Airport Narcotics Task Force, an inter-agency
task force based at LAX, is conducting this investigation, with assistance
provided by Pasadena police.

A man shot a gun several times in a known gang area on Monday, authorities said.

The man, age 20 to 25 years, driving a gray Honda Accord, stopped at 12:15 p.m.
in the 14500 block of Fidel Street, got out of the car, and shot two rounds,
said Lt. Jeff Dusky of the sheriff's Norwalk station.

He got back in the car and drove north and shot three more rounds at Claressa
and Markdale avenues, he said.

Shell casings were found at each location.

No one was injured.

A man sleeping at a local park allegedly beat a resident after she woke him up
to tell him the park was closed for the night, authorities said.

Sgt. James Long of the sheriff's Temple Station said the victim's face was
swollen and bruised. Blood was also coming out of her nose and mouth. She opted
to seek her own medical treatment.

The attack happened at Temple City Park at 9701 Las Tunas Drive around 11:50
p.m. Monday.

Long said the victim and her friend headed to the park where they sat in a
gazebo. He described the two women as being in their 50s. Also in the gazebo was
a sleeping man.

Long said the friend had walked away when the resident woke up the man to tell
him the park was closed.

"He assaults her, smashes her head on the ground and punches her in the face,"
Long said. The assailant also sat on the resident.

The victim's friend heard the screaming and came back. Long said the friend told
deputies she saw the suspect hit her friend then got off her. The assailant then
sat in the gazebo.

It wasn't clear if the victim or her friend called police.

Long said Vel Adidala, 29, was arrested on suspicion of assault upon another
person by any means of force likely to produce great bodily injury.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            March 18, 2017 Saturday

Man arrested in 4-month-old son's death

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 229 words


POMONA >> A 31-year-old man was being held in lieu of $1 million bail Thursday
following his arrest for allegedly causing fatal injuries to his 4-month-old son
in Pomona.

Brandon Keion Dozier of Los Angeles was arrested Tuesday, according to police
and sheriff's inmate records.

Officers were called at 6:55 p.m. March 5 to the 400 block of Madison Avenue
regarding a 4-month-old child who was choking and not breathing, according to
Pomona police Sgt. Brian Hagerty.

Police and Los Angeles County Fire Department paramedics got the child breathing
again, and he was taken to Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, Hagerty said.

At 7:50 a.m. the following day, Fontana police informed Pomona investigators of
a child abuse investigation at Kaiser Hospital related to the same baby boy, the
sergeant said.

"Detectives responded to the hospital to investigate the child abuse," Hagerty
said. "Detectives' investigation revealed the victim had injuries consistent
with 'shaken baby syndrome.' "

The boy was pronounced dead from his injuries, Hagerty said.

"During the detectives' investigation, it was also revealed that the father of
the choking victim was the primary suspect," according to Hagerty, who said
Dozier was booked on suspicion of child abuse likely to produce great bodily
injury, resulting in the child's death.

It was not immediately clear when Dozier is next due in court.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              443 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             April 14, 2017 Friday

Arraignment for suspect in killing of officer is delayed

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales; rugonzales@scng.com @RubyGonzales2 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 370 words

ABSTRACT

Thursday's arraignment for a man accused of killing a Whittier police officer
was continued to May 15. The court did appoint an attorney for Michael Mejia.

FULL TEXT

WHITTIER >> The arraignment was delayed for a Los Angeles man accused ofgunning
down his cousin, then shooting two Whittier police officers, one fatally, during
a February crime spree that spanned East Los Angeles and Whittier.

Michael Christopher "Stomper" Mejia appeared Thursday at Norwalk Superior Court
for a hearing that was continued to May 15, according to Greg Risling, spokesman
for the District Attorney's Office.

He said the alternate public defender's office declared a conflict of interest
and the judge appointed an attorney for Mejia.

The prosecutioncharged Mejialast month with the murder of 53-year-oldOfficer
Keith Boyer, the murder of47-year-old Roy Torres, the attempted murder of
Officer Patrick Hazell, one count of carjacking and one count of possession of a
firearm by a convicted felon.

Boyer was the first Whittier police officer to die in the line of duty since
1979.

The 26-year-old Mejia was also charged with numerous allegations that include
killing Boyer to avoid being arrested, intentionally firing the gun that caused
Boyer and Torres' death, discharging a handgun that caused great bodily injury
to Hazell, using a gun during the carjacking and committing the crimes for the
benefit of a gang.

Mejia, a reputed East L.A. gang member, was on probation at the time of the
crime spree. He could face the death penalty, but the District Attorney's Office
has not decided yet if it will seek it.

Sheriff's Homicide Lt. John Corina said Mejia went over to East L.A. to kill his
cousin, Roy Torres, over a personal dispute.

After fatally shooting Torres, he said Mejia took the victim's car. Corina
wasn't sure why Mejia ended up in Whittier. He crashed into a car that rear
ended another vehicle on Colima Road and Mar Vista Street.

Officers Boyer and Hazell responded to the crash. Corina said when the officers
ordered Mejia to get out of the car, he opened fire at them.

Hazell was shot in the abdomen. Boyer was shot several times in the torso and
died at a hospital, according to Corina.

Mejia was also wounded in the gunfight.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              444 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 14, 2017 Saturday

5 arrested in death of sheriff's Sgt. Owen

BYLINE: Ryan Carter; rcarter@scng.com @RyInIE on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words

ABSTRACT

Deputy

FULL TEXT

Five men have been arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of a Lancaster
sheriff's deputy, authorities said Friday.

Los Angeles County sheriff's Sgt. Steve Owen, 53, was gunned down on Oct. 5 as
he and a fellow deputy were responding to a 911 call reporting a burglary at a
Lancaster apartment building.

The man suspected of killing Owen - Trenton Trevon Lovell, 27, of Lancaster -
was wounded in a shoulder by a deputy but was ultimately arrested and booked on
suspicion of murder.

He pleaded not guilty on Monday.

But L.A. County sheriff's homicide detectives didn't stop investigating the
incident.

They found informa

tion that the five arrested Thursday tried to help Lovell evade arrest after he
shot Owen and went on to hold two teens hostage, according to a Sheriff's
Department release.

Arrested on suspicion of accessory after the fact were Lydell Herd, 31; Robert
Thomas, 28; Richard Cowley, 24; Larry Johnson, 27; and Deshawn Peterson, 18.

All are from L.A. except Peterson of Lancaster.

All were arrested on Thursday after warrants were served at or near their homes.

Herd also was accused of possession of narcotics for sale. Thomas and Cowley
also were accused of unlawful possession of a firearm, and Johnson was suspected
of violating parole, according to the Sheriff's Department.

The investigation is ongoing, and there are no further details at this time.

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department's Homicide Bureau at 323-890-5500. For anonymous tips, you
may call "Crime Stoppers" by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), use your smartphone by
downloading the "P3 Tips" Mobile APP, or "P3 Mobile" for the hearing impaired,
on Google play or the App Store, or by using the website
http://lacrimestoppers.org.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              445 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           January 14, 2017 Saturday

5 arrested in death of sheriff's Sgt. Owen

BYLINE: Ryan Carter; rcarter@scng.com @RyInIE on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words

ABSTRACT

Deputy

FULL TEXT

Five men have been arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of a Lancaster
sheriff's deputy, authorities said Friday.

Los Angeles County sheriff's Sgt. Steve Owen, 53, was gunned down on Oct. 5 as
he and a fellow deputy were responding to a 911 call reporting a burglary at a
Lancaster apartment building.

The man suspected of killing Owen - Trenton Trevon Lovell, 27, of Lancaster -
was wounded in a shoulder by a deputy but was ultimately arrested and booked on
suspicion of murder.

He pleaded not guilty on Monday.

But L.A. County sheriff's homicide detectives didn't stop investigating the
incident.

They found informa

tion that the five arrested Thursday tried to help Lovell evade arrest after he
shot Owen and went on to hold two teens hostage, according to a Sheriff's
Department release.

Arrested on suspicion of accessory after the fact were Lydell Herd, 31; Robert
Thomas, 28; Richard Cowley, 24; Larry Johnson, 27; and Deshawn Peterson, 18.

All are from L.A. except Peterson of Lancaster.

All were arrested on Thursday after warrants were served at or near their homes.

Herd also was accused of possession of narcotics for sale. Thomas and Cowley
also were accused of unlawful possession of a firearm, and Johnson was suspected
of violating parole, according to the Sheriff's Department.

The investigation is ongoing, and there are no further details at this time.

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department's Homicide Bureau at 323-890-5500. For anonymous tips, you
may call "Crime Stoppers" by dialing 800-222-TIPS (8477), use your smartphone by
downloading the "P3 Tips" Mobile APP, or "P3 Mobile" for the hearing impaired,
on Google play or the App Store, or by using the website
http://lacrimestoppers.org.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              446 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            April 19, 2017 Wednesday

Senior falls, rolls 100 feet down slope Man sleeping in front of library shot
Duo get 80 years to life in 'payback' killing

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 407 words

ABSTRACT

crime briefs from the San Gabriel Valley and Whittier areas

FULL TEXT

Firefighters used a helicopter to rescue an elderly man who fell 100 feet down a
slope Tuesday, authorities said.

The rescue took place in the 1900 block of Bluebird Road around 9:30 a.m.

Los Angeles County Fire Inspector Joey Marron said the man was doing yard work
when he fell and rolled down the slope.

A fire department helicopter hoisted the injured man and took him to Los Angeles
County USC Medical Center as a precaution, according to Marron.

Deputies checking an alarm at a local library early Tuesday discovered a man
with gunshot wounds to the leg and stomach.

The man told deputies he didn't see who shot him while he slept in front of the
Sunkist Library at 840 Puente Ave., according to Sgt. James Beamon of the
sheriff's Industry Station.

The victim said there was someone else who slept by the library but refused to
identify this person. Beamon said deputies didn't find the second transient when
they arrived around 2:40 a.m.

The station didn't get a call about the shooting. Deputies were sent to the
library on an alarm call.

Deputies think a bullet hit the building which triggered the alarm.

Paramedics took the man to a hospital. Beamon said the injuries were not
life-threatening.

Two gang members were sentenced Monday to 80 years to life in prison for the
killing of a 51-year-old Pomona man in 2015 in payback for an earlier gang
shooting.

Jurors convicted Donnell Parker, 24, and Terry Wayne Smith, 32, of one count
each of murder and possession of a firearm by a felon. The jury panel also found
gun and gang allegations for both men.

Parker and Smith requested their sentences be handed down immediately after the
verdict was read.

The victim, Gregory Montgomery, was gunned down about 10:30 a.m. on May 8, 2015,
as he stood in the front yard of his home in the 200 block of Fanshaw Avenue.
Witnesses said two men walked up and opened fire.

Montgomery died at the scene.

Deputy District Attorney David Barkhurst of the hardcore gang division said
Montgomery's killing was "payback" for the drive-by shooting of a gang member
less than a mile away on March 1, 2015.

Montgomery had once been a member of a rival gang, according to Barkhurst.

"He was targeted because of that membership," the prosecutor said, adding that
there was no evidence that Montgomery had anything to do with the other man's
death.

"He was a victim of circumstances," Barkhurst said.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              447 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                             July 6, 2017, Thursday

Snowfall tells birth of cocaine in Los Angeles

BYLINE: Jonathan Landrum Jr. The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P6D

LENGTH: 608 words


By Jonathan Landrum Jr. The Associated Press

ATLANTA Filmmaker John Singleton remembered taking a ride through a section of a
south Los Angeles neighborhood seeing security bars on every window and huge
metal gates surrounding each home.

The recent drive instantly reminded Singleton about when residents in the area
first took cautioned measures to guard their house to prevent home invasions
during the 1980s crack cocaine epidemic.

People made it almost like they were imprisoning themselves in their homes, the
Los Angeles native recalled. In the early 80s, people started breaking into
peoples houses. Crack really took hold back then. ... But this is a story no one
has ever told before. Theres always a new cocaine story thats East Coast. But
theres really never a story how the West Coast changed from this. So, I wanted
to get into it.

Singleton co-created the new series Snowfall, which focuses on the genesis of
how crack cocaine became a rampant epidemic in Los Angeles inner city
neighborhoods in 1983. The first season premiered Wednesday night on FX.

Singleton, an Oscar-nominated writer-director, is best known for his
critically-acclaimed movies from Boyz N the Hood, Poetic Justice and Higher
Learning. But these days, he is doing more television after directing episodes
of Empire and The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story along with the
BET drama Rebel.

Its like making a movie every week, instead of every couple of years, he said.
For me, I like telling stories. I have so many of them. With Snowfall, I can
tell a story about real folks and what they are going through.

Snowfall tells a story of a violent collision course involving a young street
entrepreneur, a Mexican wrestler tied up in a power struggle with a crime
family, the daughter of a Mexican crime lord and a CIA operative who begins an
off-book operation to fund the Nicaraguan Contras.

This story is very important and must be told and seen, said Damson Idris, who
plays the star character of 19-year-old Franklin Saint, a street-minded
entrepreneur who was educated in an upper class neighborhood. Hes determined to
get into the drug game to take care of people around him.

Not only does it speak to an older generation who may have survived or lived
through it, but it might speak to a new generation who may not be as informed,
he continues. Its going to teach people about their past.

Idris, an actor of Nigerian descent who grew up in London, said he didnt know
anything about the drug epidemic in the United States until he visited Los
Angeles for the first time and saw Skid Row an impoverished area inhabited by
the homeless. He called the experience heartbreaking.

When we hear about these drugs stories, we tend to think, Wow, do we need to see
black people in turmoil? Or black people struggling? he said. But I want people
to know that this show doesnt glorify or glamorize crack cocaine or any other
drug. Kids were born into this. They are surrounded by people who are still on
this drug, people who didnt survive and was destroyed by it.

Singleton said it took some years for Snowfall to see an actual premiere date.
He said Showtime was originally supposed to air the series, but he said the
network parted ways with them because they just didnt get it.

It was before Empire became a hit, he said. It was a strong urban based show.
[Showtime] just didnt get it. But when Empire hit, FX finally picked Snowfall
up. I guess [Showtime] is doing another show thats Chicago-based. Theyre trying
to catch up. Get them some flavor. Everybody wants to be black. They want black
people now. Were giving it to them uncut, something theyve never seen before.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Charleston Newspapers


                              448 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Raids nab 21 suspected MS-13 gang members

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


LOS ANGELES >> Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of
the violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday
in the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.

The 21 suspects arrested Wednesday were among 44 defendants named in a sweeping
anti-racketeering indictment, some of whom are already in jail, according to the
U.S. attorney's office.

The massive sweep capped a nearly three-year investigation involving federal,
state and local law enforcement authorities.

"These cases constitute the largest crackdown of MS-13 ever conducted in Los
Angeles," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown at a news
conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the arrests.

She added that more than half

of the suspects named in the indictment were in the country illegally, but U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement was not involved in the investigation.

"This has nothing to do with their immigration status," said Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck as he joined Brown and other members of the law enforcement
community. "This has to do with their criminal status. I will add that many of
the witnesses that allowed us to do this by their statements also have
immigration issues."

Those arrested by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs include the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region, authorities said.

The high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto MS-13 leadership council, a
committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the top
role in light of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement, authorities said.

The indictment charges three MS-13 members for killings they are accused of
committing in connection with the gang's activities.

One suspect, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, 23, also known as "Little Boy," faces
a violent crime in aid of racketeering - or VICAR - murder charge for allegedly
fatally shooting an innocent bystanderon Aug. 15, 2015, inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue, officials said. A friend of the victim was also stabbed during the
attack.

Two other suspected MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, 39, known as
"Blacky," and Joffri Molina, 24, known as "Espia" - are also charged with
murder.

Rivas is charged with murder in the death a man on Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip
mall in Pacoima. Molina is charged with murder in the death of a man on Sept.
27, 2015, on a street in North Hollywood.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Brown said. "With thousands of members here in the Southland,
the gang's power is widespread, power which it maintains with severe acts of
violence."

The three people facing murder charges could face the death penalty if
convicted, authorities said.

Beck said there were 800 documented MS-13 members in L.A.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              449 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Raids nab 21 suspected MS-13 gang members

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


LOS ANGELES >> Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of
the violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday
in the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.

The 21 suspects arrested Wednesday were among 44 defendants named in a sweeping
anti-racketeering indictment, some of whom are already in jail, according to the
U.S. attorney's office.

The massive sweep capped a nearly three-year investigation involving federal,
state and local law enforcement authorities.

"These cases constitute the largest crackdown of MS-13 ever conducted in Los
Angeles," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown at a news
conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the arrests.

She added that more than half

of the suspects named in the indictment were in the country illegally, but U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement was not involved in the investigation.

"This has nothing to do with their immigration status," said Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck as he joined Brown and other members of the law enforcement
community. "This has to do with their criminal status. I will add that many of
the witnesses that allowed us to do this by their statements also have
immigration issues."

Those arrested by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs include the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region, authorities said.

The high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto MS-13 leadership council, a
committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the top
role in light of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement, authorities said.

The indictment charges three MS-13 members for killings they are accused of
committing in connection with the gang's activities.

One suspect, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, 23, also known as "Little Boy," faces
a violent crime in aid of racketeering - or VICAR - murder charge for allegedly
fatally shooting an innocent bystanderon Aug. 15, 2015, inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue, officials said. A friend of the victim was also stabbed during the
attack.

Two other suspected MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, 39, known as
"Blacky," and Joffri Molina, 24, known as "Espia" - are also charged with
murder.

Rivas is charged with murder in the death a man on Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip
mall in Pacoima. Molina is charged with murder in the death of a man on Sept.
27, 2015, on a street in North Hollywood.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Brown said. "With thousands of members here in the Southland,
the gang's power is widespread, power which it maintains with severe acts of
violence."

The three people facing murder charges could face the death penalty if
convicted, authorities said.

Beck said there were 800 documented MS-13 members in L.A.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              450 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 28, 2017 Saturday

Jamaican National Indicted in Federal Drug Case for Allegedly Supplying Flight
Attendant with nearly 60 Pounds of Cocaine

LENGTH: 482  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Central District of
California has issued the following news release:



  A federal grand jury has named a Jamaican man in an indictment that accuses
him of supplying a Jet Blue flight attendant with nearly 60 pounds of cocaine
that she attempted to smuggle on to a plane at Los Angeles International
Airport.





           Gaston Brown, 39, of Jamaica, was charged yesterday with one count of
conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine, and one count of
possession with intent to distribute cocaine.



           Brown is currently serving a one-year-and-one-day federal prison
sentence after being convicted in the Southern District of Florida of illegal
re-entry after deportation. A federal judge yesterday issued a writ directing
that Brown be brought to Los Angeles for an arraignment, which will likely be in
mid-February.



           Brown allegedly supplied the narcotics to Marsha Gay Reynolds, a
former JetBlue flight attendant, who pleaded guilty last month to federal drug
charges and admitted she attempted to bring the narcotics through a security
checkpoint at LAX by using her "known crewmember" credentials.



           "This case demonstrates law enforcement's commitment to disrupting
dangerous drug trafficking networks," said United States Attorney Eileen M.
Decker. "After making the large seizure of narcotics at LAX, investigators
continued to look into this matter, which resulted in the indictment of a
defendant who was trafficking a significant amount of cocaine."



           An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a
crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty
in court.



           If Brown is convicted of the drug trafficking charges, he would face
a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in federal prison and a maximum
possible sentence of life.



           This investigation is being conducted by the Los Angeles
International Airport Criminal Enterprise Task Force (LAACETF), an inter-agency
task force based at LAX. The Task Force, which includes representatives of the
FBI, the DEA, United States Customs and Border Protection, the Transportation
Security Administration, the Los Angeles International Airport Police
Department, the Los Angeles Police Department, and the Los Angeles Sheriff's
Department. The LAACETF provides a coordinated law enforcement effort to target
airport/airline internal criminal enterprises that use the aviation system to
transport large amounts of illicit drugs throughout the United States and
various international destinations.



           This matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney
Reema M. El-Amamy of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              451 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           September 10, 2017 Sunday

LAPD looking forrobbery suspects

BYLINE: Wes Woods; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 381 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles police are looking for two people wanted in connection with stealing
valuables after telling people they had bird poop on their clothes before wiping
them down in the Hollywood area.

FULL TEXT

Los Angeles police are looking for two people wanted in connection with stealing
valuables after telling people they had bird poop on their clothes before wiping
them down in the Hollywood area.

The thefts occurred between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Aug. 29 with the first on Sycamore
Street north of Hollywood Boulevard and a second at the corner of Franklin
Street and Orchid Avenue, authorities said.

Officer Mike Lopez of the Los Angeles Police Department's Media Relations
Section said Saturday there had been no updates to the case despite a video
released of the incidents on Friday.

The victims were approached from behind, the Los Angeles Police Department said,
and the two suspects - a man and a woman - tossed an unknown type of liquid on
the back of their clothing.

Appearing concerned, the suspects then approached each victim separately and
told them they had bird poop on their clothing and would help clean them up,
police said.

During the "exaggerated" wipe down, officials said, the suspects removed a
wallet from a 71-year-old victim in one theft and a camera from a backpack in
another crime involving a 20-year-old. After each crime, the duo would enter a
Nissan Rogue with white paper plates that a third suspect drove in an unknown
direction.

The first suspect is described as a Hispanic man with black hair, brown eyes and
5 feet 7 inches tall, police said.

The man is believed to be between the age of 30 and 40 and weighing
approximately 180 pounds, authorities added. He was last seen wearing a blue
shirt, dark shorts and black tennis shoes with white soles.

A second suspect is described as a Hispanic woman with black hair who stands 5
feet 8 inches tall and her age ranges from 35 to 40, authorities said. She was
last seen in a black floppy hat, black flower shirt, black pants and black
shoes, officials added.

There is no description on the third suspect.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Officer Corona in the Hollywood
District at 213-972-2939 or 877-527-3247 during non-business hours. Anonymous
tipsters can contact Crime Stoppers at 800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              452 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             June 1, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Oakland settles with woman at center of police sex scandal;
City OKs $989,000 for woman who says officers had sex with her, some while she
was underage.

BYLINE: James Queally

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 831 words


The woman who alleged last year that she had sex with more than a dozen Oakland
police officers has settled a claim against the city for approximately $1
million, according to her attorney and the City Council.

The accusations made last year by a 19-year-old Richmond woman, who has asked to
be identified only as Jasmine, sparked national outrage and sent shock waves
through the Oakland Police Department and Bay Area law enforcement community.
Some of the encounters, Jasmine said, happened while she was underage. She also
claimed officers gave her information about planned police raids in exchange for
sex.

A series of investigations that began last summer has led to criminal charges
against seven Bay Area law enforcement officers, the departure of Police Chief
Sean Whent and discipline against several other Oakland officers. Investigators
with the Alameda County district attorney's office and the Richmond Police
Department were also fired amid fallout from the scandal.

"I feel happy that I can close this chapter and move on with my life," Jasmine
said during a news conference Wednesday afternoon.

The Los Angeles Times does not normally name victims of sexual crimes, but
Jasmine has repeatedly identified herself during a number of public appearances
and interviews. She was initially known by the pseudonym "Celeste Guap." On
Wednesday, she asked that reporters only identify her by her first name going
forward.

The city agreed to settle her claim for up to $989,000 during a City Council
meeting, according to the council's website. The vote did not take place until
around 2 a.m. Wednesday, passing 7 to 1, said civil rights attorney John Burris,
who represents Jasmine.

"The settlement occurred with no admission of liability, but obviously, if you
pay $1 million, you figure you got some responsibility," he said in a statement.

The dissenting vote came from Councilwoman Desley Brooks, who wanted Jasmine to
receive a larger settlement, according to Councilman Noel Gallo.

A formal lawsuit was never filed, Burris said. A notice of claim was filed with
the city last year, while Jasmine was represented by a different attorney.
Burris said he still may bring claims against the San Francisco, Livermore and
Richmond police departments, as well as the Alameda and Contra Costa county
sheriff's departments. Jasmine has made claims against officers in each agency,
Burris said.

On Wednesday, Burris referred to the officers as a "cabal" that took advantage
of a young woman.

"People were passing her around as if she was a kickball or something," Burris
said.

In a statement, Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf said the city is committed to moving
forward from the scandal and fostering a culture of accountability and
transparency within its police department.

"We remain focused on rebuilding the public trust that was so damaged by this
incident," she said.

The lurid details of the scandal stretch back to September 2015, when a suicide
note left by an Oakland police officer suggested he had been engaged in a sexual
relationship with a young sex worker in the city's troubled Fruitvale
neighborhood, which includes International Boulevard, Oakland's main
prostitution stroll.

The investigation widened in the summer, when Jasmine, then publicly known by
another name, told a television reporter that she had sex with more than a dozen
members of the Oakland Police Department as well as officials with other law
enforcement agencies in Alameda and Contra Costa counties.

Alameda County Dist. Atty. Nancy O'Malley announced charges last September
against five Oakland police officers, a former Contra Costa County sheriff's
deputy and a retired Livermore police officer in connection with the
investigation.

In January, former Oakland Police Officer Leroy Johnson pleaded no contest to
failure to report sexual misconduct with a minor, according to Assistant Dist.
Atty. Teresa Drenick. He was sentenced to three years' probation and ordered to
stay away from Jasmine, Drenick said. Retired Livermore Police Officer Dan Black
pleaded no contest to solicitation of lewd conduct in February, according to
Drenick. His judgment was deferred, and the case will be dismissed in May 2018
if he successfully completes probation, the prosecutor said.

Four former Oakland police officers and a former Contra Costa County deputy
still face charges in the case. Two are charged with having oral sexual
interactions with Jasmine while she was underage.

Gallo, the councilman who represents the Fruitvale neighborhood where Jasmine
has said her encounters with city police officers began, said he hoped the
settlement would be the first step in a long healing process for the woman. In
recent months she has taken part in anti-sex trafficking initiatives in the
Fruitvale neighborhood, he said.

"I admire her for where she is today, and certainly all the attention is
challenging, but she's looking for direction," Gallo said. "And that's what
we're trying to provide her."

--

james.queally@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAYOR Libby Schaaf said Oakland is committed to moving forward
from the months-long scandal.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Ben Margot Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              453 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Man booked in security guard's fatal stabbing

BYLINE: Brenda Gazzar; bgazzar@scng.com @bgazzar on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words

ABSTRACT

New details emerged Monday about the fatal stabbing of a security guard at a
shopping plaza in Sylmar allegedly by a man suspected of stealing beer.

FULL TEXT

New details emerged Monday about the fatal stabbing of a security guard at a
shopping plaza in Sylmar allegedly by a man suspected of stealing beer.

Santiago Madrigal, 24, of Sylmar was booked on suspicion of murder Sunday night
in the fatal stabbing of Joe Lopez, 28, of Pacoima at the plaza on Glenoaks
Boulevard near Hubbard Street on Saturday afternoon, authorities said.

Madrigal was being held at the Van Nuys jail in lieu of $2 million bail and was
expected to be arraignedtodayin San Fernando Court Department S, Los Angeles
Police Department Detective Efren Gutierrez said.

Madrigal, who had prior theft-related convictions, lives in a home near the
large plaza that includes a Food 4 Less and an Arby's.

"It was a vicious assault" by an "opportunistic thief that turned homicidal,"
Gutierrez, of Operations Valley Bureau Homicide, said. "The poor guy (Lopez) is
just doing his job and ends up getting killed over what appears to be
essentially a few cans of beer."

Gutierrez said the security officer apparently tried to detain the suspect, who
has a prosthetic leg, at the edge of the property following the theft from the
Food 4 Less. Madrigal then assaulted him with a knife or other sharp weapon,
stabbing him to death, he said.

Another security guard at the shopping plaza said Monday that Lopez was a
friendly guy who was just trying to care for his family.

"He was a really nice guy that didn't deserve this," said the guard, who
identified himself only as Royce, citing security concerns. "It was ... (for)
less than $20 worth of beer. It's not worth it."

Royce said that people, particularly transients and gang members, try to
shoplift on occasion because "they think it's easy."

"They don't know there's a security guard there; that's how ghetto it is,
honestly," he said.

Royce added that people have made threats on his life at the plaza for expelling
them from the property.

The LAPD's Gutierrez said that people in that line of work have to weigh the
risk when confronting a shoplifter, who may already have a criminal record.

"Essentially you never know who you are approaching," he said.

It may not be the safest behavior to try to detain someone, he said, and
"extreme caution" should be used when a private person makes an arrest.

A Food 4 Less manager declined to comment on the stabbing but noted that the
security guard did not work for the store. She said the security company had
been contracted by the property manager.

The property manager did not immediately return a call on Monday.

Some shoppers at the plaza Monday expressed surprise that something like this
could happen here. Others said it was just a matter of time.

Expectant mother Stephanie Cordova of Sylmar said she's seen a lot of people on
methamphetamine and other drugs in the area. She also urged Royce to avoid
chasing after suspects and suggested he get a gun to protect himself.

"Whoever owns this property is making a lot of money," Cordoba said. "You can
make sure your security is a little more secure."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              454 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           November 11, 2017 Saturday

Police to patrol city gold line stations;
Security: Officers expand their presence to make riders feel more comfortable

BYLINE: Jason Henry; jhenry@scng.com @JasonMHenry on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 456 words

ABSTRACT

The Metro Gold Line has always been the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department's responsibility, but now the Pasadena Police Department is taking on
a larger role.

FULL TEXT

For the first time, the Pasadena Police Department will soon patrol the city's
Gold Line stations through a $132,000 a year contract with the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

With the new funding, Pasadena will place two officers at the stations during
peak hours in the mornings and evenings. The officers will serve as the first
responders for most crimes, according to a staff report.

The expanded presence is an effort to make train riders feel more comfortable,
said Lt. Jason Clawson, the department's spokesman.

"There is a big difference between people being safe, and feeling safe," Clawson
said. "We want to get a higher level of policing and visibility in the area to
thwart any possible crimes around the Metro stations."

Earlier this year, Metro signed a five-year, $645 million contract with the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's, Los Angeles Police and Long Beach Police departments
to handle enforcement of the agency's 2,200 buses and six rail lines. The
changes increased the roles of the two police departments in their respective
cities and lessened the areas covered by the sheriff's department.

In Pasadena, sheriff's deputies will continue to have jurisdiction over the
trains and the tracks. The local officers will stick to the perimeters of the
stations unless there is an immediate safety issue, Clawson said.

The department does not have enough officers to take on a larger role, he said.

Pasadena Councilman Victor Gordo said he has received complaints about the lack
of law enforcement at the Gold Line stations, particularly the Lake Avenue
station in his district. Last year, a survey by Metro found that 29 percent of
former riders left the system because they did not feel it was safe, with 18
percent saying they would return if there were more police on the buses and rail
cars.

"This is an attempt on the part of our police department to address some of
those issues," Gordo said. "This will give us an opportunity to cross over into
what otherwise would be considered state or Metro jurisdiction to protect
passengers and the quality of life in, and around, the stations."

Metro's funding covers overtime pay for the two shifts; officers won't be taken
away from patrols in the city's neighborhoods and business districts.

"In a perfect world, we would partner with the sheriff's department to assist
them in their responsibility of patrolling and securing the Gold Line station,
the platforms and the trains," Gordo said. "We simply don't have the resources
at this time to offer that level of assistance."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              455 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 11, 2017 Saturday

Police to patrolgold line stations;
Officers expand their presence to make riders feel moresecure

BYLINE: Jason Henry; jhenry@scng.com @JasonMHenry on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 455 words

ABSTRACT

The Metro Gold Line has always been the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department's responsibility, but now the Pasadena Police Department is taking on
a larger role.

FULL TEXT

For the first time, the Pasadena Police Department will soon patrol the city's
Gold Line stations through a $132,000 a year contract with the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.

With the new funding, Pasadena will place two officers at the stations during
peak hours in the mornings and evenings. The officers will serve as the first
responders for most crimes, according to a staff report.

The expanded presence is an effort to make train riders feel more comfortable,
said Lt. Jason Clawson, the department's spokesman.

"There is a big difference between people being safe, and feeling safe," Clawson
said. "We want to get a higher level of policing and visibility in the area to
thwart any possible crimes around the Metro stations."

Earlier this year, Metro signed a five-year, $645 million contract with the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's, Los Angeles Police and Long Beach Police departments
to handle enforcement of the

agency's 2,200 buses and six rail lines. The changes increased the roles of the
two police departments in their respective cities and lessened the areas covered
by the sheriff's department.

In Pasadena, sheriff's deputies will continue to have jurisdiction over the
trains and the tracks. The local officers will stick to the perimeters of the
stations unless there is an immediate safety issue, Clawson said.

The department does not have enough officers to take on a larger role, he
said.Pasadena Councilman Victor Gordo said he has received complaints about the
lack of law enforcement at the Gold Line stations, particularly the Lake Avenue
station in his district. Last year, a survey by Metro found that 29 percent of
former riders left the system because they did not feel it was safe, with 18
percent saying they would return if there were more police on the buses and rail
cars.

"This is an attempt on the part of our police department to address some of
those issues," Gordo said. "This will give us an opportunity to cross over into
what otherwise would be considered state or Metro jurisdiction to protect
passengers and the quality of life in, and around, the stations."

Metro's funding covers overtime pay for the two shifts; officers won't be taken
away from patrols in the city's neighborhoods and business districts.

"In a perfect world, we would partner with the sheriff's department to assist
them in their responsibility of patrolling and securing the Gold Line station,
the platforms and the trains," Gordo said. "We simply don't have the resources
at this time to offer that level of assistance."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              456 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Mayor looks to Hollywood in re-election effort

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox; gwilcox@scng.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 459 words

ABSTRACT

Garcetti takes re-election campaign to Hollywood

FULL TEXT

HOLLYWOOD >> Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti on Tuesday touted his efforts to
enhance the state film tax credit program, which has brought movie and
television productions back to the city.

"It's the heart of our blue-collar economy. It's the bedrock of our middle
class, and it's about growing the middle class," Garcetti said of the
behind-the-camera jobs that fuel film and television productions.

The mayor, speaking during a re-election campaign stop at Raleigh Studios, was
on friendly turf and addressed a crowd of about 40 entertainment industry
executives, employees and union officials. The city election is March 7 and vote
by mail balloting already is underway.

In July 2015, the tax credit pool was increased to $330 million, which helped
prevent productions that had been leaving for other states. Garcetti said he
would like to see the credit pool boosted to $500 million.

State officials have made thetax credit more robustsince its inception in 2009,
and last year feature film production increased 12 percent to 4,865 shoot days.

A shoot day constitutes one calendar day of filming per production.

The mayor noted that he led the battle to triple the film tax credit, efforts
that brought 50,000 jobs and $1.7 billion in production back to the Golden
State.

"Other states were offering powerful incentives, and California had taken its
eye off the ball," the mayor said. "This is something that is important to all
of us."

The credit program also means that workers who live here can work in Los Angeles
again.

"Now, the below-the-line workers can tuck their kids in at night instead of
calling them from a hotel room," the mayor said.

Garcetti delivered his remarks on Stage 3, where the television series "Major
Crimes" is shot on Raleigh's 11-acre campus.

Producer James Duff, creator of "Major Crimes," credited Garcetti with helping
bring work back to L.A.

About 250 people work on the show, he said, and most are middle class.

"I just want to thank the mayor for fighting for the tax credit. It meant the
world to our industry," he said. "I can tell you as a fact, my show would not be
on the air if it weren't for the tax credit."

Raleigh CEO Mark Rosenthal stressed that the incentive program is working as
advertised.

"It's keeping high-paying, blue-collar jobs in California, and the state had to
do something," he said.

Rosenthal recalled losing the television show "Ugly Betty" to New York in the
middle of the last decade.

"They packed up the whole show and moved it to New York. It's a big deal when
you pack up a television show," he said.

But the trend is reversing.

Late last yearHBO announcedthat it was moving the Dwayne Johnson comedy
"Ballers" from Miami to California.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              457 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                          September 27, 2017 Wednesday

Rapper Young Dolph shot outside Hollywood hotel

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 296 words



HIGHLIGHT: Earlier this year, shortly after surviving a barrage of bullets
targeting his SUV, the rapper released an album called "Bulletproof."


By MICHAEL BALSAMO  Associated Press

LOS ANGELES  A Memphis rapper was shot and critically wounded outside of a
landmark Hollywood hotel Tuesday.

Investigators are looking into whether Young Dolph was targeted as part of a
hip-hop rivalry. Seven months ago, he survived a hail of gunfire shot at his SUV
in North Carolina, law enforcement officials said.

Tuesdays attack started when the 32-year-old performer,  whose real name is
Adolph Thornton Jr., confronted by three men outside Loews Hollywood hotel, Los
Angeles police Det. Meghan Aguilar said.

The confrontation led to a physical fight, and Young Dolph was thrown to the
ground. One of the men then pulled out a gun and shot him, Aguilar said.

Dolph managed to escape to a nearby shoe store after being shot. He was in
critical condition when rushed to a hospital, where he was undergoing surgery,
Aguilar said.

Police had initially reported that a gold Cadillac Escalade was seen fleeing the
scene. The car was later found abandoned at a nearby gas station. One person had
been detained after the shooting and police were still looking for at least two
other suspects Tuesday night, authorities said.

Young Dolph had escaped injury in February after his SUV was barraged with
bullets in Charlotte, North Carolina. The rapper later said he had custom
bulletproof panels in the SUV.

Dolph released an album in April titled Bulletproof that referenced the shooting
in Charlotte and ranked number 36 on the Billboard 200 albums chart.

Three people were arrested in May in connection with that shooting. One of them,
Samuel Benson  who performs as Blac Youngsta  is a protege of Yo Gotti, a
Memphis rapper with whom Young Dolph has had a longstanding feud.

___

Follow Michael Balsamo on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/MikeBalsamo1 .

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              458 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday

Bruins in theft scandal return;
LiAngelo Ball, 2 teammates return home after Trump intervenes in shoplifting
case in China

BYLINE: Thuc Nhi Nguyen; thnguyen@scng.com, @thucnhi21 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 533 words


Through a swarm of reporters shouting questions and snapping photos, UCLA
basketball players LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill were shepherded into
a black van on the departures level of Los Angeles International Airport on
Tuesday.

After a 12-hour flight from Shanghai, they still were dressed in theirgunmetal
gray UCLA Under Armour sweatsuits with their blue UCLA backpacks. The door slid
closed and the van drove away.

The three freshmen returned to Los Angeles one week after being arrested for
allegedly shoplifting at a high-end shopping center in Hangzhou, China.

ESPN reported that police had surveillance footage of the players committing the
crimes at three stores in the shopping center next to their hotel, including at
a Louis Vuitton store where they allegedly took sunglasses.

Ball, Hill and Riley missed UCLA's season

opener against Georgia Tech in Shanghai while they were confined to the hotel
under police surveillance for six days.

They returned in time for the team's home opener against Central Arkansas at 8
p.m. today at Pauley Pavilion, but their status with the team remains unclear.

"The matter has been resolved to the satisfaction of the Chinese authorities,"
Pac-12 commissioner Larry Scott said. "We are all very pleased that these young
men have been allowed to return home to their families and university."

Scott thanked the local authorities for their professionalism and "the
president, the White House and the U.S. State Department for their efforts
towards resolution" in the statement.

President Donald Trump, who was visiting China last week on a tour of Asia, said
he personally asked Chinese President Xi Jinping to assist on the matter.

"President Xi has been terrific on the subject," Trump told reporters on Air
Force One following the conclusion of his trip Tuesday.

"What they did was unfortunate," Trump added. "You know, you're talking about
very long prison sentences. They do not play games."

The punishment for shoplifting in China is directly related to the value of the
stolen goods.

Although Louis Vuitton and the other stores in the shopping center were of
luxury brands, Chinese law experts did not expect to see severe punishments
levied in this case.

China Sport Insider reported Tuesday that all charges were dropped.

Although they have cleared legal hurdles, they could be subject to additional
punishment by the team andcoach Steve Alford.

The players, Alford and Athletic Director Dan Guerrero will address the media
this morning.

UCLA Chancellor Gene Block said the school is looking into further punishment
for the players.

"I want to be clear that we take seriously any violations of the law," he said.
"We remain one of the world's top academic institutions in large part because of
our values and standards, which we work hard to infuse throughout our campus
community.

"When members of the UCLA family fail to uphold these values, we review these
incidents with fair and thorough processes. In this particular case, both
Athletics and the Office of Student Conduct will review this incident and guide
any action with respect to the involved students. Such proceedings are
confidential, which limits the specific information that can be shared."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              459 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                          November 15, 2017 Wednesday

Bruins in theft scandal return;
LiAngelo Ball, 2 teammates return home after Trump intervenes in shoplifting
case in China

BYLINE: Thuc Nhi Nguyen; thnguyen@scng.com, @thucnhi21 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words


Through a swarm of reporters shouting questions and snapping photos, UCLA
basketball players LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill were shepherded into
a black van on the departures level of Los Angeles International Airport on
Tuesday.

After a 12-hour flight from Shanghai, they were still dressed in theirgunmetal
gray UCLA Under Armour sweatsuits with their blue UCLA backpacks. The door slid
closed and the van drove away.

The three freshmen returned to Los Angeles one week after being arrested for
allegedly shoplifting at a high-end shopping center in Hangzhou, China.

ESPN reported that police had surveillance footage of the players committing the
crimes at three stores in the shopping center next to their hotel, including at
a Louis Vuitton store where they allegedly took sunglasses.

Ball, Hill and Riley missed UCLA's season

opener against Georgia Tech in Shanghai while they were confined to the hotel
under police surveillance for six days.

They returned in time for the team's home opener against Central Arkansas at 8
p.m. today at Pauley Pavilion, but their status with the team remains unclear.

"The matter has been resolved to the satisfaction of the Chinese authorities,"
Pac-12 commissioner Larry Scott said. "We are all very pleased that these young
men have been allowed to return home to their families and university."

Scott thanked the local authorities for their professionalism and "the
president, the White House and the U.S. State Department for their efforts
towards resolution" in the statement.

President Donald Trump, who was visiting China last week on a tour of Asia, said
he personally asked Chinese President Xi Jinping to assist on the matter.

"President Xi has been terrific on the subject," Trump told reporters on Air
Force One following the conclusion of his trip Tuesday.

"What they did was unfortunate," Trump added. "You know, you're talking about
very long prison sentences. They do not play games."

The punishment for shoplifting in China is directly related to the value of the
stolen goods.

Although Louis Vuitton and the other stores in the shopping center were of
luxury brands, Chinese law experts did not expect to see severe punishments
levied in this case.

China Sport Insider reported Tuesday that all charges were dropped.

Although they have cleared legal hurdles, they could be subject to additional
punishment by the team andcoach Steve Alford.

The players, Alford and Athletic Director Dan Guerrero will address the media
this morning.

UCLA Chancellor Gene Block said the school is looking into further punishment
for the players.

"I want to be clear that we take seriously any violations of the law," he said.
"We remain one of the world's top academic institutions in large part because of
our values and standards, which we work hard to infuse throughout our campus
community.

"When members of the UCLA family fail to uphold these values, we review these
incidents with fair and thorough processes. In this particular case, both
Athletics and the Office of Student Conduct will review this incident and guide
any action with respect to the involved students. Such proceedings are
confidential, which limits the specific information that can be shared."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              460 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Washington: Jamaican National Indicted in Federal Drug Case for Allegedly
Supplying Flight Attendant with nearly 60 Pounds of Cocaine

LENGTH: 472  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US Department of Justice has issued the following news release:



 A federal grand jury has named a Jamaican man in an indictment that accuses him
of supplying a Jet Blue flight attendant with nearly 60 pounds of cocaine that
she attempted to smuggle on to a plane at Los Angeles International Airport.



           Gaston Brown, 39, of Jamaica, was charged yesterday with one count of
conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute cocaine, and one count of
possession with intent to distribute cocaine.

           Brown is currently serving a one-year-and-one-day federal prison
sentence after being convicted in the Southern District of Florida of illegal
re-entry after deportation. A federal judge yesterday issued a writ directing
that Brown be brought to Los Angeles for an arraignment, which will likely be in
mid-February.

           Brown allegedly supplied the narcotics to Marsha Gay Reynolds, a
former JetBlue flight attendant, who pleaded guilty last month to federal drug
charges and admitted she attempted to bring the narcotics through a security
checkpoint at LAX by using her "known crewmember" credentials.

           "This case demonstrates law enforcement's commitment to disrupting
dangerous drug trafficking networks," said United States Attorney Eileen M.
Decker. "After making the large seizure of narcotics at LAX, investigators
continued to look into this matter, which resulted in the indictment of a
defendant who was trafficking a significant amount of cocaine."

           An indictment contains allegations that a defendant has committed a
crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty
in court.

           If Brown is convicted of the drug trafficking charges, he would face
a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in federal prison and a maximum
possible sentence of life.

           This investigation is being conducted by the Los Angeles
International Airport Criminal Enterprise Task Force (LAACETF), an inter-agency
task force based at LAX. The Task Force, which includes representatives of the
FBI, the DEA, United States Customs and Border Protection, the Transportation
Security Administration, the Los Angeles International Airport Police
Department, the Los Angeles Police Department, and the Los Angeles Sheriff's
Department. The LAACETF provides a coordinated law enforcement effort to target
airport/airline internal criminal enterprises that use the aviation system to
transport large amounts of illicit drugs throughout the United States and
various international destinations.

           This matter is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney
Reema M. El-Amamy of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              461 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            October 23, 2017 Monday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
L.A. drafts pot rules with focus on disadvantaged;
Regulations reflect what many see as uneven effects of the drug war

BYLINE: Emily Alpert Reyes

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 848 words


The war on drugs has taken a disproportionate toll on people who are poor, black
or Latino, community activists have long lamented.

Now that marijuana is on the brink of legalization in California, Los Angeles
leaders want to make sure that disadvantaged people can cash in.

L.A. has been crafting regulations to permit a wide range of marijuana
businesses as the state prepares to legalize the sale of recreational pot. Under
a proposal drafted by outside consultants and released last week, the city would
provide extra help to some people seeking to run cannabis businesses, in an
attempt to address the uneven effects of the drug war.

"For so long, people that were black, people that were Latino, we have paid the
price for this business," City Council President Herb Wesson, who is African
American, said at a recent community forum in Watts. "And as we move this into
the legal realm, it is important to us that we have a piece of the action."

Local governments cannot give preferential treatment based on race or ethnicity
under California law, a fact that Wesson quickly acknowledged at the Watts
forum.

Instead, the L.A. program would benefit poor people who have been convicted of a
marijuana crime in California, poor people whose immediate family members have
been convicted, people with low incomes who live or have lived in neighborhoods
that were heavily affected by marijuana arrests, and companies that agree to
help disadvantaged applicants.

"This is not about race," said Donnie Anderson, cofounder of the California
Minority Alliance, which advocates for the inclusion of people of color in the
marijuana industry. "This is about communities that were hurt by the failed war
on drugs."

Without such a program, "you'd just have corporate people getting into the
industry," Anderson said. "Where's the justice in that?"

Under the proposed "social equity" program, the city would provide different
levels of assistance to the four categories of eligible applicants, with the
maximum assistance going to poor people convicted of marijuana crimes. However,
the city could still deny marijuana licenses to people convicted of violent or
serious crimes as outlined in state law.

People in the program could get help applying for city licenses, training
employees and finding vacant city properties -- those that are not suitable for
affordable housing -- to rent for free or at reduced rates. The city would also
help people expunge old convictions for marijuana crimes. And L.A. would also
waive or defer fees and provide start-up loans at low rates.

In addition, cannabis businesses run by wealthier applicants could get tax
rebates if they help disadvantaged entrepreneurs by providing them floor space,
mentoring or other assistance.

Because L.A. is allowing marijuana businesses only in limited zones,
entrepreneurs have been eager to get city approval quickly, before the available
space is snapped up by other businesses. Existing pot shops that have been
operating in line with an earlier set of city rules are first in line for
licenses. After that, the city will start handing out licenses to other
applicants.

Under the proposal, for every general applicant who gets a license, the city
would give out one license to someone participating in the "social equity"
program -- a rule meant to ensure "equitable participation" in the industry,
according to the proposal.

The recommended rules, which were drafted by the consulting firm Amec Foster
Wheeler with the help of city staff, are expected to be vetted by a council
committee this month.

The firm also analyzed geographic and racial disparities in marijuana arrests in
Los Angeles and identified which neighborhoods had been disproportionately
affected.

In addition to assisting disadvantaged applicants, the proposed rules would also
require new cannabis businesses to ensure that at least half of their workforce
are people with low incomes, residents living in the heavily affected
neighborhoods, or those who have been convicted of a marijuana crime and their
family members.

The proposed rules would also set aside 20% of city revenue from taxing
marijuana businesses to help pay for community beautification, drug treatment
and other services for communities heavily affected by marijuana arrests. The
consultants also recommended that the city streamline the approval process for
all marijuana businesses to make it less time-consuming and costly.

Marijuana industry groups such as the United Cannabis Business Assn., which have
closely tracked the proposed regulations, were still reviewing the newly
released proposal Friday but applauded the idea. Adam Spiker, executive director
of the Southern California Coalition, said the consultants had "spent so much
time trying to get this right."

"This is about who was most affected by the war on drugs, and what can we do, as
the city of Los Angeles, to make that right?" Spiker said, quickly adding, "Or
try to make that right. People going to prison, their kids going to foster care
-- there's no way to right those wrongs."

--

emily.alpert@latimes.com

Twitter: @LATimesEmily

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DONNIE ANDERSON runs a nonprofit that advocates for the
inclusion of people of color in the pot industry.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Luis Sinco Los
Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              462 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                          September 27, 2017 Wednesday

Rapper Young Dolph shot outside of Hollywood hotel

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 333 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Tennessee rapper was shot and critically wounded outside of a
landmark Hollywood hotel Tuesday, and investigators are looking into whether he
was targeted as part of a hip-hop rivalry more than six months after surviving a
hail of gunfire shot at his SUV in North Carolina, law enforcement officials
said.


By MICHAEL BALSAMO | Associated Press

LOS ANGELES   A Tennessee rapper was shot and critically wounded outside of a
landmark Hollywood hotel Tuesday, and investigators are looking into whether he
was targeted as part of a hip-hop rivalry more than six months after surviving a
hail of gunfire shot at his SUV in North Carolina, law enforcement officials
said.

The Memphis rapper, known as Young Dolph, 32, was shot in an altercation with
three men outside Loews Hollywood hotel, near the intersection of Hollywood
Boulevard and Highland Avenue, Los Angeles police Det. Meghan Aguilar said.

Young Dolph, whose real name is Adolph Thornton Jr., was confronted by the men
outside, leading to a physical fight, Aguilar said. One of the men pulled out a
gun and shot Young Dolph, who was left critically injured, according to Aguilar.

Detectives are investigating whether the shooting is connected to a rivalry with
another hip-hop artist, a law enforcement official said.

The official spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity in order to
discuss an ongoing investigation.

Police had initially reported that a gold Cadillac Escalade was seen fleeing the
scene, but the car was later found abandoned at a nearby gas station. One person
had been detained after the shooting and police were still looking for at least
two other suspects Tuesday night, authorities said.

Young Dolph had escaped injury in February after his SUV was barraged with
bullets in Charlotte, North Carolina. Investigators later recovered more than
100 shell casings that had been fired from various guns at several homes and
vehicles, including Young Dolphs SUV. The rapper later said he had custom
bulletproof panels in the SUV.

Dolph released an album in April titled, Bulletproof that referenced the
shooting in Charlotte and ranked number 36 on the Billboard 200 albums chart.

Three people were arrested in May in connection with that shooting.

___

Follow Michael Balsamo on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/MikeBalsamo1 .

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              463 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            April 20, 2017 Thursday

Hammer-knife attack sends woman to hospital, man to jail

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 216 words


A man alleged to have attacked his girlfriend with a hammer and knife Tuesday
night in Chatsworth was taken into custody in connection with the crime,
authorities said.

Angel Rios, 20, was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder, said Officer Irma
Mota of the Los Angeles Police Department's Media Relation Section. She did not
have a residence listed for Rios.

Police were summoned at 8:17 p.m. to the 7400 block of Canoga Avenue, in Canoga
Park, where they found the woman in a vehicle, police said.

The woman was taken to a hospital, where she underwent surgery and was in stable
condition.

Mota said the incident began in the area of De Soto Avenue and Nordhoff Street
in Chatsworth around 5:50 p.m. when Rios and the victim got into an argument.
The dispute turned physical when Rios allegedly hit his girlfriend with a hammer
and then stabbed her with a knife, Mota said.

Rios then fled the location, Mota said. The victim was transported by her
boyfriend's mother to another location where a 9-1-1 call was made.

Around 9 p.m., authorities found Rios on Sunnybrae Avenue in Chatsworth and
arrested him.

He is currently being held in lieu of $1 million bail at the Van Nuys Jail,
according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department booking website.

City News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              464 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           October 12, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Activists score legislative win on juvenile justice overhaul;
Governor signs nine bills backed by groups aiming to divert kids from a path to
prison.

BYLINE: Jazmine Ulloa

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; bad desk code; Local Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE:  SACRAMENTO


Gov. Jerry Brown on Wednesday signed nine bills to aid young people facing
charges and serving time, a victory for a statewide coalition of criminal
justice groups that brought together celebrities and former youth offenders in a
push to divert children from a path to prison.

The new laws will increase parole opportunities and ease punishment for people
who committed crimes as children or teens. They will allow courts to seal
certain juvenile records and limit the administrative fees that counties charge
families with children in juvenile detention.

Five of the bills were part of a package of proposals introduced at the
beginning of the year by state Sens. Holly Mitchell (D-Los Angeles) and Ricardo
Lara (D-Bell Gardens). The legislation, they said, was based on studies showing
that adolescent brains have not fully matured and research that found court
practices and fines disproportionately affect low-income and black and Latino
children.

"Sadly, too many poor kids and kids of color today are more likely to end up as
victims of the juvenile justice system," Mitchell said in a statement. "If one
believes that our children will be tomorrow's leaders then we must look through
a child-development lens."

Legislation to alter California's approach to juvenile justice brought hip-hop
artist Common to the state Capitol to lobby lawmakers and publicize the cause
with a free concert. At committee hearings and Sacramento rallies, former youth
offenders shared their stories of clashes with police and incarceration.

Among supporters of the juvenile justice legislation was media commentator Van
Jones. A nonprofit co-founded by Jones, #cut50, is working to revamp criminal
justice policies and sponsored some of the bills, including a measure that will
allow offenders who committed a crime before the age of 23 to apply for the
youth offender parole process.

Jessica Jackson, national director and co-founder of #cut50, said she and Jones
plan to embark on "a listening tour" in the 10 counties in California that have
seen the largest upticks in crime, including Los Angeles, Alameda and San
Bernardino.

Their hope is to gather with local elected officials, law enforcement and
business leaders to discuss what their communities need to implement the
legislation and to ensure offenders are not revolving through jail or prison
doors.

"This is a historic victory that brings us one step closer to justice for
youth," Jackson said of the legislation's approval.

Advocates made some early gains. One bill signed by Brown in July requires
defendants to pay for their court-appointed lawyers only if they have been
convicted of a crime.

Among the most significant bills signed Wednesday is one that limits cities and
counties from collecting fees from families with children under 21 in juvenile
detention.

Under its provisions, parents and legal guardians will no longer be liable for
the costs of transporting minors to juvenile justice facilities or for their
food, shelter, drug tests or other care while there.

Those fees vary widely by county, and momentum to revamp the payment systems had
been building as the burdens on families steadily continued to climb. Juvenile
hall costs range from $3.18 to $49 a day, while daily charges for electronic
monitoring are between $3.50 and $30.

At least four counties -- Los Angeles, Alameda, Santa Clara and Contra Costa --
have repealed or suspended their collection of fees, according to a study
released in March by the Policy Advocacy Clinic at UC Berkeley Law School.

That analysis found that many counties engage in fee practices that violate
state and federal laws, while some make little revenue or even lose money due to
the work it takes to obtain payments from parents and guardians.

Among vocal critics of the court fees is California Supreme Court Chief Justice
Tani Cantil-Sakauye. More than 60% of the $1.7 billion generated by the payments
goes to fund court programs and services at the state and local levels, she said
last year in her judiciary address to the Legislature.

"We have a system of fines and fees that has morphed from a system of
accountability to a system that raises revenue for essential government
services," she said.

Among the former youth offenders to applaud the changes was Joel Aguilar, who
told lawmakers at a hearing that he was sentenced to life without parole at 17
for his involvement in a robbery and a murder. After serving 25 years in prison,
he is now a college student studying philosophy.

"My punishment told me that I was unworthy of redemption," he said in a
statement. "But as I began to meet people who were good, talented, sensitive and
generous, I began to believe that I could do good in the world."

--

jazmine.ulloa@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEW LAWS will ease punishments for youth offenders, allow courts
to seal certain juvenile records and limit the fees charged to families of
detained minors. Above, girls sit in their shared dorm space at the Camp Kenyon
Scudder juvenile detention facility in Santa Clarita.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Bethany
Mollenkof Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              465 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             June 20, 2017 Tuesday

LAPD chief backing 'sanctuary state' bill;
Beck, Eric Holder, State Sen. Kevin De Le[#xfffd]n endorse SB 54, decrying the
'reckless Trump administration'

BYLINE: Antonie Boessenkool; aboessenkool@scng.com, @antoniewrites

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words

ABSTRACT

SB54

FULL TEXT

Former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck
and State Sen. Kevin de Le[#xfffd]n voiced their support Monday in downtown Los
Angeles for de Le[#xfffd]n's bill that would limit local and state law
enforcement assistance with federal immigration action in California.

Senate Bill 54, named theCalifornia Values Act,was approved by the state Senate
in April and is still moving through the state Assembly.

De Le[#xfffd]n began by thanking Holder, Beck and others for supporting the
bill, before decrying the "reckless Trump administration" for its efforts to
withhold federal dollars from cities that say they won't cooperate with federal
immigration enforcement.

"Under Constitutional threats from a reckless Trump administration, Senate Bill
54 protects our local law enforcement

and the resources that they need to keep our communities safe," de Le[#xfffd]n
said at the news conference held in the Ronald Reagan State Building in downtown
Los Angeles.

De Le[#xfffd]n noted a recent decision by a federal judge in San Francisco who
blocked President Donald Trump's order to withhold federal funding from
so-called "sanctuary cities" that don't cooperate with federal immigration
officials. But, he said, local police still need protection against "federal
overreach."

"Because we stood up to the Trump administration threat with an aggressive
defense of our immigrant communities, Attorney General [Jeff] Sessions has had
to narrow his definition of a sanctuary city," de Le[#xfffd]n said. "His plan to
punish so-called 'sanctuary cities' by withholding federal grant dollars has
been rejected by the court of law. Still, our local law enforcement officers are
under threat of being commandeered to the president's deportation forces. Senate
Bill 54 will protect local police against federal overreach."

De Le[#xfffd]n said that since the start of the year, reports of sexual assault
and domestic violence have decreased because those who might report such crimes
fear deportation if they're undocumented.

"Under Senate Bill 54, local police officers will maintain the trust of
immigrant communities that has been carefully nurtured, the trust that is so
important to our safety."

De Le[#xfffd]n also said his bill requires state corrections officials to notify
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 60 days before they release anyone with
a violent felony conviction.

"Senate Bill 54 is not about safeguarding criminals," de Le[#xfffd]n said. "It
would assure that dangerous criminals serve their full sentence, in California."

Holder, who state Senate lawmakers have hired as outside counsel, said de
Le[#xfffd]n's bill would ensure undocumented immigrants report crimes.

"California is leading," Holder said. "California is doing the right thing. This
is something that needs to be done nationwide.

"As the former attorney general of these United States, I know from experience
immigrants, even when they are victims of crime or witnesses to criminal acts,
often fear interacting with local law enforcement officers when those officers
also engage in federal immigration enforcement," Holder added. "That means more
crime. It means more victims, and it means not fewer.

"We have concluded that it is constitutional," Holder said. "Under the United
States Constitution, states have the power over the health and safety of their
residents and the allocation of state resources. Despite statements from the
Trump administration suggesting that laws similar to the California Values Act
are somehow unconstitutional, the act is a core exercise of California's
authority."

Beck said it's crucial to ensure that witnesses to crimes aren't deterred from
sharing information with police because they fear deportation.

"We do not want to lose trust, because we believe trust is the most important
thing in policing," Beck said. "The ability to get witnesses to come forward,
the ability to get victims to come forward ... can be severely detrimented by
civil enforcement of immigration by local authorities.

"This is not a soft-on-crime bill," he added. "We depend on our communities,
particularly our immigrant communities, to cooperate with us, not only to keep
them safe, but to keep all of you safe."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              466 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

INDICTMENT TARGETS 44 MS-13 MEMBERS

SECTION: Pg. B5

LENGTH: 421 words


By Alicia A. Caldwell

Associated Press

LOS ANGELES - Hundreds of federal and local law enforcement fanned out across
Los Angeles in pre-dawn sweeps, serving arrest and search warrants as part of a
three-year investigation into the ultra-violent street gang MS-13.

Federal prosecutors unsealed a sweeping indictment Wednesday morning charging
dozens of members and leaders of the brutal street gang with a variety of
crimes, including murder.

Acting U.S. Attorney Sandra Brown said the 127-page anti-racketeering indictment
targets 44 members and associates of the gang, including the one-time leader of
a Los Angeles faction of MS-13. Three people accused of murder could face the
death penalty, she said.

Twenty-one people named in the indictment were arrested in pre-dawn raids across
Los Angeles and Brown said warrants were served at more than 50 locations. Jail
officials around the region also conducted cell searches, as some of those
indicted were already in custody on unrelated charges. About a dozen of those
arrested were so-called "shot callers" for the gang. At least three people were
still at large Wednesday.

Brown said MS-13 is responsible for murders of rival gang members, drug and
human trafficking, prostitution and illegal alcohol sales, among other crimes.
She described the racketeering case as one of the largest single cases targeting
MS-13, a gang that started in Los Angeles, but has expanded to nearly every
state and El Salvador. The gang is blamed for horrific violence that has sent
Salvadoran immigrants fleeing that country for the United States.

The raids and the indictment are part of a multi-agency case led by the FBI that
started in 2014. More than half of those arrested and charged in the case are in
the country illegally, Fike said. It was unclear how long they had been in the
U.S. or what countries they are from.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck and others said the suspects' immigration
status was of little consequence, given the nature of the criminal charges.

The chief said this latest indictment and raid marks the seventh time that
local, state and federal authorities have targeted MS-13 and its leadership.
That law enforcement pressure, he said, has led to a steady decline in the
gang's influence in the Los Angeles area.

In 2012 and 2014, his department ranked the group as the No. 1 street gang in
the area, but the group has since dropped to seventh, Beck said.

There are currently about 800 known MS-13 members in the city, down from a peak
of about 1,200 in recent years.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2017 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              467 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 25, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

NEIGHBORHOOD SPOTLIGHT: FLORENCE;
A constant for the working class;
Former factory town is still an accessible rung on the American dream ladder.

BYLINE: Scott Garner

SECTION: HOT PROPERTY; Business Desk; Part J; Part J; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 754 words


As the city of Los Angeles grew southward in the early 20th century, residential
developers were not the only ones who found the flatlands south of downtown an
attractive location.

Cheap land, with easy access to the tangle of rail lines that fanned out from
L.A. to crisscross the Western U.S., made the southeast corner of the city a
prime spot for industrial concerns looking to expand.

South Central Avenue in particular became a hotbed of manufacturing and
warehousing, especially after Goodyear Rubber Co. opened a massive tire factory
between Gage and Florence avenues in 1919.

The 74-acre plant, which was the first of its kind on the West Coast, was a
self-sufficient complex that at its peak employed 2,500 workers who produced up
to 15,000 tires a day. There was even a hangar for the Goodyear blimp on the
grounds.

The factory supplied the entire Western U.S. and helped fuel the rise of
automobile manufacturing in Los Angeles County, which at one time was second
only to Detroit in the number of cars that rolled off assembly lines from Van
Nuys to Vernon.

With the boom in tire and automotive jobs came the need for housing for the
workers who toiled on the factory floors.

Goodyear itself even got into the act of providing affordable housing for its
workers, commissioning Sumner Hunt, architect of the Bradbury Building and other
prominent L.A. landmarks, to design a neighborhood on 80 acres along 59th Place,
just a few blocks from the plant.

Dubbed Goodyear Gardens, the neighborhood as designed consisted of small homes
-- each with its own garden and garage -- in a variety of styles. Although the
Gardens was never fully built out, the template proved popular and was
replicated by other developers that purchased Goodyear's surplus surrounding
land to build worker housing.

The neighborhood, which came to be known as Florence, continued to function as a
factory town within the city for the next several decades, until the Goodyear
plant closed for good in 1979.

The loss of the relatively high-paying union jobs that the plant had provided
for generations of Angelenos led to local economic dislocation that still
lingers to the present.

--

Neighborhood highlights

Homes within reach: Florence's housing stock remains relatively affordable,
especially for working-class residents who work in the area's warehouses or
furniture outlets.

Quick commute: With its proximity to downtown, USC and the gateway cities,
Florence is a relatively easy commute to many of South L.A.'s employment
centers.

A gateway neighborhood: Like many other working-class neighborhoods in L.A.,
Florence is an accessible rung on the ladder to the American dream for
immigrants from across Latin America.

--

Neighborhood challenge

Public safety: Florence residents suffer from a high rate of violent crime, with
the neighborhood ranked as the 11th-most violent in the city by incidents per
10,000 people.

--

Expert insight

"This neighborhood is one of the densest in all of Los Angeles, which affects
the types of construction going up," said Carlos Rodriguez, who has been selling
homes in the Florence community for 12 years.

"These are small homes built on small lots; you won't find much over 2,000
square feet."

He said that although the neighborhood has experienced its fair share of crime,
such factors as central location and cheap housing have contributed to the
consistent -- albeit slow -- growth over the last decade.

"The gentrification growing out of downtown hasn't really affected Florence yet,
so as of now, a strong sense of community exists here," Rodriguez said.

--

Market snapshot

In the 90001 ZIP Code, based on 12 sales, the median sales price for
single-family homes in September was $328,000, up 29.7% year over year,
according to CoreLogic.

--

Report card

There are 11 public schools within the Florence boundaries. Highlights include
Florence Avenue Elementary, which scored 824 in the 2013 Academic Performance
Index, and Ninety-Second Street Elementary, which scored 809.

Lillian Street Elementary and Russell Elementary scored 767 and 759,
respectively. Parmelee Avenue Elementary scored 747.

--

hotproperty@latimes.com

Times staff writer Jack Flemming contributed to this report.

--

FLORENCE

Population: 51,293

Diversity:

Asian: 0%

Black: 19%

Hispanic: 80%

White: 1%

Other: 1%

Rent vs. own: 69% / 31%

Median income: $31,196

Median age: 27

Education:

Less than high school: 53%

High school graduate: 27%

Some college: 15%

Bachelor's degree: 5%

Master's or higher: 1%

Drive times (without traffic) :

To LAX: 22 minutes

To Staples Center: 16 minutes

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: MAP: Florence  CREDIT:Ally Levine PHOTO: THE WORK OF ARTIST
Mario Cespedes is showcased on a bus shelter in Florence, a community that has
eluded gentrification.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Genaro Molina Los Angeles Times PHOTO: THE
DENSELY POPULATED area is not far from downtown and the gateway cities and is a
relatively easy commute to many of South L.A.'s employment centers.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Luis Sinco Los Angeles Times PHOTO: A FLORENCE Avenue Elementary
pupil ends her school day.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Bob Chamberlin Los Angeles Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Infobox; Infographic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              468 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                          September 20, 2017 Wednesday

86-year-old international jewel thief out of jail again

BYLINE: Staff and news service reports

LENGTH: 588 words



HIGHLIGHT: An 86-year-old jewel thief whose decades of exploits include crimes
at home and abroad -- including the 2013 theft of a diamond ring from a Palm
Desert store -- is out of custody again following two recent brushes with the
law in Georgia.


PALM DESERT  An 86-year-old jewel thief whose decades of exploits include crimes
at home and abroad  including the 2013 theft of a diamond ring from a Palm
Desert store  is out of custody again following two recent brushes with the law
in Georgia.

Doris Payne is accused of stealing $86.22 worth of stolen items from a Walmart
in Chamblee, Georgia, but was released last Friday after a judge revoked her
probation stemming from a necklace theft from earlier this year. Payne was
wearing an ankle monitoring bracelet when she was arrested at the Walmart.

That arrest came about six months after she tried to steal a necklace valued at
nearly $2,000 from the Von Maur jewelry store at the Perimeter Mall in Dunwoody.
Payne was sentenced in Dekalb County Superior Court to three years probation in
addition to house arrest, and was banned from malls in the Atlanta area for that
crime.

Paynes six-decade criminal career, which was detailed in a 2013 documentary, The
Life and Crimes of Doris Payne, includes a conviction for swiping a 3.5-carat,
$22,500 ring from El Paseo Jewelers in Palm Desert.

In a 2015 interview with the Register, Payne said, I have no remorse. Why? I
aint killed nobody, Payne said. I never took anything I regretted. I had a good
look at it and decided this is what I want. And I kept it.

She had been on probation for felony theft in a Los Angeles case when the crime
in Palm Desert occurred on Oct. 21, 2013. The ring she stole was recovered at a
second-hand jewelry dealer in Palm Desert the following month.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area
and beyond.

Riverside County sheriffs detectives identified Payne in the El Paseo case using
images captured a few days before at a Saks Fifth Avenue store in Palm Desert,
where a security guard recognized her from a 2010 theft arrest.

In April 2014, Payne pleaded guilty to one count each of burglary and grand
theft and was sentenced to four years in custody and was to serve half of the
time in jail and the other half under supervision. However, Payne met the
criteria to be fed-kicked  released because of jail overcrowding  and was let
out of a Riverside County jail on July 8, 2014, and turned over to the Los
Angeles County Sheriffs Department.

That stint came on the heels of arrests in San Diego in 2011 and in Costa Mesa
in 2010, when she tried to lift a $1,300 Burberry coat.

She last appeared in a Riverside County courtroom in October 2014 for violating
the terms of her probation, with her lawyer claiming Payne did not intentionally
fail to report to a probation officer, but was confused between the terms of her
two probations.

She was also scheduled for an Indio court hearing in August 2015 for again
violating her probation but failed to appear, leading a judge to issue a warrant
for her arrest.

Payne has also carried out thefts in San Diego, Greece, France, Britain and
Switzerland. Her biggest haul came in the 1970s when, in Monte Carlo, she says
she lifted a 10-carat diamond ring valued at $545,000.

I dont dictate what happens when I walk in the store. The people in charge
dictate what happens with me when I walk in the store, she told The Associated
Press in an interview. I dont tell a person in the store I want to see something
that costs $10,000. They make those decisions based on how I present myself and
how I look.

City News Service contributed to this report.

Reading this on your phone? Stay up to date with our free mobile app. Get it
from the Apple app store  or the Google Play store.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              469 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday

A city stands up for immigrants

BYLINE: Emily Alpert Reyes Los Angeles Times

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 531 words


Immigrant advocates had long pushed Los Angeles to legalize street vending,
arguing that sidewalk sellers who hawk ice cream, hotdogs wrapped in bacon, or
other food and goods should not face criminal charges that could put them at
risk of being deported.

But the idea languished at city hall as politicians sparred over where and how
sidewalk vending should be allowed. Activists grew frustrated as the years
passed with hearing after hearing - yet no clear plan for legalizing and
regulating their trade.

Then Donald Trump was elected president, and local officials decided to hustle.
Fearing a coming crackdown on immigrants, Los Angeles city council members Joe
Buscaino and Curren Price vowed to stop punishing vending as a crime and begin
setting up a regulated system. The council voted to draft a law that would
decriminalize sidewalk vending.

Councilman Jose Huizar told reporters it was "a sign to this Trump
administration that we will not abide by his fear, his vilification, his
scapegoating of immigrants."

Instead, Los Angeles is saying, "You do not have to work in the shadows," Huizar
said.

City staffers say it could take months, however, for Los Angeles to work out all
of the details and begin handing out permits to vendors. In the meantime,
vendors who ply their trade on city sidewalks could still be cited and fined for
violating the municipal code, but they would not face criminal convictions.

Such charges could jeopardize immigrants in the country illegally. Trump has
signed an order that emphasized deporting not only people convicted of crimes
but also people who were charged with crimes not yet adjudicated, and even those
who have not been charged but are believed to have committed "acts that
constitute a chargeable criminal offence."

Those "disturbing developments" helped spur the city to take action, said Mike
Dennis, who sits on the steering committee of the L.A. Street Vendor Campaign.
"It took something horrible at the national level for them to see the urgency
that we've been seeing for a long time."

Business groups, including many that had raised concerns about vending, also
said they supported decriminalization.

Sidewalk vendors and their advocates have argued that some of the proposed rules
are too restrictive. The L.A. Street Vendor Campaign contends that the city
should not allow neighbourhoods to totally prohibit sidewalk vending, nor
require vendors to get permission from neighbouring shops to do business
outside.

The Coalition to Save Small Business, which has raised concerns about how
sidewalk vending can affect bricks-and-mortar businesses, has insisted that
communities should be able to choose "more, less or no sidewalk vending" if they
desire.

Eliminating criminal charges for sidewalk vending is one of a string of
proposals that Los Angeles politicians have backed to counter actions of the
Trump administration, including opposing the proposed Environmental Protection
Agency chief and approving the hiring of an immigrant advocate at city hall.

If Los Angeles wants to stand up for immigrants, "we can't simply talk about
opposing Trump's policies or nominees," Buscaino said. "We need to take serious
actions like this one."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              470 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Chicago Woman Allegedly Attempted to Smuggle Heroin and Marijuana
through LAX after Grammy Weekend in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 686  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: US Department of Justice has issued the following news release:



 A Chicago woman is facing a federal drug trafficking charge for allegedly
trying to smuggle at least a kilogram of heroin and four kilograms of marijuana
on a plane leaving Los Angeles International Airport.



           Beige White, 34, was arrested Wednesday at LAX by special agents with
the Drug Enforcement Administration. White made her initial court appearance
yesterday afternoon, at which time she was ordered held without bond and was
directed to appear for an arraignment on March 24, 2017.

           A criminal complaint filed Wednesday in United States District Court
specifically alleges that White attempted to smuggle approximately 2.28 pounds
of heroin and 9 pounds of marijuana through a security checkpoint at LAX on
Monday.

           The narcotics were discovered in White's luggage after she had
checked in for a Southwest Airlines flight to Chicago. After seeing something
suspicious in one of the bags during an image scan, the Transportation Security
Administration inspected the bag and discovered a clear plastic bag containing a
substance later determined to be heroin, as well as multiple sealed plastic bags
containing marijuana. Another piece of checked luggage in White's name also
allegedly contained marijuana.

           Los Angeles Airport Police responded to the scene, located White on
her Southwest flight, and escorted her off the airplane. During a subsequent
interview, White admitted to personnel with the Los Angeles Airport Police and
the DEA that the bags containing the heroin and marijuana were hers, and that
she and a friend had traveled from Chicago to attend events related to the
Grammy Awards. According to White's statement recounted in the affidavit in
support of the complaint, her friend had purchased her airline ticket and
offered to pay White $1,500 if she agreed to transport marijuana back to Chicago
on her return flight. During the interview, White denied knowledge of the heroin
that was in the same checked luggage as some of the marijuana, according to the
affidavit.

           Following the interview on Monday, White was released pending further
federal investigation. Federal prosecutors filed the criminal complaint on
Wednesday, and White was taken into custody before she boarded another flight to
return home.

           "The Department of Justice protects our nation's critical
infrastructure, of which airports and airlines are an important part," said
United States Attorney Eileen M. Decker. "Air travelers should not have to worry
about drug smugglers attempting to use planes as vehicles to commit crimes."

           The complaint charges White with possession with the intent to
distribute a controlled substance. If she were to be convicted of that charge,
she would face a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in federal prison.

           A criminal complaint contains allegations that a defendant has
committed a crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless
proven guilty in court.

           The DEA Los Angeles International Airport Narcotics Task Force, an
inter-agency task force based at LAX, is conducting this investigation. The Task
Force is charged with providing a coordinated law enforcement effort to target
criminal enterprises that use the aviation system to transport large amounts of
illicit drugs and drug proceeds throughout the United States.

           In addition to the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Task Force is
made up of representatives from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Los
Angeles Airport Police, the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department. The Task Force also works closely with the United
States Customs and Border Protection and the Transportation Security
Administration.

           The case against White is being prosecuted by Assistant United States
Attorney Reema M. El-Amamy of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              471 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              May 2, 2017 Tuesday

Pair pleads not guilty in Burbank donut shop robbery

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

ABSTRACT

A Los Angeles man and women recently charged in connection with the armed
robbery of Kim's Donuts & Coffee in Burbank and other locations in Glendale and
Los Angeles pled not guilty, authorities said. Timothy Hayes, 20, and Unique
Rivers, 20, were charged with one count of attempted murder by the Los Angeles
County District Attorney's office on April 27 as well as five counts of robbery
and six counts of burglary but both pled not guilty on Friday in Burbank, said
Ricardo Santiago, spokesman for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's
Office.

FULL TEXT

A Los Angeles man and woman recently charged in connection with the armed
robbery of Kim's Donuts & Coffee in Burbank and other locations in Glendale and
Los Angeles have pled not guilty, authorities said.

Timothy Hayes, 20, and Unique Rivers, 20, were charged with one count of
attempted murder by the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office Thursday.
They also were charged with five counts of robbery and six counts of burglary.
Both pled not guilty on Friday in Burbank, said Ricardo Santiago, spokesman for
the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office.

They are due back in court on May 19 for a preliminary hearing setting in
Burbank, Santiago said.

Both are being held in lieu of $1.3 million bail with Hayes at North County
Correctional Facility in Castaic and Rivers at Century Regional Detention
Facility in Lynwood.

The Burbank donut shop robbery occurred around 5:25 a.m. March 22 at 403 N.
Victory Boulevard, police said.

The owner of the donut shop said two suspects wore hooded sweatshirts and masks
entered the store while one was armed with a handgun, officials said.

A 45-year-old man, the shop owner, said one of the suspects removed property
from his pockets before he managed to grab the handgun and became involved in a
struggle with both suspects, police said.

During the struggle, officials added, one of the suspects pointed the handgun
toward the owner's chest and pulled the trigger but the gun did not fire.

After the owner sustained minor injuries from the struggle, Burbank police
recovered evidence at the scene left behind by the suspects.

The evidence led to the alleged gunman's identity - Hayes. And a vehicle used in
the crime was linked to Rivers.

Burbank police worked with the investigators from Glendale and Los Angeles
Police Departments and learned they were connected to other armed robberies and
a commercial burglary.

One of the robberies occurred in Glendale minutes before the Burbank donut shop
robbery, police added.

Hayes and Rivers were arrested around 6:50 p.m. April 26 at a home in the 4500
block of Ascot Avenue, in Los Angeles, after arrest and search warrants were
served by the Burbank Police Department Special Weapons and Tactics Team with
the Glendale Police Department, police said.

A search of the home turned up more evidence, including clothing worn by the
suspects during the robbery, officials added.

Other crimes Hayes and Rivers were charged with:

o Armed robbery on March 22 of an Arco Gas Station, 5800 San Fernando Road,
Glendale.

o Armed robbery on March 20 Yum Yum Donuts, 606 West Glenoaks Boulevard,
Glendale.

o Armed robbery on March 20 of Daily Donuts, 1908 Hillhurst Avenue, Los Angeles.

o Armed robbery on Feb. 16 of Honey Donuts, 1883 Daly Street, Los Angeles.

o Commercial burglary on Feb. 16 of Rite-Optics Optometry, 5591 Huntington
Drive, Los Angeles.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              472 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

California judge issued arrest warrant for Bikram yoga founder beset by legal
woes

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 302 words



HIGHLIGHT: A California judge on Wednesday issued an arrest warrant for the
founder of Bikram yoga, who's been ordered to hand over proceeds from his global
fitness business to satisfy a $6.8 million judgment won by a former legal
adviser.


LOS ANGELES  - A California judge on Wednesday issued an arrest warrant for the
founder of Bikram yoga, who's been ordered to hand over proceeds from his global
fitness business to satisfy a $6.8 million judgment won by a former legal
adviser.

Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Edward Moreton issued the warrant for
Bikram Choudhury and set bail at $8 million.

No lawyers appeared for Choudhury, who claimed last year he was nearly bankrupt.

The award was won by Minakshi "Micki" Jafa-Bodden, who claimed Choudhury fired
her when she refused to help him cover up a rape allegation.

Her attorney, Carla Minnard, says they've tracked luxury vehicles and other
property that Choudhury moved out of state and have court orders in Nevada and
Florida preventing him from moving property from warehouses.

Jafa-Bodden worked as head of legal and international affairs at Choudhury's Los
Angeles yoga school from spring 2011 until March 2013, when she said she was
abruptly fired from her six-figure position.

Jafa-Bodden also said Choudhury sexually harassed and inappropriately touched
her, and tried to get her to stay with him in a hotel suite.

She called it a "great day for women" when she was awarded a victory over
Choudhury.

Choudhury has built an empire around Bikram yoga, a rigorous, 90-minute routine
performed in a room that can reach more than 100 degrees. The technique is
taught at more than 650 studios worldwide and has drawn devoted followers.

He faces sexual assault lawsuits filed by six other women, five of whom accuse
Choudhury of raping them. One of those lawsuits is in the process of being
settled while the rest are set for trial later this year.

His attorneys have said he never sexually assaulted any of the women suing him,
pointing out that prosecutors had declined to bring charges in the cases.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              473 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           September 10, 2017 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

FALL TV PREVIEW;
'LAW & ORDER TRUE CRIME: THE MENENDEZ MURDERS';
Laying down the law;
Edie Falco plays defense attorney Leslie Abramson in a new look at the case

BYLINE: Greg Braxton

SECTION: SUNDAY CALENDAR; Calendar Desk; Part E; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 959 words


In 1989, Edie Falco paid little attention to the sensational murder case
dominating the headlines involving the wealthy Menendez family.

"The case was in the background of my life," says Falco, when asked about the
national fascination with the brutal Beverly Hills living room slayings of
entertainment executive Jose Menendez and his wife, Mary Louise "Kitty"
Menendez. The suspects were their sons, Lyle and Erik, who were 21 and 18,
respectively, at the time of the murders.

"There were other things to think about, and there were not 7,000 channels at
the time," says the Brooklyn native. Her distracted impression was that it was
just "a couple of bratty kids that killed their rich parents."

A few years shy of the crime's 30th anniversary, the case has moved to the
front-line of Falco's character gallery as the actress -- who scored
back-to-back triumphs with her Emmy-winning roles on "The Sopranos" and "Nurse
Jackie" -- stars in NBC's "Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders,"
premiering Sept. 26.

Falco plays no-nonsense defense attorney Leslie Abramson in the eight-episode
series, which introduces a nonfiction extension to the brand created by Dick
Wolf. The producer hopes the project is the first of many that can use the "L&O"
formula to reexamine high-profile crimes such as the Hillside Strangler and Son
of Sam.

"There are so many of these cases I want to know a lot more about," Wolf said.
The Menendez series will feature some "Law & Order" hallmarks: the colorful
opening logo and the "chung chung" between scenes.

"You have to appeal to your base," Wolf said with a chuckle. "I'm using every
comfort zone for my audience."

The docudrama also marks the latest in a stream of Hollywood projects that
reflect the ongoing interest in the scandalous murders, which centered on
whether the Menendez brothers were cold-blooded murderers or victims of horrific
child abuse who killed their parents to escape torment. (The brothers were
sentenced to life in prison in 1996.)

Among the various projects were Lifetime's June film "Menendez: Blood Brothers,"
which featured Courtney Love as Kitty Menendez, and two separate made-for-TV
movies in 1994.

The "Law & Order" version is the first to position Abramson as the central
character, and it plans to offer a more extensive examination of the killings.

Executive producer and showrunner Rene Balcer believes the brothers were
unfairly treated by what he called a corrupt justice system.

"These guys never should have been sentenced to life without parole," Balcer
said . "They were over-charged and over-sentenced. They were abused kids who
killed their abusers."

Although she had little interest at the time, Falco said she was attracted to
the series by the complicated dynamics.

"Things are never what they seem," the actress said on location in Pasadena.

Just minutes earlier, she had put on the wig that matched Abramson's famously
frizzy mane. Her appearance was worlds away from that of manicured mob wife
Carmela Soprano or bleary, drug-addicted nurse Jackie Peyton.

"It's a story of child abuse. That stuff hopefully affects everyone, but it
really just gets me right in my gut what these boys were put through," said
Falco, the mother of two young kids. "There's something more grotesque about the
fact that they had money. They were not allowed to be seen as victims. People
were not receptive to hearing how hard it was for them."

She was also moved by Abramson's mission to do right by the brothers.

"Leslie is a woman who is very good at her job," she said. "She is passionate
about it and believes in her clients. That doesn't necessarily mean she believes
they're innocent, but she believes in their right to a fair defense. That's
commendable of her. I think she really cared about these guys, beyond working
for them."

Moments later, Falco was on the steps of an office building substituting for the
Beverly Hills Courthouse, surrounded by extras playing reporters at a brief news
conference. Her tone was direct and stern as she channeled Abramson, accusing
prosecutors and police of violating her clients' rights of doctor-patient
privilege by seizing notes from Erik Menendez's psychiatrist.

"Any of us that sees a doctor, consults a lawyer or even confides in a priest,
minister or rabbi had better be worried," she said, as Abramson.

Although Falco captures the attorney's tough-as-nails demeanor, she got no
advice from her real-life counterpart.

"I did not meet her," says Falco. "I don't think she has any interest in being
involved with this. That was the word I got. But there's plenty to see of her on
YouTube and in photos. She also wrote a great book called 'The Defense Is
Ready,' which said a great deal about who she is and about the justice system,
especially at that time."

Lesli Linka Glatter ("Homeland"), who directed the first two episodes and also
serves as an executive producer, said she was continually impressed by Falco's
performance.

"Edie is an amazing actress, and she cannot lie," said Glatter. "When she takes
on a role, she gets fully inside a character."

Taking on such an intense character in a broadcast network drama was not part of
a specific career plan, said Falco.

"I have never known my creative direction after two iconic roles," she said.
"For a long time after 'The Sopranos,' the offers were all Italian wives. After
'Nurse Jackie,' it was tons of scripts about drug addicts."

Reflecting on those roles gives her both personal and professional perspective.

"The only thing that comes to mind is gratitude," she says. "I feel tremendously
blessed that I was presented with these two things that kept me busy for 10
years each. It kept me working and living in New York, which is what makes me
happiest."

--

greg.braxton@latimes.com

Twitter:@GeBraxton

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "I THINK she really cared about these guys, beyond working for
them," Falco says of Abramson and the defense attorney's clients, the Menendez
brothers.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Justin Lubin NBC PHOTO: EDIE FALCO, ready for a scene as
Leslie Abramson, was attracted to the series by the complicated dynamics.
"Things are never what they seem," the actress says.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Francine Orr
Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              474 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             April 18, 2017 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 984 words

ABSTRACT

Police log for Tuesday, April 18 Daily Breeze news

FULL TEXT

CARSON

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Residential burglary: April 1, 19500 block of South Tillman Avenue.

Residential burglary: April 2, 500 block of East Carson Street.

Residential burglary: April 4, 2700 block of East Tyler Street.

Burglary: April 1, 16500 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

Burglary: April 2, 2000 block of East 223rd Street.

Burglary: April 2, 700 block of East Albertoni Street.

Burglary: April 2, 22400 block of South Alameda Street.

Burglary: April 3, 16500 block of South Main Street.

Burglary: April 5, 16500 block of Main Street. Two incidents.

Grand theft: March 27, 16100 block of South Alondra Boulevard.

Grand theft: March 29, 20000 block of South Alvo Avenue.

Grand theft: April 1, 100 block of East Sepulveda Boulevard.

Grand theft: April 3, 23600 block of South Delford Avenue.

Grand theft: April 3, 200 block of East Sepulveda Boulevard.

Grand theft: April 4, 19900 block of South Campaign Drive.

Theft: April 1, 234th and Main streets.

Stolen vehicle:

March 30, 23400 block of South Avalon Boulevard.

March 30, 100 block of East Sepulveda Boulevard.

April 1, 2800 block of East 221st Street.

April 1, 22100 block of South Figueroa Street.

April 1, 20200 block of South Tillman Avenue.

April 2, 400 block of East Gardena Boulevard.

April 3, 500 block of West 218th Street.

April 7, 23300 block of South Figueroa Street.

UNINCORPORATED COUNTY AREA

Additional information about crime in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, including links to maps of crime, is available on its
website,http://sheriff.lacounty.gov/.

Burglary: March 31, 1200 block of West Carson Street.

Burglary: April 3, 24100 block of South Vermont Avenue.

Grand theft: March 27, 19700 block of Hamilton Avenue.

Grand theft: March 31, 23000 block of Petroleum Avenue

Grand theft: April 2, 19900 block of Normandie Avenue.

Stolen vehicle:

March 31, 20500 block of South Kenwood Avenue.

March 31, 900 block of West Fernrest Drive.

April 2, Marigold Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.

April 4, 800 block of Coriander Drive.

April 5, 20700 block of South Vermont Avenue.

April 5, 1200 block of West 223rd Street.

April 6, 19000 block of South Normandie Avenue.

TORRANCE

Battery: 8-8:17 p.m. April 2, Artesia and Crenshaw boulevards. Police said some
people verbally and physically attacked the victims because of their sexual
orientation.

Residential burglary: 1:15 p.m. April 3 to 5:30 p.m. April 5, 23100 block of
Anza Avenue. A door was forced open. Gas to a stove and a fireplace were turned
on. A fireplace key was reported stolen.

Residential burglary: 10:15-11:45 a.m. April 4, 2700 block of 230th Street. Some
people shattered a window to enter and fled in a vehicle. Checkbooks, IDs and a
tablet were reported stolen.

Commercial burglary: 10:30 p.m. April 5 to 6:20 a.m. April 6, 1600 block of
Crenshaw Boulevard. A glass door was shattered. No loss was reported.

Commercial burglary: 11:35 p.m. April 3 to 9:15 a.m. April 4, 2200 block of
Artesia Boulevard. Glass in a door was smashed for entry. Cash-register drawers
and money were reported stolen.

Attempted commercial burglary: 5:45 p.m. April 3 to 6 a.m. April 4, 5200 block
of Torrance Boulevard. An attempt was made to defeat a construction site gate
lock. No entry made.

Attempted commercial burglary: 10 a.m. April 3 to 1 p.m. April 5, 20500 block of
Henrietta Street. Attempts were made to force entry to a storage shed. No entry
made.

Theft: 10:55-11:40 p.m.. April 3, 21000 block of Amie Avenue. Bicycles were
reported stolen from a parking garage.

Theft: 8:30-9:07 p.m. April 8, 2300 block of Crenshaw Boulevard. An unattended
purse, wallet, credit cards, ID and mirror were reported stolen from a window
sill.

Theft: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. April 8, 21300 block of Mildred Avenue. A license plate
was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 1:45-1:50 p.m. April 7, 1600 block of Cabrillo Avenue. An unsecured
gaming console was reported stolen.

Theft: 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. April 7, 2700 block of Skypark Drive. A lock was
defeated. An electric bicycle was reported stolen from a rack.

Theft: 10 p.m. April 6 to 5 a.m. April 7, 2700 block of Carson Street. A
tailgate was reported stolen from a vehicle.

Theft: 2:30 p.m. April 6 to 5:50 a.m. April 7, 3600 block of Newton Street. An
unlocked bicycle was reported stolen from an underground parking garage.

Theft: 5:30-10:30 a.m. April 3, 17000 block of Yukon Avenue. Mailboxes were
forced open. Mail was reported stolen.

Theft: 4:35-4:40 p.m. April 2, 300 block of Paseo de la Playa. An unattended
backpack, wallet, speaker and cellphones were reported stolen from the beach.

Stolen vehicle:

4 p.m. April 3 to 7:30 a.m. April 4, 23000 block of Samuel Street. 2014 Toyota
Tundra.

11:15-11:21 p.m. April 8, 2100 block of 231st Street. 2012 Ford F-150.

7:37 p.m. April 8, 3500 block of Carson Street. 2016 Honda Pilot.

2-4 p.m. April 8, 21500 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2006 Chevrolet Silverado.

7:37 p.m. April 8, 3500 block of Carson Street. 2016 Honda Pilot.

2-4 p.m. April 8, 21500 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 2006 Chevrolet Silverado.

4 p.m. April 7 to 12:43 p.m. April 8, 19300 block of Hawthorne Boulevard. 1996
Honda Accord.

11 p.m. April 6 to 8 a.m. April 7, 18500 block of Mansel Avenue. 1997 Honda
Accord.

8 p.m. April 6 to 8:30 a.m. April 7, 2300 block of Del Amo Boulevard. 2000 Honda
Civic.

3 a.m. to 3 p.m. April 6, 2200 block of 235th Street. 1996 Honda Civic.

11 a.m. April 5 to 6 a.m. April 6, 4100 block of Pacific Coast Highway. 1999
Chevrolet Silverado.

10 p.m. April 4 to 6 a.m. April 5, 1500 block of Fern Avenue. 1997 Honda Civic.

10:39 a.m. April 4, 300 block of Palos Verdes Boulevard. 2002 Harley-Davidson.

5 p.m. April 2 to 9 p.m. April 4, 18900 block of Yukon Avenue. 2000 Honda Civic.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              475 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 3, 2017 Friday

TV producer is convicted of stabbing his tenant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 287 words

ABSTRACT

Daytime Emmy winner Andre Salam[#xfffd]n Bautista, aka Andre Bauth, 38, was
found guilty of attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon with
allegations that he used a knife and caused great bodily injury.

FULL TEXT

Daytime Emmy-winning producer Andre Salam[#xfffd]n Bautista was found guilty
Thursday of attempted murder in connection with a stabbing during an argument at
his Studio City home over the Academy Awards, officials said.

Bautista, aka Andre Bauth, was also convicted of assault with a deadly weapon
with allegations that he used a knife and caused great bodily injury during the
nonjury trial at Van Nuys courthouse, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's
Office said in a statement.

According to court testimony, Bautista stabbed his tenant in the chest on Sept.
8, 2015, after the victim laughed when Bautista bragged that he would one day
win five Academy Awards.

Shortly after the incident, the victim described what happened in an interview
withCBS Los Angeles.

"When he said, 'five Oscars,' we all kind of laughed a little bit, and he got
really upset," Clayton Haymes, a 23-year-old actor, told

the TV station. "I was terrified for my life. I'm just happy to be alive."

Bautista fled and the Los Angeles Police Department issued a warrant for his
arrest.

The DA's office said he surrendered at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City on Sept.
17 and was brought back to Los Angeles.

The Bautista won a Daytime Emmy in 2015 as a producer for the online soap opera
"The Bay."

According to evidence presented in court, he previously wrote and starred in an
independent movie about a landlord who killed his tenants.

Bautista, 38, is scheduled to be sentenced in Van Nuys on March 22.

He faces up to 13 years in state prison.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              476 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            February 3, 2017 Friday

TV producer is convicted of stabbing his tenant

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 287 words

ABSTRACT

Daytime Emmy winner Andre Salam[#xfffd]n Bautista, aka Andre Bauth, 38, was
found guilty of attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon with
allegations that he used a knife and caused great bodily injury.

FULL TEXT

Daytime Emmy-winning producer Andre Salam[#xfffd]n Bautista was found guilty
Thursday of attempted murder in connection with a stabbing during an argument at
his Studio City home over the Academy Awards, officials said.

Bautista, aka Andre Bauth, was also convicted of assault with a deadly weapon
with allegations that he used a knife and caused great bodily injury during the
nonjury trial at Van Nuys courthouse, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's
Office said in a statement.

According to court testimony, Bautista stabbed his tenant in the chest on Sept.
8, 2015, after the victim laughed when Bautista bragged that he would one day
win five Academy Awards.

Shortly after the incident, the victim described what happened in an interview
withCBS Los Angeles.

"When he said, 'five Oscars,' we all kind of laughed a little bit, and he got
really upset," Clayton Haymes, a 23-year-old actor, told

the TV station. "I was terrified for my life. I'm just happy to be alive."

Bautista fled and the Los Angeles Police Department issued a warrant for his
arrest.

The DA's office said he surrendered at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City on Sept.
17 and was brought back to Los Angeles.

The Bautista won a Daytime Emmy in 2015 as a producer for the online soap opera
"The Bay."

According to evidence presented in court, he previously wrote and starred in an
independent movie about a landlord who killed his tenants.

Bautista, 38, is scheduled to be sentenced in Van Nuys on March 22.

He faces up to 13 years in state prison.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              477 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2017 Wednesday

San Jose woman, Davis man face charges over secret Planned Parenthood films

BYLINE: The Associated Press

LENGTH: 552 words



HIGHLIGHT: A San Jose woman was one of two anti-abortion activists California
prosecutors charged on Tuesday for making undercover videos of themselves trying
to buy fetal tissue from Planned Parenthood. They face 15 felonies, prosecutors
say, for invading the privacy of medical providers by filming without consent.


By ANDREW DALTON

LOS ANGELES  - A San Jose woman was one of two anti-abortion activists
California prosecutors charged on Tuesday for making undercover videos of
themselves trying to buy fetal tissue from Planned Parenthood. They face 15
felonies, prosecutors say, for invading the privacy of medical providers by
filming without consent.

The charges against David Daleiden and Sandra Merritt of the Center for Medical
Progress come eight months after similar charges were dropped in Texas.

State Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a longtime Congressional Democrat who
took over the investigation in January, said in a statement that the state "will
not tolerate the criminal recording of conversations."

Prosecutors say Daleiden, of Davis, and Merritt, of San Jose, filmed 14 people
without permission between October 2013 and July 2015 in Los Angeles, San
Francisco and El Dorado counties. One felony count was filed for each person.
The 15th was for criminal conspiracy to invade privacy.

Daleiden said in an email to The Associated Press that the "bogus" charges are
coming from "Planned Parenthood's political cronies."

"The public knows the real criminals are Planned Parenthood and their business
partners," Daleiden said.

The conversations included officials from Planned Parenthood and StemExpress, a
California company that provides blood, tissue and other biological material for
medical research and had received fetal tissue from Planned Parenthood.

In one of the pair's videos, Daleiden poses as "Robert Sarkis" of the phony
Biomax Procurement Services and is shown discussing liver tissue with the chief
executive of StemExpress at a Northern California restaurant.

Abortion opponents said the recordings showed Planned Parenthood was illegally
harvesting and selling the organs. Planned Parenthood said the videos were
deceptively edited to support extremists' false claims.

"As we have said from the beginning, and as more than a dozen different state
investigations have made clear: Planned Parenthood has done nothing wrong, and
the only people who broke the law are those behind the fraudulent tapes," said
Mary Alice Carter, interim vice president of communications for Planned
Parenthood, in a statement.

In April of last year, Daleiden said in a Facebook post that California
Department of Justice agents raided his home, seizing all of his video footage
along with personal information.

Since then the case had gone largely quiet, with virtually no revelations about
the investigation and no indication that the charges were coming before they
were filed Tuesday in San Francisco Superior Court.

The case is one of the first of high-profile prosecutions for Becerra, who left
the U.S. House to take over for Kamala Harris after she became a U.S. Senator.

Daleiden and Merritt had previously been indicted in Texas on similar charges in
January of 2016, but all of the charges were eventually dropped by July as
prosecutors said a grand jury had overstepped its authority. The grand jury had
originally been convened to investigate Planned Parenthood, but after finding no
wrongdoing turned around and indicted Daleiden and Merritt instead.

The videos reignited the American abortion debate when they were released in
2015, and increased Congressional heat against Planned Parenthood that has yet
to subside.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FILE - In this April 29, 2016 file photo, David Robert Daleiden, right,
leaves a courtroom after a hearing in Houston. California prosecutors say two
anti-abortion activists who made undercover videos of themselves trying to buy
fetal tissue from Planned Parenthood have been charged with 15 felony counts of
invasion of privacy. State Attorney General Xavier Becerra announced the charges
Tuesday, March 28, 2017, against Daleiden and Sandra Merritt. (AP Photo/Pat
Sullivan, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              478 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday

Suspects in Pasadena armed robbery charged with string of other incidents

BYLINE: Sandra T. Molina; smolina@scng.com @MolinaSGVN on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 395 words

ABSTRACT

Based on the arrests of three robbery suspects earlier this year in Pasadena,
authorities linked them to a string of other incidents throughout several cities


FULL TEXT

Authorities have filed several counts of armed robbery against three suspects
originally arrested for the robbery of a Pasadena doughnut shop in May.

Malik Arthur was charged with 13 counts of armed robbery and Thomas Rollins was
charged with seven counts of armed robbery this month by the Los Angeles County
District Attorney's Office.

The third suspect, a 16-year-old boy, is currently in custody on a detained
petition as the DA's office reviews the case.

Investigators from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau's
Burglary-Robbery Task Force became aware of a series of armed robberies that had
occurred during the late evening/early morning hours at multiple convenience
stores and doughnut shops throughout Los Angeles County, officials said in a
written statement.

The Pasadena robbery occurred on May 31 at Poster's Donuts, located in the 3500
block of East Foothill Boulevard.

Police said the suspects pointed a gun at the clerk and ordered the employee to
lie on the ground. They then took money from the cash register.

Based on this arrest, the suspect's statements, and investigative assistance
from multiple agencies throughout Los Angeles and San Bernardino counties
(Torrance, Los Angeles, South Gate and Fontana police departments), task force
investigators were able to identify 10 additional armed robberies committed by
the same suspects, officials said.

The suspects are accused in a series of robberies in the county area of Covina,
the cities of Torrance, Bellflower, South Gate and Fontana, as well as in the
Topanga, Harbor and Pacific divisions of the LAPD.

"The assailants would enter the locations armed with a handgun.  The suspects
would order clerks to open cash registers where they would proceed to steal
cash, miscellaneous grocery items, and lottery tickets.  The suspects and weapon
appeared to be the same in each of these robberies," officials said.

During an interview conducted by sheriff's detectives, the suspects admitted to
their involvement in several of the armed robberies.

Arthur, who is facing over 60 years in prison, is currently being held on $1.35
million bail. Rollins, who is facing 12 years in prison, is being held on
$750,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              479 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday

Raids nab 21 suspected MS-13 gang members

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


LOS ANGELES >> Nearly two dozen people suspected of being members and leaders of
the violent Mara Salvatrucha street gang known as MS-13 were arrested Wednesday
in the largest-ever law enforcement action in Los Angeles against the gang,
authorities said.

The 21 suspects arrested Wednesday were among 44 defendants named in a sweeping
anti-racketeering indictment, some of whom are already in jail, according to the
U.S. attorney's office.

The massive sweep capped a nearly three-year investigation involving federal,
state and local law enforcement authorities.

"These cases constitute the largest crackdown of MS-13 ever conducted in Los
Angeles," said Acting United States Attorney Sandra R. Brown at a news
conference in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the arrests.

She added that more than half

of the suspects named in the indictment were in the country illegally, but U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement was not involved in the investigation.

"This has nothing to do with their immigration status," said Los Angeles Police
Chief Charlie Beck as he joined Brown and other members of the law enforcement
community. "This has to do with their criminal status. I will add that many of
the witnesses that allowed us to do this by their statements also have
immigration issues."

Those arrested by members of the Los Angeles Metropolitan Task Force on Violent
Gangs include the former head of the entire gang in Los Angeles and 12 senior
leaders of the gang, who led a majority of the gang's cliques in the Los Angeles
region, authorities said.

The high-ranking gang members had formed a de facto MS-13 leadership council, a
committee that was needed because no one person was willing to take on the top
role in light of ongoing scrutiny by law enforcement, authorities said.

The indictment charges three MS-13 members for killings they are accused of
committing in connection with the gang's activities.

One suspect, Carlos Alfredo Cardoza Lopez, 23, also known as "Little Boy," faces
a violent crime in aid of racketeering - or VICAR - murder charge for allegedly
fatally shooting an innocent bystanderon Aug. 15, 2015, inside the
gang-controlled Little San Salvador Nightclub and Restaurant on North Western
Avenue, officials said. A friend of the victim was also stabbed during the
attack.

Two other suspected MS-13 members - Samuel Alexander Paredes Rivas, 39, known as
"Blacky," and Joffri Molina, 24, known as "Espia" - are also charged with
murder.

Rivas is charged with murder in the death a man on Aug. 30, 2015, at a strip
mall in Pacoima. Molina is charged with murder in the death of a man on Sept.
27, 2015, on a street in North Hollywood.

"This gang is responsible for murders - both of rival gangsters and innocent
bystanders - as well as drug dealing and extortion in many communities in the
Los Angeles area," Brown said. "With thousands of members here in the Southland,
the gang's power is widespread, power which it maintains with severe acts of
violence."

The three people facing murder charges could face the death penalty if
convicted, authorities said.

Beck said there were 800 documented MS-13 members in L.A.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              480 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                            March 22, 2017 Wednesday

Wyclef Jean gets apology from Los Angeles police

BYLINE: Tony Hicks

LENGTH: 348 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rap star detained early Tuesday morning in West Hollywood in a case
of mistaken identity.




The Los Angeles Country Sheriff's Department has apologized to Wyclef Jean,
after the hip-hop artist was detained early Tuesday morning in West Hollywood in
a case of mistaken identity.

Deputies were looking for armed robbery suspects near the 8900 block of Sunset
Blvd., according to the Los Angeles Daily News. The call came at 12:46 a.m. and
described a man and a woman fleeing older model tan or gold Honda or Toyota with
paper license plates. Police said Jean was driving in a car that fit the
description.

Police later said Jean was in a 2002 tan Toyota with Michigan license plates.

Jean wasn't happy, and said so on Twitter.

"LAPD another case of mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas
station as I was in the studio working but I'm in handcuffs?" he wrote.

Jean's also released a statement through his publicist, saying "I was asked by
the police to put my hands up. Then I was told 'do not move. I was instantly
handcuffed before being asked to identify myself and before being told why. In
the process I said my name and told them they have the wrong person. They
proceeded to ignore me, and I was treated like a criminal. I am sure no father
wants his sons or daughters to see him in handcuffs, especially if he is
innocent."

The Sheriff's Department released a statement on Tuesday afternoon, saying "It
is unfortunate that Mr. Jean was detained for six minutes during this
investigation, as he had no involvement whatsoever in this violent crime." They
said they regretted the mistake, but it was a lawful detention in the interest
of "catching dangerous and armed suspects."

They also said they regretted that Jean hasn't reunited with the Fugees.

Well ... they didn't actually say it. But I bet they were thinking it.

"The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department is apologetic for any inconvenience
this process caused Mr. Jean. We are grateful we were able to apprehend the
robbery suspects and that no one was seriously injured," the statement said.

Deputies arrested the suspects about four blocks from where Jean was detained,
according to the Daily News.





LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              481 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Man out of a job after Charlottesville rally;
Cole White worked at a popular Berkeley eatery -- until he was recognized in a
photo.

BYLINE: Veronica Rocha

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words


A man is out of a job at a popular Berkeley hot dog eatery after photos of him
attending a torch-lit gathering of white supremacists in Charlottesville, Va.,
were circulated on social media.

Top Dog, a restaurant chain, said in a statement to the Los Angeles Times on
Monday that it spoke to the employee, Cole White, after it came to management's
attention that he had participated in a march through the University of Virginia
on Friday night.

Participants carried tiki torches and shouted the Nazi slogan "Blood and soil,"
among other chants. The march was the first event in the weekend's deadly "Unite
the Right" rally.

"Cole chose to voluntarily resign his employment with Top Dog and we accepted
his resignation," Top Dog said in its statement.

White was first identified by the Twitter account Yes, You're Racist, which
shared a photograph of a blond man in a striped shirt amid a crowd of other
white men carrying torches.

Top Dog dismissed accounts that it had fired White. The chain also repudiated
reports that it "knowingly employs racists and promotes racist theology."

"That too is false," Top Dog said.

After talking with White, the restaurant taped signs to its doors saying,
"Effective Saturday 12th August, Cole White no longer works at Top Dog. The
actions of those in Charlottesville are not supported by Top Dog. We believe in
individual freedom and voluntary association for everyone."

White could not be reached for comment.

Charlottesville was the scene of bloody clashes that erupted Saturday between
counter-protesters and various white supremacist groups that had assembled to
protest the removal of a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee from
Emancipation Park.

Shortly after the violence broke out, state officials declared a state of
emergency and shut down the event.

Later, the driver of a gray sports car plowed into a crowd of
counter-protesters, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer and injuring 19 others.

Authorities soon arrested the suspected driver, identified as James Alex Fields
Jr., 20. The Ohio resident has been accused of second-degree murder and other
charges. He is being held without bail.

On Monday, President Trump denounced the "racist violence."

"Racism is evil and those who cause violence in its name are criminals and
thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists and other hate groups
that are repugnant to everything we hold dear as Americans," the president said
in a televised statement.

The president's statement came days after he was widely criticized for not
specifically naming and condemning white supremacists for the violence in his
initial speech Saturday.

Top Dog said it takes pride in "embracing and respecting all our differences and
every individual's choice to do as that person wishes within the boundaries of
the law."

"We do not endorse hatred or any illegal conduct. It simply is not part of our
culture," the restaurant chain said.

The hot dog business said it respects its employees' rights to their opinions
and said they can make their own choices, "but must accept the responsibilities
of those choices."

--

veronica.rocha@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A SIGN POSTED at Top Dog, a popular restaurant near UC Berkeley,
announces that it's no longer employing a man who was photographed over the
weekend at the violent "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, Va.
PHOTOGRAPHER:John G. Mabanglo European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              482 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 2, 2017 Thursday

Teen accused of fatally stabbing ex-girlfriend being tried as juvenile

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @SGVCrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

ABSTRACT

PIC RIVERA >> A 17-year-old Pico Rivera boy previously charged as an adult in
connection with the fatal stabbing of his 16-year-old ex-girlfriend is now being
tried as a juvenile as a result of the passage of Proposition 57, passed by
California owners in November.

FULL TEXT

PICO RIVERA >> A 17-year-old Pico Rivera boy previously charged as an adult in
connection with the fatal stabbing of his 16-year-old ex-girlfriend is now being
tried as a juvenile as a result of the passage of Proposition 57, passed by
California owners in November.

Rory Murga is accused of murder forthe death of 16-year-old Elena Lillian Moore,
who was stabbed to death during the early-morning hours of Aug. 12, 2016, inside
her home in the9800 block of Shade Lane, according to Los Angeles County
sheriff's and coroner's officials said. Murga and Moore had dated for about a
year but broke up about two weeks prior to the stabbing.

Detectives first labeled Murga a "person of interest" in the slaying. After he
wasfound and taken into custodyfour days later, the Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office elected tocharge Murga as an adult.

In the month that followed the slaying, California voters approvedProposition
57, which increased parole and good-behavior credit opportunities for felons
convicted of nonviolent crimes. The proposition also required hearings be held
before juvenile courts to determine whether minors suspected of committing
crimes would be charged as adults.

Such a hearing was held Feb. 10 for Murga. The case was returned to juvenile
court for further proceedings, district attorney's office spokeswoman Sarah
Ardalani said.

A motions hearing was scheduled in the case in juvenile court on April 27, she
said.

But prosecutors plan to again seek that Murga be charged as an adult, according
to Ardalani.

Moore's mother was asleep upstairs when she heard her daughter scream Murga's
during the attack name before making her way upstairs and collapsing in the
hallway, Lt. Eddie Hernandez of the sheriff's Homicide Bureau said. The girl had
been stabbed several times.

It appeared Murga entered and exited the home through the back door, though it
was unclear whether he forced his way in or was let in.

Investigators found a steak knife believed to be the weapon used in the slaying
at the scene, officials said.

Deputies found and arrested Murga on Aug. 16, 2016, after finding him sitting
beneath a railroad underpass along Rosemead Boulevard, near Slauson Avenue,
Hernandez said.

A motive in the slaying has not been released.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              483 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday

Toy gun found at scene of shooting;
20-year-old transient killed by police had a long list of arrests

BYLINE: Larry Altman; laltman@scng.com @larryaltman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 489 words

ABSTRACT

Officer involved shooting update

FULL TEXT

A man who was shot and killed by police in Wilmington following a report of a
man with a gun was identified Friday as transient with several recent arrests in
Redondo Beach.

Eric Rivera, 20, who last showed an address in Lomita, was killed about 9 p.m.
Wednesday in the confrontation with Los Angeles police officers in the 1100
block of North Wilmington Boulevard, authorities said.

Investigators said a toy gun was found at the scene.

Police officers encountered Rivera shortly after someone reported a man with a
gun. According to a Los Angeles police statement, officers spotted a man in his
mid-20s standing alone.

"Believing this may be the suspect from the radio call, they directed their
attention toward

him; at that time, there was an officer-involved shooting," the statement said.
"Several shots were fired and the suspect was struck and fell to the ground. The
officers' vehicle traveled forward, striking the male and pinning him underneath
it."

Paramedics pronounced Rivera dead at the scene. One officer, who at first was
believed to be shot in the arm, was taken to a hospital for treatment. He was
injured getting out of his car but had not been shot.

Police said detectives interviewed witnesses who said that in the minutes
leading up to the shooting, "they saw the male who officers shot, with a
handgun. A toy gun was found at the scene and was recovered by detectives."

The LAPD's specialized Force Investigation Division is investigating the
shooting. Representatives from the Office of the Inspector General and the Los
Angeles County District Attorney's Office also were on scene.

Los Angeles County Superior Court records show Rivera pleaded no contest April
24 at the Torrance courthouse to two counts of petty theft. He was sentenced to
120 days in county jail. It was unclear when he was released.

He was convicted June 7, 2016, in Torrance court of reckless driving. He
received five days in jail and was placed on three years of probation.

County jail records show Redondo Beach police arrested Rivera for misdemeanor
crimes March 23, April 21, May 6 and May 17 as well as a felony on May 22.
Lomita deputies arrested him on May 20, 2016.

Redondo Beach police officers recently became well-acquainted with him as a
local transient. He was picked up for various crimes, including narcotics
possession and being drunk in public, Redondo Beach police Lt. Fabian Saucedo
said.

"He was just starting to come across our radar," Saucedo said.

On May 18, Rivera allegedly walked into an empty pizza restaurant on the Redondo
Beach pier, hopped the counter, opened the register and started taking money,
Redondo Beach police Lt. Fabian Saucedo said.

Rivera ran when the owner spotted him. The owner chased Rivera, confronted him
and fought with him, but Rivera slipped away. Police found evidence at the pizza
restaurant linking Rivera to the crime and arrested him days later.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              484 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              July 7, 2017 Friday

Fugitive's return stirs old emotions for women

BYLINE: Wes Woods II; wwoods@scng.com @JournoWes on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 929 words

ABSTRACT

A nursing assistant suspected of sexually assaulting patients at Tarzana
Hospital has been extradited to Los Angeles after fleeing to his native
Guatemala more than a decade ago, police announced today. Ramon Gaspar, 48, was
transported on June 26 to Los Angeles, where police took custody of him. Former
patients reported being sexually assaulted by Gaspar after surgery, some while
still under the effects of anesthesia, according to the Los Angeles Police
Department, which began an investigation in June 2006. Gaspar was arrested on
June 15, 2006, and booked on three felony counts of sexual assault. The Los
Angeles County District Attorney's Office later charged him with multiple counts
of sexual assault, police said. Several additional alleged victims came forward
after police issued a news release about Gaspar on July 7, 2006, resulting in
seven additional counts being filed against him, police said. Gaspar skipped
bail soon afterward and disappeared with his wife and 6- year-old son, according
to the LAPD. The case was featured on the Fox Broadcasting series ``America's
Most Wanted'' and investigators learned Gaspar had fled to Guatemala. Gaspar was
being held without bail at the Inmate Reception Center in downtown Los Angeles
and was next due in court on Friday in Van Nuys, according to sheriff's inmate
records.

FULL TEXT

Courtney Rosenberg is still haunted by what happened to her more than 10 years
ago. That's when a nursing assistant sexually assaulted her, police said.

"When can I just be me and go back to my own life? Because it is very hard, I
think, for a lot of people to understand what a flashback could be like or when
nightmares start," said Rosenberg on Thursday, after she and Los Angeles police
discussed the arrest of Eduardo Ramon Rodas Gaspar, who is accused of assaulting
Rosenberg and patients at Tarzana Hospital in 2006.

Back then, on June 15, 2006, Gaspar - once a Canoga Park resident - was arrested
on three felony counts of sexual assault. But

authorities said he evaded their grasp, fleeing with his family to his native
Guatemala after the L.A. County District Attorney's Office filed seven
additional felony accounts against him.

In the meantime, responding to Los Angeles Police Department pleas for the
public's help, more women came forward, describing similar assaults while they
were patients at the Tarzana hospital.

Former patients, authorities said, described Gaspar sexually assaulting them
post-surgery, while they were under the influence of anesthesia.

Police said on Thursday that more than a decade after he fled, they've captured
Gaspar, who was extradited to Los Angeles on June 26.

LAPD Detective Ninette Toosbuy said there are at least 10 felony charges against
Gaspar, with 13 women initially involved in the 2006 investigation. One has
since refused to take part in the investigation, she said.

The LAPD West Valley Sex Crimes detectives began a manhunt for Gaspar after he
vanished. The investigation was featured on the "America's Most Wanted"
television show in 2008.

Toosbuy said she got news five months ago he had been taken into custody in
Guatemala because of the LAPD investigation, and a week ago she learned he would
be arriving in L.A.

The "one bit" of information Toosbuy received on Gaspar was he was providing
services as a medic for a church in Guatemala. His wife and son are still in the
country, she added.

Rosenberg was the first person to report Gaspar, Toosbuy said. That started the
police investigation, which led detective to reached out to the hospital. She
learned of at least two other complaints against him, which led to a news
conference in July 2006, where other women came forth.

"The common pattern is that Mr. Gaspar was the nursing assistant for all these
victims," Toosbuy said, adding he was tasked with caring for them after their
surgeries.

In November 2011, according to reports, Rosenberg was awarded $65 million by a
jury after she brought a lawsuit against the hospital, then known as
Encino-Tarzana Medical Center. The ownership has changed twice in 10 years,
Toosbuy added at the news conference.

The process of finding Gaspar was "frustrating," but Toosbuy said she carried
on.

"For every time someone told me to give up on it and let it go, it made me
pissed off and not give up on it," Toosbuy explained. "Officially getting him
into custody ... I don't even know how to describe it."

Anna Arnett, who also said she was assaulted by Gaspar, said she will never
forget what happened to her.

"I ended up having to have another emergency surgery years later, so I had
someone from my family in my room 24 hours a day," Arnett said. "Even today, if
I were to go back to the hospital, someone would be in there 24 hours a day."

For Rosenberg, she describes her current emotions as "scary" with Gaspar back.

"I think we all accepted he was gone, and that was just the way it was,"
Rosenberg said. "And now he's back ... will he go to trial? Will he take the
plea? We don't know. So it's a little scary. Because it's not just you go to
court for the day and deal with it. It's a lot of emotions. Even now, since he
has been caught, my nightmares have started."

There could be additional victims, Toosbuy added.

Gaspar was being held without bail at the Inmate Reception Center in downtown
Los Angeles and is due in court at 8 a.m. today in Van Nuys, according to
sheriff's inmate records.

If anyone has more information, they can contact Detective Ninette Toosbuy, West
Valley Area Sex Crimes Detail at 818-374-7718.

City News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              485 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Federal agents raid California business in green card probe

BYLINE: Amy Taxin; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 534 words

ABSTRACT

Federal authorities have raided a Los Angeles-area business they say cheated a
U.S. government visa program to obtain green cards for wealthy Chinese investors


FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Federal authorities on Wednesday raided a Los Angeles-area
business suspected of cheating the U.S. government visa program to obtain green
cards for wealthy Chinese investors.

Investigators searched the office of the California Investment Immigration Fund
in San Gabriel as part of the fraud investigation.

Under a U.S. government program, foreign investors who commit at least half a
million dollars to job-creating projects in designated areas can apply to obtain
green cards.

The California fund sought green cards for more than 100 Chinese investors for
construction projects that were never built, according to federal court filings.

"As a result of the fraudulent scheme, many foreign nationals were able to
improperly obtain U.S. green cards through the EB-5 visa program, even though
those foreigners did not in fact truly invest in U.S. businesses, nor were new
American jobs created," FBI Special Agent Gary Chen wrote in the papers.

Chen also wrote that some of the $50 million raised through the scheme was
refunded to investors while their immigration applications were pending or used
to buy personal homes for Victoria Chan, an attorney, and her father Tat Chan,
who ran the fund.

In some instances, the fund fronted the money for people who were not legitimate
investors, he wrote.

In addition, at least three investors who obtained green cards through the
program were fugitives wanted by the Chinese government, Chen wrote.

A message left at the fund's office seeking comment was not immediately
returned. Multiple email messages were sent to addresses for Victoria Chan.

The company claims on its website to focus on developing hotels, retail,
mixed-use residential and senior living facilities.

No charges were filed Wednesday and no arrests were expected, said Laura
Eimiller, an FBI spokeswoman.

The investigation dates back at least four years, when Homeland Security
investigators looked into one of the listed project sites. The site appeared the
same a few months ago and no construction permits had been pulled, Chen wrote.

The probe in California comes as U.S. lawmakers weigh proposed changes to the
visa program that has grown popular among wealthy foreigners seeking to move to
the U.S. but faces widespread criticism amid allegations of fraud and misuse.

The EB-5 program, which began more than two decades ago, lets foreigners pool
their investments through so-called regional centers aimed at boosting economic
growth in exchange for green cards.

As of last year, more than 800 centers had been approved to participate in the
program, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office.

Critics say many of the investments purportedly aimed at assisting poor areas of
the U.S. have instead wound up going to projects in more affluent neighborhoods.

In addition, programs in Vermont, South Dakota and elsewhere have been wracked
by fraud scandals. Earlier this year, a man who once ran South Dakota's program
was sentenced to probation and a fine after striking a deal with federal
prosecutors.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              486 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Federal agents raid California business in green card probe

BYLINE: Amy Taxin; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 534 words

ABSTRACT

Federal authorities have raided a Los Angeles-area business they say cheated a
U.S. government visa program to obtain green cards for wealthy Chinese investors


FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> Federal authorities on Wednesday raided a Los Angeles-area
business suspected of cheating the U.S. government visa program to obtain green
cards for wealthy Chinese investors.

Investigators searched the office of the California Investment Immigration Fund
in San Gabriel as part of the fraud investigation.

Under a U.S. government program, foreign investors who commit at least half a
million dollars to job-creating projects in designated areas can apply to obtain
green cards.

The California fund sought green cards for more than 100 Chinese investors for
construction projects that were never built, according to federal court filings.

"As a result of the fraudulent scheme, many foreign nationals were able to
improperly obtain U.S. green cards through the EB-5 visa program, even though
those foreigners did not in fact truly invest in U.S. businesses, nor were new
American jobs created," FBI Special Agent Gary Chen wrote in the papers.

Chen also wrote that some of the $50 million raised through the scheme was
refunded to investors while their immigration applications were pending or used
to buy personal homes for Victoria Chan, an attorney, and her father Tat Chan,
who ran the fund.

In some instances, the fund fronted the money for people who were not legitimate
investors, he wrote.

In addition, at least three investors who obtained green cards through the
program were fugitives wanted by the Chinese government, Chen wrote.

A message left at the fund's office seeking comment was not immediately
returned. Multiple email messages were sent to addresses for Victoria Chan.

The company claims on its website to focus on developing hotels, retail,
mixed-use residential and senior living facilities.

No charges were filed Wednesday and no arrests were expected, said Laura
Eimiller, an FBI spokeswoman.

The investigation dates back at least four years, when Homeland Security
investigators looked into one of the listed project sites. The site appeared the
same a few months ago and no construction permits had been pulled, Chen wrote.

The probe in California comes as U.S. lawmakers weigh proposed changes to the
visa program that has grown popular among wealthy foreigners seeking to move to
the U.S. but faces widespread criticism amid allegations of fraud and misuse.

The EB-5 program, which began more than two decades ago, lets foreigners pool
their investments through so-called regional centers aimed at boosting economic
growth in exchange for green cards.

As of last year, more than 800 centers had been approved to participate in the
program, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office.

Critics say many of the investments purportedly aimed at assisting poor areas of
the U.S. have instead wound up going to projects in more affluent neighborhoods.

In addition, programs in Vermont, South Dakota and elsewhere have been wracked
by fraud scandals. Earlier this year, a man who once ran South Dakota's program
was sentenced to probation and a fine after striking a deal with federal
prosecutors.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              487 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             May 20, 2017 Saturday

Fontana man charged with trying to kill officer

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales; rugonzales@scng.com @RubyGonzales2 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words

ABSTRACT

The DA's Office on Thursday charged a Fontana man with trying to kill an
Irwindale police officer. Andrew Acuna tried to stab the officer who stopped him
for jaywalking.

FULL TEXT

IRWINDALE >> Prosecutors on Thursday filed charges against a Fontana man accused
of trying to kill an Irwindale motor officer  with two makeshift knives or
shanks.

Sarah Ardalani, spokeswoman for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's
Officer, said Andrew Joseph Acuna, 33, has been charged with attempted murder of
an officer, assault upon an officer, carrying a dirk or dagger and resisting an
officer.

His Thursday arraignment at West Covina Superior Court was continued to June 12,
according to Ardalani.

Irwindale police said the officer spotted a man with a bandana covering part of
his face jaywalking on Azusa Avenue, near Arrow Highway, in Azusa on Tuesday
afternoon.

The officer ordered the man to stop several times. Police said the pedestrian,
later identified as Acuna, became hostile and walked away.

The officer got off his motorcycle and followed the suspect to eastbound Arrow
Highway. Police said the armed suspect struck the officer who fell on his back.
The suspect then got on top of the officer and allegedly tried to stab him
several times.

The officer punched the suspect and disarmed him. Two detectives who were in the
area helped take the man into custody, police said.

The three officers and Acuna sustained minor injuries. Police said a container
marked watermelon hash oil was found on Acuna.

He remains in custody at the Inmate Reception Center in Los Angeles in lieu of
$1.07 million bail.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              488 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2017 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                 November 2017

                                 Gregory A. Lee

                             17897 Macarthur Blvd.
                               Irvine,  CA 92614
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (949) 955-2445
URL: www.legal-wizard.net

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   Orange County Criminal Attorney Orange County Personal Injury Attorney Los
Angeles Perwsonal Injury Attorney Orange County Los Angeles Dui Attorney San
Diego Attorneys Attorneys San Diego Orange County Defense Attorney Orange County
assault Orange County attorney directory Orange County attorney search OC LA
bail bonds bail bondsmen child molestation Orange County criminal attorney
criminal case criminal defense criminal defense attorney,Los Angeles criminal
defense lawyer San Diego criminal law,Orange County criminal lawyer,Orange
County date rape,Orange County defense attorney,Orange County defense
lawyer,Orange County domestic violence,Orange County drug arrest,Orange County
dui attorney,Orange County dui,Orange County lawyer,Orange County dwi,Orange
County expungements,Orange County,federal crime,Orange County federal criminal
defense,Orange County federal criminal defense attorney,Orange County federal
criminal,Orange County defense lawyer,Orange County federal law,Orange County
federal lawyer,Orange County felony,Orange County felony assault,Orange County
juvenile crime,Orange County lawyer directory,Orange County lawyer search,Orange
County misdemeanor,Orange County sex crime,Orange County white collar crime,
Orange County white collar crime lawyer,Orange County white collar criminal
defense

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2017


                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            April 13, 2017 Thursday

Man killed in shooting at church identified Deputy faces jail for soliciting
prostitute

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 323 words

ABSTRACT

crime briefs from the San Gabriel Valley and Whittier areas

FULL TEXT

Coroner's officials have released the identity of a man found shot to death
inside a car in a church parking lot in  Montebello two weeks ago.

Ricardo Baltazar Mota, 33, died in the shooting, which was reported about 8:30
p.m. on March 27 in the 800 block of North Garfield Avenue, Los Angeles County
Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner Investigator Kelly Yagerliner said. His
city of residence was unknown.

Reports of gunfire first led deputies to discover Mota mortally wounded inside a
car, which had collided into another parked vehicle in the parking lot of Our
Lady of the Miraculous Medal Catholic Church, according to Sgt. Marcelo Quintero
of the sheriff's Homicide Bureau. He had been shot multiple times in the upper
body.

It appeared Mota had either been parked in the lot, or just pulled in, when the
shooting took place.

Anyone with information is urged to contact the sheriff's Homicide Bureau at
323-890-5500. Tips may also be submitted anonymously to L.A. Regional Crime
Stoppers at 800-222-8477.

A Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputy faces getting sentenced to 30 days in
county jail for soliciting a prostitute online for a tryst at a Claremont motel.

Raymond Bernasconi, 55, pleaded no contest on Monday to a misdemeanor count of
soliciting a prostitute.

Deputy District Attorney Annie Laurie Abriel said Bernasconi will be sentenced
May 9 at Bellflower Superior Court. As part of the plea deal he will be required
to take an AIDS test, according to Abriel. Bernasconi was working as a bailiff
at Pomona Superior Court at the time.

The prosecution said he made arrangements online on Oct. 12, 2016 to meet a
prostitute at a motel. The Sheriff's Human Trafficking Bureau arrested him when
he showed up.

The sheriff's department relieved Bernasconi of duty five days later, but he
remained an employee. It's not clear if he still works for the department.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              490 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             June 15, 2017 Thursday

Gang leader of South LA punished for murders, drugs and other crimes

LENGTH: 342  words


The leader of a South Los Angeles street gang blamed for two decades of murders,
robberies, extortion, illegal firearms possession, witness intimidation and
narcotics trafficking near downtown`s Skid Row have been sentenced to 21 years
and 10 months in federal prison.

Tyrine "Lil` C-Bone" Martinez, 36, will also have to spend 10 years of
supervised release after serving his prison time.

Tyrine "Lil` C-Bone" Martinez, of Los Angeles, pleaded guilty last year to
federal felony charges of racketeering conspiracy, conspiring to commit murder,
conspiring to traffic crack cocaine, illegally possessing a firearm and selling
crack cocaine near schools, according to the U.S. Attorney`s Office.

As a result of his plea, Martinez faces a potential life sentence and a
mandatory minimum term of 15 years in federal prison.

However, prosecutors are recommending that U.S. District Judge S. James Otero
impose a 24-year sentence, while the defense is asking for the minimum allowable
term.

He was among 72 defendants charged in an indictment targeting the Broadway
Gangster Crips.

In his plea agreement, Martinez admitted to being a leader of the violent hit
squad known as the Gremlin Riderz, a clique of the Broadway gang, pushing
subordinates to engage in violence and disciplining those who did not follow
gang rules.

He also admitted to conspiring to kill Andre Griffin, a fellow Broadway gang
member who had spoken to police about a 2012 shooting that killed an innocent
teenager and struck three others, including a 10-year-old girl and her mother.

As a leader of the Gremlin Riderz, officials wrote in Martinezs sentencing memo,
the defendant served as the prototype of why and how gangs destroy communities
(most often their own) through violence, intimidation, fueling crack cocaine
addiction and by contriving a self-serving and morally corrupt code.

U.S. District Judge S. James Otero also ordered Martinez, whose criminal career
began with a robbery at age 16, to spend 10 years on supervised release after
serving his sentence. 2017 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2017 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              491 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday

FBI arrests seven suspected of drug trafficking

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales; rugonzales@scng.com @RubyGonzales2 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

ABSTRACT

Jeuri Limon Elenes allegedly headed a group with ties to the Sinaloa Cartel that
brought drugs from Mexico to be sold in the United States. The group used an
Azusa apartment as a stash house and deposited the proceeds from drug sales into
various bank accounts. Elenes' mother was among the seven suspects arrested
Thursday while 14 remained fugitives. During a wiretap investigation from 2014
to 2016, a drug task force seized drugs with a street value of more than $6
million that included about 290 pounds of methamphetamine, 280 pounds of
cocaine, 30 pounds of heroin and 81 pounds of marijuana. During the
investigation, authorities also seized 33 firearms, three vehicles with hidden
compartments and $1.3 million in cash. The Los Angeles Strike Force was created
in 2014 to target Mexican drug cartels that use the Los Angeles metropolitan
region as a primary hub for the distribution of drugs across the US.

FULL TEXT

A drug task force led by the FBI on Thursday arrested seven alleged members of a
drug trafficking group with ties to the Sinaloa Cartel.

The group got the drugs from the cartel in Mexico, smuggled methamphetamines,
heroin and cocaine into the United States, kept two stash houses in the San
Gabriel Valley and deposited money from drug sales in several bank accounts,
according to a federal indictment that was unsealed Thursday.

Authorities alleged associates of the cartel distributed the drugs throughout
the country and the proceeds from the drugs sales were funneled back to Mexico.

Jeuri Limon Elenes, who is known by the monikers "PRUDE", "Rzr", "FOX" and
"Royal Nuevo," Jaime Omar Salazar Rosas, who is also known as "Doc" or "D," and
Jesus Abel Casares Elenes, who also goes by "Trocua," "El Troc" and "Trocua
Nuevo" are the alleged leaders of the drug trafficking group.

Authorities said Jeuri Elenes' 64-year-old mother, Maria Ernestina Limon Elenes
of Azusa, is also a member of the group.

Of the 22 suspects indicted, eight are in custody. The leaders are among the 14
suspects on the run. Authorities believe many of the fugitives are in Mexico.

Thom Mrozek, spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office, said the Los Angeles
Strike Force seized drugs with an estimated street value of more than $6 million
during the wiretap investigation from 2014 to 2016. These included about 290
pounds of methamphetamine, 280 pounds of cocaine, 30 pounds of heroin and 81
pounds of marijuana. He said investigators also recovered 33 firearms, three
cars with hidden compartments and $1.3 million in cash.

He said it was the first major narcotics trafficking indictment resulting from
an investigation by the strike force, which was created in 2014 to target
Mexican drug cartels that use the Los Angeles region as a primary hub for the
distribution of drugs across the country.

Julian Rocha, also known as "JRoc," 33, of Azusa, Froilan Villarreal, also known
as "DeL MoNtE," of Azusa, Maria Ernestina Limon Elenes, 64, of Azusa, Antonio
Orozco, also known as "El Sr," 45, of Long Beach, Martin Ruiz Saldana, of Santa
Ana, Oscar Arredondo, 53, of Bakersfield, and Audrey Rose Urrea, of Chula Vista,
were arrested Thursday.

Another suspect, Fernando Madueno Sanchez, was already in state prison on an
unrelated case. Federal prosecutors will seek to transfer him to federal
custody, according to Mrozek.

The five suspects arrested in Los Angeles and Orange counties entered not guilty
pleas during a Thursday arraignment in federal court. Mrozek said trial was
scheduled for Aug. 1.

The 22 suspects were charged with conspiracy to distribute drugs. Several were
charged with other crimes that include possession with intent to distribute
drugs and distribution of drugs, aiding and abetting, maintaining a
drug-involved premises and conspiracy to launder money.

Mrozek said one suspect was charged with illegally possessing seven handguns
while engaged in drug trafficking activities. Investigators found cocaine and
methamphetamine in the suspect's El Monte home.

The indictment doesn't say how the investigation started but revealed details
how the group operated. Authorities alleged Jeuri Elenes and four other suspects
would acquire the drugs in Mexico for resale in California and other parts of
the country. They also allegedly arranged for intermediaries to bring the drug
into the U.S. Members of the group used BlackBerrys to send messages about drug
trafficking and attempts to evade police, according to the indictment. They
talked about orders for drugs, when someone would turn up at the San Ysidro Port
of Entry with drugs hidden in their car, about law enforcement arresting some of
their drug smugglers, what bank accounts to deposit money into and remind a
member to pay the rent at an Azusa apartment.

Authorities also saw the messages. The indictment mentioned several drug
smuggling attempts ending with the carrier getting caught.

The indictment mentioned two San Gabriel Valley locations used to stash the
drugs - a suspect's home in El Monte and an apartment in the 700 block of North
Soldano Avenue in Azusa. Authorities alleged a member of the group moved into
the Azusa apartment on July 8, 2015 "to store and distribute controlled
substances at this location."

Mrozek said the investigation was led by the FBI in partnership with the Drug
Enforcement Administration, IRS Criminal Investigation, U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security Investigations, the U.S. Marshals
Service and the Azusa Police Department.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              492 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            March 30, 2017 Thursday

Assault suspect caught on video surrenders

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 179 words

ABSTRACT

Local briefs for 3-20

FULL TEXT

A Los Angeles woman caught on video allegedly trying to steal baby formula from
a Manhattan Beach supermarket surrendered to police after seeing her photograph
on the news, police said Wednesday.

Latheda September Butler, 20, also is suspected of beating a witness in the head
with a metal steering wheel lock as she made her escape, police said.

Manhattan Beach police detectives last week released photographs from the Jan. 4
crime caught on security video. During the crime, two women allegedly tried to
shoplift items from the Ralphs supermarket at 2700 N. Sepulveda Blvd.

A witness followed them outside to try to get their license plate number. One
woman became irate and struck the witness in the head with the metal club,
police said.

The women drove away.

Butler saw herself on KCAL Channel 9 on Monday and turned herself at the Los
Angeles Police Department's 77th Division station.

Butler pleaded not

guilty Wednesday in Torrance court to one count each of assault with a deadly
weapon and attempted petty theft, prosecutors said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              493 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 12, 2017
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OVER ON DIGITAL

SECTION: TV LIFE;NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 819 words


OVER ON DIGITAL 5staR 6.00 Teleshopping 8.00 According to Jim 8.20 Gilmore Girls
9.05 Access 9.15 Milkshake! 11.00 Access 11.05 Dance Moms 1.00 Can't Pay? We'll
Take It Away 3.00 Neighbours 3.30 Home and Away 4.00 The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air
5.00 According to Jim 6.00 Neighbours 6.30 Home and Away 7.00 The Fresh Prince
of Bel-Air 8.00 FILM: The Fifth Element (1997) Sci-fi adventure. 10.30 Fresh Off
the Boat 11.30 FILM: I Love You, Man (2009) Comedy.

1.40 Star 2.40 Channel Zero: No-End House 3.30 8 Simple Rules 5Usa 6.00
Teleshopping 9.00 Catch a Contractor 9.20 Remington Steele 10.10 Castle 11.10
Law & Order 1.05 CSI: NY 2.05 NCIS 3.00 Castle 4.00 Remington Steele 5.00 Law &
Order 7.00 NCIS. An agent's body is found badly burned. 8.00 NCIS 9.00 NCIS: Los
Angeles 10.00 Law & Order: Special Victims Unit 10.55 Law & Order: Special
Victims Unit. The team targets a photographer. 11.55 Bull 12.55 CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation 1.55 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 2.50 Chicago PD 3.50 Access
4.00 Teleshopping ItV2 6.00 The Cube: Celebrity Special 6.45 Totally Bonkers
Guinness World Records 7.10 Dinner Date 8.00 Emmerdale 8.30 You've Been Framed!
Gold 9.30 Ellen DeGeneres 10.20 Dinner Date 11.20 Dress to Impress 12.20
Emmerdale 12.50 You've Been Framed! Gold Top 100 Senior Moments 1.50 Ellen
DeGeneres 2.45 Jeremy Kyle 6.00 You've Been Framed! Gold 8.00 Two and a Half Men
9.00 Family Guy 9.30 Ghosted 10.00 American Dad! 10.30 Family Guy 12.25 American
Dad! 12.50 Celebrity Juice 1.40 Scorpion SKY ONE 7.00 Zoo Tales 8.00 Micro
Monsters with David Attenborough 8.30 Send in the Dogs Australia 9.00 The Dog
Whisperer 10.00 David Attenborough's Conquest of the Skies 11.00 Modern Family
12.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 1.00 Hawaii Five-0 3.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 4.00 Stargate
SG-1 5.00 The Simpsons 5.30 Futurama 6.30 The Simpsons 8.00 Supergirl 9.00 A
League of Their Own 10.00 Bounty Hunters 10.45 Sick Note 11.45 The Simpsons
12.45 PL Greatest Games 1.00 The Force: North East 2.00 Ross Kemp on Gangs SKY
ATLANTIC 6.00 The Guest Wing 7.00 The British 8.00 Fish Town 9.00 The West Wing
11.00 House 12.00 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 1.00 Without a Trace 2.00 Blue
Bloods 3.00 The West Wing 5.00 House 7.00 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 8.00
Blue Bloods 9.00 Alan Partridge's Mid Morning Matters 10.00 Curb Your Enthusiasm
10.40 Last Week Tonight with John Oliver 11.15 Real Time with Bill Maher 12.25
Vice Principals 1.00 The Deuce 2.10 Californication 3.20 House 4.15 The West
Wing FILM4 11.00 The Reckless Moment (1949) Drama.

12.40 The Nebraskan (1953) Western. 2.00 Decision at Sundown (1957) Western.
3.35 Comanche Station (1960) Western, starring Randolph Scott. 5.05 Guadalcanal
Diary (1943) World War Two drama, starring Preston Foster. 6.55 Dante's Peak
(1997) Disaster movie, starring Pierce Brosnan. 9.00 47 Ronin (2013) Fantasy
adventure, starring Keanu Reeves. 11.15 Lockout (2012) Sci-fi thriller, starring
Guy Pearce. 1.05 About Elly (2009) Drama.

SKY LIVING 6.00 60 Minute Makeover 7.00 Obese: A Year to Save My Life USA 8.00
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation 9.00 Criminal Minds 11.00 Highway Patrol 12.00
Road Wars 1.00 Stop, Search, Seize 2.00 Nothing to Declare 4.00 CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation 5.00 Criminal Minds 7.00 My Kitchen Rules: US. New series 8.00
Elementary 9.00 Criminal Minds 10.00 Blindspot 11.00 Criminal Minds 12.00
Stalker 1.00 Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders 2.00 Road Wars 3.00 My
Kitchen Rules: US e4 6.00 Hollyoaks 7.00 Charmed 9.00 Rules of Engagement 10.00
Black-ish 11.00 How I Met Your Mother 12.00 New Girl 1.00 The Big Bang Theory
2.00 The Goldbergs 3.00 How I Met Your Mother 4.00 New Girl 5.00 The Goldbergs
6.00 The Big Bang Theory 7.00 Hollyoaks 7.30 Streetmate 8.00 The Big Bang Theory
9.00 Made in Chelsea. Liv and Digby's fledgling romance blossoms. 10.00 Tattoo
Fixers at Halloween 11.05 The Big Bang Theory 12.05 Rude Tube: Rude Zoo 1.10
Made in Chelsea CBS ACTION 6.00 Teleshopping. Home retail. 9.00 JAG 10.00 The
District 11.00 Diagnosis Murder 12.00 Bonanza 2.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 3.00 NCIS
4.00 CSI: Miami 5.00 NCIS: Los Angeles. A naval seaman and an arms dealer are
found dead. 6.00 The District. Gang warfare breaks out. 7.00 Diagnosis Murder
8.00 Walker, Texas Ranger 9.00 NCIS 10.00 NCIS: Los Angeles 11.00 Diagnosis
Murder 12.00 The District 12.55 NCIS 1.50 CSI: Miami 2.45 MacGyver 3.35 Walker,
Texas Ranger 4.20 The Streets of San Francisco CBS REALITY 6.00 Teleshopping
9.00 Judge Judy 9.50 Hoarders 10.45 Unsolved Mysteries 11.35 Neighbours at War
12.35 Judge Judy 3.10 Hoarders 4.05 Unsolved Mysteries 5.00 Judge Judy 7.00
Medical Detectives 8.00 Unsolved Mysteries 9.00 Karma's a B**** 10.00 Murder for
Hire. An examination of contract killings. 11.00 Voice of a Serial Killer 12.00
Crime Stories 1.00 Karma's a B**** 2.00 Murder for Hire 3.00 Teleshopping. Home
retail. 4.00 Raising Sextuplets 4.45 Cops 5.35 Rapid Response

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2017 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              494 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

'Dual Valley Bandit' sought in heists across two valleys

BYLINE: Brian Day; bday@scng.com @sgvcrime on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 192 words


LOS ANGELES >> The FBI is seeking a serial bank robber they've dubbed the Dual
Valley Bandit in connection with five robberies in the San Fernando and San
Gabriel valleys in recent weeks.

The bandit, who earned his moniker due to the geography of his heists, is
believed to be responsible for two bank robberies in Burbank andSouth Pasadenaon
May 15, and three more in North Hollywood, Woodland Hills and Tarzana on May 27,
according to FBI spokeswoman Laura Eimiller.

"During the robberies, the suspect passes a note demanding cash in several
denominations and makes oral demands for cash as well," Eimiller said in a
written statement.

No weapon has been seen during the crimes, officials said.

The Dual Valley Bandit is described as a white male, 5 feet 9 inches to 6 feet
tall, and 170 to 180 pounds.

He had stubble during the robberies and was neatly dressed in casual clothing,
including a baseball cap and Wayfarer-style sunglasses.

Anyone with information is urged to avoid direct contact with him and call 911
orthe FBI's 24-hour Los Angeles hotlineat 888-226-8443. Tips may also be
submitted anonymously toL.A. Regional Crime Stoppersat 800-222-8477.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              495 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 18, 2017 Saturday

Chicago Woman Allegedly Attempted to Smuggle Heroin and Marijuana through LAX
after Grammy Weekend in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 678  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office for the United States Attorneys, Northern District of
California has issued the following news release:



  A Chicago woman is facing a federal drug trafficking charge for allegedly
trying to smuggle at least a kilogram of heroin and four kilograms of marijuana
on a plane leaving Los Angeles International Airport.





 Beige White, 34, was arrested Wednesday at LAX by special agents with the Drug
Enforcement Administration. White made her initial court appearance yesterday
afternoon, at which time she was ordered held without bond and was directed to
appear for an arraignment on March 24, 2017.



 A criminal complaint filed Wednesday in United States District Court
specifically alleges that White attempted to smuggle approximately 2.28 pounds
of heroin and 9 pounds of marijuana through a security checkpoint at LAX on
Monday.



 The narcotics were discovered in White's luggage after she had checked in for a
Southwest Airlines flight to Chicago. After seeing something suspicious in one
of the bags during an image scan, the Transportation Security Administration
inspected the bag and discovered a clear plastic bag containing a substance
later determined to be heroin, as well as multiple sealed plastic bags
containing marijuana. Another piece of checked luggage in White's name also
allegedly contained marijuana.



 Los Angeles Airport Police responded to the scene, located White on her
Southwest flight, and escorted her off the airplane. During a subsequent
interview, White admitted to personnel with the Los Angeles Airport Police and
the DEA that the bags containing the heroin and marijuana were hers, and that
she and a friend had traveled from Chicago to attend events related to the
Grammy Awards. According to White's statement recounted in the affidavit in
support of the complaint, her friend had purchased her airline ticket and
offered to pay White $1,500 if she agreed to transport marijuana back to Chicago
on her return flight. During the interview, White denied knowledge of the heroin
that was in the same checked luggage as some of the marijuana, according to the
affidavit.



 Following the interview on Monday, White was released pending further federal
investigation. Federal prosecutors filed the criminal complaint on Wednesday,
and White was taken into custody before she boarded another flight to return
home.



 "The Department of Justice protects our nation's critical infrastructure, of
which airports and airlines are an important part," said United States Attorney
Eileen M. Decker. "Air travelers should not have to worry about drug smugglers
attempting to use planes as vehicles to commit crimes."



 The complaint charges White with possession with the intent to distribute a
controlled substance. If she were to be convicted of that charge, she would face
a statutory maximum sentence of 20 years in federal prison.



 A criminal complaint contains allegations that a defendant has committed a
crime. Every defendant is presumed to be innocent until and unless proven guilty
in court.



 The DEA Los Angeles International Airport Narcotics Task Force, an inter-agency
task force based at LAX, is conducting this investigation. The Task Force is
charged with providing a coordinated law enforcement effort to target criminal
enterprises that use the aviation system to transport large amounts of illicit
drugs and drug proceeds throughout the United States.



 In addition to the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Task Force is made up
of representatives from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Los Angeles
Airport Police, the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department. The Task Force also works closely with the United States
Customs and Border Protection and the Transportation Security Administration.



 The case against White is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney
Reema M. El-Amamy of the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              496 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 4, 2017 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Brown denies parole for ex-Mexican Mafia killer

BYLINE: Matt Hamilton

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 554 words


Gov. Jerry Brown denied parole Thursday for former Mexican Mafia shot-caller
Rene "Boxer" Enriquez, marking the third time that the governor has blocked the
convicted killer's bids for freedom.

In recent years, Enriquez, 55, disavowed his violent tenure with the Mexican
Mafia and became a darling of law enforcement by cooperating with investigators,
filming training videos and lecturing at conferences.

Brown commended Enriquez's efforts at self-improvement and noted that
prosecutors have praised his help, but ultimately decided Enriquez remains
unsuitable for release.

"Mr. Enriquez is personally responsible for an immeasurable amount of death and
destruction," Brown wrote in his decision. "I still do not believe that he has
shown an adequate understanding of why he was so willing to devote himself to
brutality and gang leadership."

Enriquez is serving a life term in Ironwood State Prison, about 100 miles east
of Palm Springs, for two murders committed in 1989. He ordered the killing of
Cynthia Gavaldon, a drug dealer he believed was stealing from him. He also
killed another Mexican Mafia member by injecting him with heroin, then shooting
him five times in the back of the head.

His criminal history also includes jailhouse attacks on other inmates --
including his admission to sexually assaulting a fellow inmate -- along with
drug sales, burglary and 23 counts of robbery.

State commissioners have thrice recommended Enriquez for parole, only to be met
by Brown's refusal. It will probably take about a year before he next returns
for another hearing, state corrections officials said.

In the last year, Enriquez has begun to publicly assert that he was physically
and sexually abused by family members, including his elder brother.

After joining the Mexican Mafia in 1985, he found a place where he could defeat
his brother: "I could be crazier than him, I could participate in more violence
than him, I could be more respected in the gang than him." He traced his career
of gang-related brutality to childhood trauma, and said shame prevented him from
acknowledging this before.

"Being completely powerless as a victim, I later became a perpetrator in attempt
to, I guess, gain control," he told a panel of parole commissioners this summer.

Brown acknowledged the difficulty of childhood abuse and how it explains
Enriquez's motive to join the Mexican Mafia. But he said the explanation failed
to account for his pursuit of violence and ascendance within the gang.

The governor cited a psychologist who concluded that the new sexual abuse
allegations cast doubt on Enriquez's credibility and indicate a moderate risk of
future violence.

In January 2015, Enriquez's unusually close relationship with law enforcement
became the subject of controversy after the LAPD ushered him to a downtown L.A.
event where he spoke privately to business leaders. The extensive security was
paid for with tax dollars, although the organizers offered to reimburse the city
after the event was covered by The Times and other media.

In his most recent parole hearing, Enriquez said that in the last 2 1/2 years,
he has striven to live the life of a normal inmate. He's denied offers to live
in federal custody, tried not to bask in the accolades from law enforcement, and
testified only twice in that time period.

--

matt.hamilton@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FORMER Mexican Mafia shot-caller Rene Enriquez, shown here in
2005, is serving a life term in Ironwood State Prison for two murders committed
in 1989.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Bob Chamberlin Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              497 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

The right approach to drones;
The LAPD seeks public input before deploying the devices. The Sheriff's
Department does not.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Editorial Desk; Part A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 775 words


The Los Angeles Police Department's slow and careful process for developing a
policy on how it will deploy drones is imperfect, but Chief Charlie Beck and his
department are approaching the question in the proper spirit, taking public
input and considering the many very serious concerns about drones being used for
unwarranted police snooping.

If only L.A. County Sheriff Jim McDonnell would take heed.

Both the LAPD and the Sheriff's Department have already acquired the small,
remote-controlled and camera-equipped devices that could prove valuable in
providing an aerial view of tense standoffs -- or could just as easily be
misused to ramp up intrusive public surveillance, ostensibly in the name of
crime prevention. McDonnell unveiled his program in January as a done deal and
has deployed one drone despite criticism from members of the Sheriff Civilian
Oversight Commission, who want publicly vetted standards for using the
equipment.

Beck, by contrast, has sworn off drone flights pending the drafting of
guidelines and a series of public meetings, and amid demonstrations by activists
who oppose any use of the devices in their belief -- not altogether
unreasonable, given how some departments have used red-light cameras and
license-plate readers -- that once police have them they will be prone to misuse
them. The LAPD presented its drone proposal to the civilian Police Commission on
Tuesday and reiterated that the drones won't fly until that panel signs off on
deployment guidelines that have yet to be drafted.

That process is important. It demonstrates that the Police Department
understands public concern over new technologies and their penchant to erode
privacy, especially when wielded by armed government officers with powers to
arrest, and by a department with a history of compiling dossiers not merely on
criminal suspects but on political enemies and individuals holding controversial
opinions. The process also underscores the LAPD's relationship with its civilian
overseers on the commission, which at least in name are collectively in charge
of the department and dictate its policy.

The Police Commission has already sought public input on the use of a different
recording technology: body cameras, which were once widely embraced by police
critics as a tool to provide an unbiased view of shootings, arrests or other
police encounters. In a cautionary note for the LAPD's drone ambitions, many
supporters of body cameras now reject them on the argument that police exercise
too much control over the video before the public sees it.

Tools are just tools, whether they are body cameras, drones or flashlights, and
are intrinsically neither good nor bad without carefully crafted, publicly
reviewed and strictly enforced rules for using them. Such rules should be
subject to periodic review, as should each use of a drone. The benefits of the
technology should be weighed against not just the monetary costs but the
potential for impingement on civil liberties, and the burden should fall on law
enforcement to make the case for deploying it.

Without such rules and processes, even older tools are subject to abuse, as was
the case more than a decade ago when LAPD officers improperly used their heavy
flashlights as batons. Much time was spent over replacement flashlight models,
but the process was important and won back a measure of the community support
that the department had lost after more and more cases surfaced of officers
beating suspects with their old-style flashlights.

The LAPD could improve its drone process by making its proposed guidelines
public before asking for input, then revising them as appropriate, as many times
as necessary. Without that step, public meetings become a sort of suggestion box
-- not without value, but not as useful as they could be.

Like Beck's department, McDonnell's has an oversight panel -- but one that is
less than a year old, has no enforcement powers and is still figuring out its
role. McDonnell launched a one-year drone pilot project without waiting for
commission input. The law entitled him to do that. Good judgment and political
acumen, however, would have dictated a different course.

Last month, after testimony and public input, a majority of the sheriff's
oversight commissioners called for grounding McDonnell's drone pending further
study. The department has relied on a survey showing public support for drone
use, but such surveys are no substitute for careful vetting by an oversight body
of deployment guidelines. McDonnell would be wise to follow the LAPD's lead in
grounding his drone pending a process that invites meaningful public input and
oversight.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              498 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             August 25, 2017 Friday

Criminal justice reforms have not increased crime

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 707 words


As much as some politicians, police unions and pundits want it to be true, crime
isn't out of control in California. In fact, crime rates are about as low as
they have ever been in the past 50 years.

On Aug. 17, the state attorney general released statewide crime data for 2016.
Overall, the violent crime rate ticked up 4.1 percent compared with 2015 and
property crime fell by 2.9 percent.

For every 100,000 Californians, there were 443.9 violent crimes in 2016 and
2,554.5 property crimes. While any amount of crime is a problem, it's important
to step back and assess the numbers in context.

Since 2010, the violent crime rate per 100,000 Californians has barely changed,
rising from 439.3 to 443.9. Meanwhile, the property crime rate per 100,000 fell
from 2,630 to 2,544.

That is after the passage and implementation of Assembly Bill 109, Proposition
36 and Proposition 47, significant criminal justice reforms that helped drive
down the state prison population from about 150,000 at the start of 2010 to
about 115,000 today.

A review of crime trends since 2011, the year AB 109 was passed, shows that,
after an increase in 2012, crime hit all-time lows in 2013 and 2014, ticking up
again in 2015 and dropping back down in 2016.

To put the 2016 crime rates in further perspective, the violent crime rate per
100,000 in 2006, when the prison population peaked at 163,000, was 535.6 and 10
years before that was 848.2, numbers which reveal how low the state's 2016
figure of 443.9 is.

Likewise, despite all the rhetoric about Proposition 47 letting drug addicts and
thieves loose to steal whatever they want, the state's 2016 property crime rate
is half or less than half of what it was in any year before 1995. It was lower
in 2016 than any year in the past 50 years other than 2014, when it hit the
record low of 2,459 per 100,000.

As low as crime is, you wouldn't know it based on much of the rhetoric thrown
around about California's supposedly soft-on-crime policies.

In a video announcing his run for governor, Travis Allen asserted that "crime is
on the rise in every major market" and blamed criminal justice reforms.
Similarly, after the shooting of police Officer Keith Boyer, Sen. Jeff Stone,
R-Temecula, and Whittier Police Chief Jeff Piper took the opportunity to attack
Proposition 47 and AB 109. "You're passing these propositions; you're creating
these laws that are raising crime," said Piper.

Such assertions would be significant if they were true. But they're not. It
turns out, you don't need to throw people in state prisons, at an annual cost of
over $75,000 per inmate, for low-level theft and drug offenses.

But this apparent revelation threatens those with a vested interest in the
public misperceiving levels of crime as higher than they really are.

Recently, Robert Sass, vice president of the Association for Los Angeles Deputy
Sheriffs, told the Los Angeles Daily News that Proposition 47 "increases crime,
and it is simply reckless." Of course the vice president of a public safety
union would say that. With crime near historic lows, it's hard to justify
current spending priorities, which remain unduly skewed toward arresting and
imprisoning people, instead of preventing crime or making it possible for former
offenders to reintegrate into society.

Without hysteria over crime, how else could the law enforcement lobby justify
its contracts, pensions and assorted legal protections?

Despite large drops in our prison population, corrections spending is set to
surpass $11.2 billion this year, up from $9.8 billion in 2011-12. Much of that
is due to a lucrative contract awarded to the prison guard union, adding  $441
million in costs this fiscal year alone.

Are we any safer or better off because of that? Of course not.

Unsurprisingly, the law enforcement lobby continues to oppose almost every
criminal justice reform.

The group's efforts have held up needed bail and sentencing reform efforts like
SB 10 by Sen. Bob Hertzberg and SB 180 by Sen. Holly Mitchell.

The more we stick to facts, rather than self-serving myths, the safer we'll be
and the more just our justice will be.

Sal Rodriguez may be reached at: salrodriguez@scng.com Editor's note: Charles
Krauthammer is taking time off. His column will return Sept. 8.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              499 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            February 24, 2017 Friday

Boy freed in off-duty cop gunfire incident

BYLINE: Chris Haire, Scott Schwebke and Alma Fausto; Staff Writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1116 words

ABSTRACT

OCR-L-ANASHOOT-0224. A 13-year-old boy arrested Tuesday after a confrontation
with an off-duty Los Angeles police officer who discharged his gun - a scene
caught be several cell phone videos that went viral and became national news -
was released from Orange County Juvenile Hall the next day, Anaheim police said
on Thursday. Chris Haire/Jim Radcliffe. art shot. 35 inches.

FULL TEXT

ANAHEIM >> A 13-year-old boy arrested Tuesday after a confrontation with an
off-duty Los Angeles police officer who discharged his gun - a scene caught be
several cellphone videos that went viral and became national news - was released
from Orange County Juvenile Hall the next day, Anaheim police said on Thursday.

But he and everyone involved in the case could still be charged with crimes,
police said in a Thursday press conference.

The off-duty officer, who was not arrested, voluntarily went to the station that
same day and was processed - with some clothes items taken, his cheek swabbed
for DNA and his gun, a personal firearm separate from his

Los Angeles Police Department-issued one, confiscated, Anaheim Police Chief Raul
Quezada said.

Amid a series of protests and hundreds of telephone calls to City Hall, Anaheim
officials on Thursday tried to assuage the frustrations of many in the community
by promising to conduct an "impartial and thorough" investigation. Police
investigators expect to file their report with the Orange County District
Attorney's Office, which will weigh charges, within two weeks.

Quezada said that during the initial investigation there was "insufficient
evidence to arrest the officer," but, at the time, "clear and compelling
evidence" to arrest the 13-year-old.

"I wish the officer had awaited our officers' arrival," Quezada said. "As a
father and as a police chief, I, too, am disturbed by what I saw on the videos
posted on the internet. But as police chief, I am charged with enforcing the
law."

Meanwhile, L.A. police are conducting an administrative investigation into the
off-duty cop's actions, said LAPD Deputy Chief Michel Moore, and any punishment
would likely come from the Police Commission by way of a recommendation from
Chief Charlie Beck.

"This process is not something that happens overnight," Moore said. "We need to
ensure we gather as much information as exists."

The 13-year-old was initially arrested on suspicion of threatening to shoot the
off-duty officer. A 15-year-old was also arrested on suspicion of battery and
released Tuesday to his parents.

Tuesday's confrontation with the LAPD officer and the boy began over ongoing
issues with teenagers walking across the officer's property, Anaheim police Sgt.
Daron Wyatt said.

The off-duty cop, it appears, confronted the 13-year-old and then tried to
detain him for allegedly making threats about shooting him around 2:40 p.m.
Monday in the 1600 block of West Palais Road, near Euclid Street, Quezada said.

Videos surfacing Wednesday on social media shows the off-duty officer struggling
with the 13-year-old, and several other teenagers who were aggressive with the
officer, before discharging a handgun. It was unclear if he fired on purpose;
the shot appeared to go downward, and no one was struck.

The altercation may have started because of a misunderstanding between the boy
and the officer, said Gregory Perez, 16, who said he witnessed the incident.

"The little kid said, 'I'm going to sue you,' and then the guy thought he said,
'I'm going to shoot you,' " the 16-year-old said. "That's when he started
grabbing the little kid."

It is unclear whether the off-duty officer identified himself as a cop. But
based on video evidence, in which voices can be heard debating whether he was
really a cop, "common sense" leads you to believe he probably identified himself
at some point, said Wyatt, the Anaheim police spokesman.

Police officers, even when off-duty, have the ability to arrest people; LAPD
officers have the option to carry firearms when off-duty, a department
spokesperson said. The officer's personal firearm was legal and "there's no
question about his ability to carry it," Wyatt said.

A boy who said he was the 15-year-old arrested for assault and battery told
Orange County Register on Thursday that he punched the officer to get him to
release the younger boy. "When he shot, he almost hit my foot," the teen said.
"Then I ran away."

It is still unclear why the officer fired his gun, but Wyatt said that the
witnesses, including juveniles shown in the video, said in interviews that the
officer never pointed it at anyone and they didn't feel threatened.

"That doesn't mean he couldn't be charged with negligent discharge of a
firearm," Wyatt said.

In the Anaheim neighborhood where the incident played out on Tuesday, tensions
remained high on Thursday.

The residential area had been rattled the night before by rowdy protesters who
broke windows and vandalized homes while demanding the arrest of the off-duty
policeman. Twenty-three people were arrested among the several hundred
protesters who had gathered.

That largely peaceful protest devolved into chaos at times, with house windows
and vehicle windshields broken, and graffiti sprayed on walls and a garage
calling police "pigs" and calling for people to "kill cops."

Epithets were hurled as police in riot gear formed a scrimmage line. Others
called for peace and denounced a system they view as inherently racist.

"I don't call them heroes, I call them killers," said Claudia Garcia of Anaheim.
"Every time I've called them, they haven't done anything."

On Thursday, as neighbors gathered in their yards, Anaheim police officers
remained in patrol cars outside of the house. They also guarded the officer's
home against demonstrators.

Joe Gulrich said the shooting took place in his yard about a half-block from the
officer's home. Wednesday night police officers spirited Gulrich and his wife to
a friend's house as protesters moved in. "I got the hell out," said Gulrich,
76."It was ugly."

When Gulrich returned home around 12:30 a.m. Wednesday, he found that protesters
had thrown a brick through a bedroom window and spray-painted a profanity on his
garage door, apparently believing the officer lived there.

The incident had echoes of a similar one five years ago, when a pair of police
shootings happened on back-to-back days and led to rowdy protests in front of
City Hall.

"The world's eyes are on Anaheim again because of a confrontation between a
police officer and young people," said Anaheim Councilman Jose Moreno. "There
has been so much work that people have put in to create substantive and
meaningful relationships to bring people and neighborhoods together.

Staff writer Joseph Pimentel contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              500 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            January 13, 2017 Friday

Robbery suspects arrested after pursuit Hiker dies in fall off hiking trail One
injured in drive-by shooting Man fights off would-be robbers with lamp

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 565 words

ABSTRACT

SGVNG crime and public safety briefs for Friday, Jan. 13, 2017.

FULL TEXT

Two men accused of robbing a San Gabriel cell phone store on Wednesday afternoon
led police on a high-speed chase before being cornered and apprehended in Los
Angeles, authorities said.

An officer first tried to stop the suspects' car about 5:51 p.m. for a routine
traffic violation in the area ofSan Gabriel Boulevard, south of Valley
Boulevard, San Gabriel Police Lt. Tony Hernandez said.

The driver failed to pull over, instead starting a chase during which he drove
recklessly and at high speed down the westbound 10 Freeway, he said.

As the pursuit was ongoing, police received information that the car was
believed to have been involved in a robbery that occurred about 5:45 p.m. at a
cell phone store in the800 block of Valley Boulevard, according to the
lieutenant.

Two men with at least one gun had entered the store and fled with about 20
phones, he said. It was not immediately clear if cash was also taken.

Officers continued chasing the suspects as theyexited the freeway at Mission
Roadin Los Angeles and crashed into another motorist, Hernandez said. The two
suspects abandoned the car and continued to flee on foot. The other driver
involved in the crash was unhurt.

The fleeing suspects ran directly into a commercial property enclosed by a
6-foot-tall, razor-wire-topped fence, he said. They surrendered once they
realized they were trapped.

An Altadena man died Wednesday night when he fell about 60 feet over the side of
the Sam Merrill Trail, authorities said.

The sheriff's Altadena station posted on its Facebook page that the man was a
local hiker instrumental in forming Wednesday night hikes. He was hiking down
from Echo Mountain and fell.

Deputies think another hiker who was with the man called authorities.

Coroner's spokesman Craig Harvey identified the man as 71-year-old Lee Brian
Tracy.NORWALK

A Norwalk man suffered a gunshot wound to the arm after a drive-by shooting
Wednesday.

It occurred in the 11000 block of Hermosura Street at 10:30 p.m.

Sgt. Jaime Alvarez of the sheriff's Norwalk station said a black vehicle pulled
up near a 46-year-old man. He said one of the car's occupants produced a gun and
fired four rounds at the man. The victim was struck once in the arm. The vehicle
sped away from the scene. Alvarez said the man was in stable condition when
taken to a hospital.

A Pasadena man used a lamp to fight off two would-be armed robbers, who then
crashed their getaway car while fleeing the scene and ran on Thursday afternoon,
police said.

The incident unfolded about 3 p.m., Pasadena police Lt. John Luna said.

A man in his 20s was standing in a driveway in the1000 block of North Michigan
Avenuewhen two suspects approached in a car and stopped in the street, he said.
Both suspects got out of the car. One of them brandished a knife "in a
threatening manner" and demanded the victim empty his pockets.

The victim picked up a lamp that happened to be nearby and used it to defend
himself, Luna said.

The robbers punched him in the face during the fight that ensued before fleeing
empty handed.

Luna said the robbers got back into their car and sped off, but collided into
another car being driven by a woman at Michigan Avenue and Mountain Street, Luna
said. They abandoned their car and continued fleeing on foot. They were not
found, though police seized the car as evidence.


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
