
                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            October 16, 2015 Friday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

L.A. BILL-ONEY Crime stats 'misclassified' during Bratt's tenure

BYLINE: BY LARRY McSHANE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS With Joseph Stepansky

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 345 words


THE LOS ANGELES Police Department misclassified 14,000 violent crimes between
2005-12, listing the assaults as minor offenses and skewing crime figures
downward.

The erroneous numbers covered five years when current NYPD Commissioner Bill
Bratton, a leading proponent of the CompStat crime tracking system, was running
the LAPD.

An analysis of L.A. crime statistics by the Los Angeles Times exposed the
inaccurate classification of crimes between 2005-12 - which includes the last
five years of Bratton's run atop the department.

According to the paper, the correct numbers show violent crime in Los Angeles
was actually 7% higher than reported over that stretch.

The number of serious assaults increased by 16%, the Times reported. But even
with the revised data, Los Angeles still saw an overall reduction in violent
crime during the period.

Bratton, brought back by Mayor de Blasio for a second term with the NYPD, ran
the LAPD from 2002-09. The inaccurate crime figures came as the Los Angeles
police trumpeted its crime reductions.

A spokesman for the NYPD declined to comment on the misclassifications and
deferred all questions to the LAPD. Los Angeles police brass confirmed there
were errors in the crime statistics and said they're committed to fixing the
problems that produced the inaccurate figures.

"We know this can have a corrosive effect on the public's trust of our
reporting," LAPD Assistant Chief Michel Moore told the L.A. Times. "That's why
we are committed to . . . eliminating as much of the error as possible."

The Times cited two examples of misclassisified attacks. In the first, April
Taylor plunged a 6-inch knife into her boyfriend's stomach during a 2009 fight
in their home.

Though she was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon, the attack was logged
as a "simple assault" and never included in LAPD serious crime data.

In a 2012 incident, a suspect named William Wisdom was convicted of brandishing
a firearm after pulling a gun on a man. The incident was treated as a minor
crime rather than a serious violation, as mandated by the department.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The LAPD wrongly categorized many violent crimes as minor while Bill
Bratton (right) led force. AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.


                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

USPTO grants trade mark "LOS ANGELES REGIONAL CRIME STOPPERS" to Los Angeles
Crime Stoppers CORPORATION (CALIFORNIA)

LENGTH: 171  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Los Angeles Crime Stoppers CORPORATION (CALIFORNIA), has been granted trademark
(4710937) titled as "LOS ANGELES REGIONAL CRIME STOPPERS" from the United States
Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 045. US 100 101. G & S: Security services for the protection of
property and (INDIVIDUAL)s, namely, operation of a telephone hotline offering
monetary rewards for anonymous tips that result in the ultimate arrest and
prosecution in previously unsolved crimes; provision of a website featuring
information regarding personal safety and physical security, detective
investigations, and crime occurrence data, and offering monetary rewards for
anonymous tips that result in the ultimate arrest and prosecution in previously
unsolved crimes; personal and social services rendered to meet the needs of
(INDIVIDUAL)s in the nature of crime victim services, namely, supportive
emotional counseling; detective investigation services related to the physical
safety of persons and entities. FIRST USE: 20090802.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              3 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Los Angeles sheriff says new law plays 'significant' role in crime rise

BYLINE: Tami Abdollah; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 318 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Sheriff: New law plays 'significant' role in crime rise,
disincentives treatment

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A recent change in California law making certain drug and
property crimes misdemeanors instead of felonies played "a significant role" in
the rising crime rate in Los Angeles County and has taken away the incentive for
addicts to seek treatment, Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Thursday.

In an interview, McDonnell also said legalizing marijuana for recreational use
is a bad idea and that recent public backlash against police over use of force
is having an impact on his agency, the largest sheriff's department in the
country.

Many in law enforcement have criticized Proposition 47, which voters passed last
November. To ease overcrowding in the prison system, it reduced the penalties
for shoplifting, forgery, fraud, petty theft and possession of small amounts of
drugs - including cocaine, heroin and methamphetamines.

So far this year the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department reports a 3.39
percent increase in violent crime and a 6.9 percent increase in property crime.

"We had 10 years of crime reductions, we were at 50-year lows in many areas on
crime statistics, and all of a sudden, right after November when 47 kicked in
that changed and fairly dramatically, very quickly," he said.

McDonnell said the law prevents authorities from leveraging the threat of a
felony charge to get addicts into treatment. As a result, county treatment rolls
are down 60 percent.

"People are no longer incarcerated, they're not in treatment, they're out
reoffending on the street," McDonnell said.

Proposition 47 came after California's 2011 prison realignment law, which pushed
many criminals into county jails to decrease state prison populations. Jails
previously housing only people awaiting trial or those sentenced to less than a
year now also hold more hardened criminals serving longer terms.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2015 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Today's Zaman (Turkey)

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

Crime on the rise in Los Angeles in first half of 2015

LENGTH: 365  words


The City of Los Angeles has seen a spike in crime in nearly every major category
for the first half of 2015, reversing the declining trend of the last dozen
years, after California recently reduced penalties for low-level and non-violent
offenses, officials said on Wednesday.

But the homicide rate in the nation's second-largest city continued to fall,
declining to 126 so far this year compared to 135 for the first six months of
2014, according to figures from the Los Angeles Police Department.

Mayor Eric Garcetti and Police Chief Charlie Beck said they were troubled by
increases in major crime in categories other than homicide, including robbery,
rape, burglary and car theft.

Beck told a news conference that a ballot measure approved by voters last year
to reduce criminal penalties throughout California for a wide class of
non-violent crimes, including drug possession and shoplifting, had contributed
to increased crime in the city.

The change in law has resulted in fewer such offenders being jailed in the Los
Angeles area. Law enforcement leaders have expressed concern that some people
who would otherwise be held behind bars after committing a crime will re-offend.

Major crimes were up 12.7 percent in the first half of 2015 with 54,993 total
incidents, according to figures released by the Los Angeles Police Department.

Among major crimes, the largest increase was seen in aggravated assaults, which
rose 26.3 percent to 6,073 incidents in the first six months of this year,
compared to 4,810 for the same period of last year.

quotWe're on track to have the lowest homicide rate the city has seen in modern
history, but homicide is just the tip of the crime iceberg,quot Beck told
reporters.

The increase in crime in Los Angeles comes as New York reports it falling in
several major categories this year. There were 9,176 assaults in the Big Apple
in the first half of 2015, compared to 9,958 a year earlier, the New York Police
Department said.

But murders rose to 164 from 150 in the first half of 2014.

Chicago, the nation's third-largest city, had 203 homicides through June 28 this
year, compared with 171 in the same period last year, according to the Chicago
Police Department.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Today's Zaman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

Los Angeles sheriff says new law plays 'significant' role in crime rise

BYLINE: Tami Abdollah; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 372 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Sheriff: New law plays 'significant' role in crime rise,
disincentives treatment

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A recent change in California law making certain drug and
property crimes misdemeanors instead of felonies played "a significant role" in
the rising crime rate in Los Angeles County and has taken away the incentive for
addicts to seek treatment, Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Thursday.

In an interview, McDonnell also said legalizing marijuana for recreational use
is a bad idea and that recent public backlash against police over use of force
is having an impact on his agency, the largest sheriff's department in the
country.

Many in law enforcement have criticized Proposition 47, which voters passed last
November. To ease overcrowding in the prison system, it reduced the penalties
for shoplifting, forgery, fraud, petty theft and possession of small amounts of
drugs - including cocaine, heroin and methamphetamines.

So far this year the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department reports a 3.39
percent increase in violent crime and a 6.9 percent increase in property crime.

"We had 10 years of crime reductions, we were at 50-year lows in many areas on
crime statistics, and all of a sudden, right after November when 47 kicked in
that changed and fairly dramatically, very quickly," he said.

McDonnell said the law prevents authorities from leveraging the threat of a
felony charge to get addicts into treatment. As a result, county treatment rolls
are down 60 percent.

"People are no longer incarcerated, they're not in treatment, they're out
reoffending on the street," McDonnell said.

Proposition 47 came after California's 2011 prison realignment law, which pushed
many criminals into county jails to decrease state prison populations. Jails
previously housing only people awaiting trial or those sentenced to less than a
year now also hold more hardened criminals serving longer terms. McDonnell said
one county inmate has a 42-year sentence.

"That's not something we're equipped to deal with effectively," McDonnell said.
"The state prison system has been sued and had consent decrees over it, and it's
predictable that as a result, we're going to have the same kind of lawsuits and
the same kind of damages."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              6 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

6 Los Angeles County crime numbers that make you feel a little safer

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 180 words


MONTEREY PARK - The number of homicides in areas patrolled by the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department declined by 10.5 percent in 2014, compared with the
previous year, according to statistics released today.

Sheriff Jim McDonnell, speaking at a news conference at sheriff s headquarters
in Monterey Park, said the the statistical comparisons between 2014 and 2013
included:

a 10.5 percent drop in the number of homicides: 149, compared with 164;

a 4.9 percent drop in overall incidents of violent crimes; and

a 6.2 percent drop in property crimes.

Five-year statistics also were released, comparing the years 2014 and 2009, and
showed:

a 26 percent drop in the number of homicides: 149, compared with 207;

a 20.7 percent drop in overall incidents of violent crimes; and

a 5.8 percent drop in property crimes.

Sheriff s deputies said the statistics include expanded patrol areas in Maywood
and Cudahy, which have covered by deputies assigned to the East Los Angeles
station since 2010.

The 119-page report is available at www.lasd.org under  Crime Prevention and
Information.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

China rights report says US "haunted by spreading guns", violent crimes

LENGTH: 319 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 26 June: The United States is haunted by spreading guns and frequent
occurrence of violent crimes, according to the Human Rights Record of the United
States in 2014 released by China on Friday [26 June].

According to the "Crime in the United States" released by the FBI, there were an
estimated 1,163,146 violent crimes reported to law enforcement in 2013, of which
14,196 are murders, 79,770 are rapes, 345,031 robberies and 724,149 aggravated
assaults, says the report, released by the Information Office of China's State
Council Information Office.

There were an estimated 367.9 violent crimes per 100,000 inhabitants in 2013 in
the United States, it says, adding that about 1,500 violent crimes were
registered a month in Los Angeles in 2014.

In 2014, Los Angeles's overall total of violent crime was up 7.6 percent by
early October, compared with the same time in 2013, the report cites The Los
Angeles Times as saying.

Meanwhile, gang violence in the United States was at an all time high, says the
report, adding that there were currently an estimated 1.7 million gang members
spread throughout the country.

The rampant use of guns was not contained. Though the FBI had launched federal
background checks to block groups like fugitives and felons, from buying
firearms, local law enforcement authorities did not report arrest warrants to
the database used to screen gun buyers, the report says, citing USA Today.

Consequently, tens of thousands of fugitives including those facing serious
charges can pass the background checks and bought firearms. Statistics showed
that the use of firearms was behind about 69 percent of the murders in the U.S.,
while for robberies, the figure was 40 percent, and for aggravated assaults,
21.6 percent, says the report.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0232gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Los Angeles sees  significant  increase in violent crime, LAPD says

BYLINE: Dakota Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


The amount of violent crime reported in Los Angeles rose by double digits last
year, officials said Monday, a spike that reverses an 11-year streak of falling
crime numbers in the city.

Violent crime, which includes rapes and aggravated assaults, rose 14.3 percent
last year, Los Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck said at a Monday
news conference. The rise in violence comes during Mayor Eric Garcetti s first
full year in office.

Acknowledging a  significant increase  in violent crimes, Beck attributed the
rise to three factors: increased accuracy of internal LAPD reporting, more
domestic abuse cases and more street fights.

As part of the violent crime spike, the LAPD reported a nearly 21 percent
increase in rapes in 2014, compared with the year earlier. There were 924 rapes
last year, compared with 764 a year earlier.

Beck referenced an increase in  acquaintance rapes  and mentioned  young people.
He provided no other information on why the city saw more acquaintance rape
cases last year.

A breakout of 2014 crime numbers by region wasn t available Monday, the LAPD
said. For the year ending Dec. 27, the San Fernando Valley saw violent crime
rise 11.3 percent and gang crime grow 8 percent, the LAPD reported earlier this
month . The Valley increase mirrors the citywide trend.

Still, questions remain about whether the city is truly more violent or if the
LAPD is merely now accurately reporting violent crimes. The spike in violent
crime comes after the Los Angeles Times reported last summer the LAPD
inaccurately misclassified more than 1,000 violent crimes as less serious
crimes. Since then, the LAPD has changed its reporting approach, Beck has said.

Asked about the inaccurate crime statistics, Garcetti said Monday he would
support having an outside audit of crime numbers every few years.

But neither Garcetti nor Beck blamed the rise in crime solely on the LAPD s
inaccurate reporting standards.

This year went in the wrong direction,  Garcetti said.

To combat the rise in reported domestic abuse cases, Garcetti announced a
citywide expansion of the LAPD s Domestic Abuse Response Teams. The Mayor s Fund
of Los Angeles, an outside nonprofit run by Garcetti s team, will raise money to
pay for the $891,000 expansion.

The Mayor s Fund for Los Angeles will take the lead in raising the funds for the
expansion,  mayoral spokeswoman Vicki Curry wrote in an email.  We expect a
combination of private and philanthropic donations and government grants.

Beck and Garcetti also repeatedly praised figures that they said showed an
overall slowdown in crime compared with some past years. Aggravated assaults are
down 40 percent compared with 2005, according to a booklet distributed Monday.
Rapes are down 16.4 percent compared with 2005.

Officials didn t explain why they chose to compare 2014 numbers with 2005 s
data.

Property crime also dropped in 2014 by 4.6 percent compared with a year earlier.
That category of crimes includes burglary, motor vehicle theft and larceny,
which all dropped in 2014, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 24, 2015 Thursday

Fudge, no! DeB rips Ray on stats

BYLINE: Yoav Gonen and Michael Gartland

SECTION: Sports Extra; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 200 words


Mayor de Blasio on Wednesday defended the NYPD against suggestions by former
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly that the NYPD is fudging stats in order to keep
crime numbers down.

Despite a slight uptick in murders this year compared with 2014, officials are
projecting another overall decrease in major crimes by month's end.

"Bill Bratton is the gold standard. He certifies - 100 percent - we're using the
exact same standard to track crime that Ray Kelly used," de Blasio said on radio
station 1010 WINS, referring to his police commissioner. "It was inherited from
Ray Kelly. It's the exact same set of metrics. And so, I'm surprised to see
Commissioner Kelly raising those questions."

But the Los Angeles Police Department fudged violent-crime stats - including
during a period when Bratton led that department, a Los Angeles Times analysis
released earlier this year claimed.

On Tuesday, Kelly questioned the NYPD's latest crime statistics under the
current administration.

"I think there are some issues with the numbers that are being put out," Kelly
said in a radio interview on AM 970. "I think there's some redefinition going on
as to what amounts to a shooting, that sort of thing."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Burbank Leader (Glendale, California)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

New ads decry violent crimes

BYLINE: Chad Garland, Burbank Leader, Glendale, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


Feb. 17--A new advertising campaign was launched in Burbank this week to bring
awareness to a state program that helps victims of violent crimes. The ads,
which are appearing on Burbank Bus vehicles, feature stark, sometimes bloody,
depictions of victims -- women, children and the elderly.

"We took a darker look," said Jon Myers, a spokesman for the California Victim
Compensation Program, the state agency that launched the effort.

The program, which is funded through restitution payments from criminal
offenders, provides compensation to victims for expenses related to a violent
crime, such as medical treatment, mental health counseling, relocation and job
retraining.

The campaign's goal, Myers said, is to reach out to the victims of crimes such
as sexual assault, domestic violence, child abuse, human trafficking, elder
abuse or assault in Los Angeles County who may not know about the financial
assistance available to them.

The ads will also be carried on Los Angeles DASH and Long Beach Transit buses.

In Los Angeles County, the program is currently providing about $16 million in
benefits to about 11,000 applicants, but that's only about 26% of the victims of
violent crimes here, Myers said. That's a large gap that the agency is seeking
to close.

Application rates in Orange County are around 30% of violent crime victims, and
some of the more sparsely populated regions of the state have rates of more than
60%, he added.

The campaign comes after a similar effort in the San Francisco Bay area last
fall that led to a rise in victim compensation applications, officials with the
program announced in a statement last week.

One ad features an image of an elderly woman lying on the ground as a hand
inside a latex glove checks her pulse. Her own hand is bruised and bloody.

Another ad features an image of a woman with tears welling up in her eyes, and
one of them has a purple-and-blue bruise. She has her fingers pressed together
over her lips, as if in prayer.

Elder abuse rates are rising, Myers said, but overall, victims of sexual assault
and domestic violence make up the largest share -- a third -- of applicants for
benefits in the county.

Christine Ramos, director of family violence services and transitional housing
at the Family Service Agency of Burbank, said some people think it doesn't
happen in Burbank, but "it absolutely does."

Victims who choose to escape from a domestic-violence situation typically lose
70% of their income, Ramos said.

"Any assistance they can have ... is obviously of great benefit," said Ramos,
adding that financial impacts include a "myriad of different things" such as
loss of jobs, the need to pay for child care and the expenses of relocation.

Financial insecurity can be a reason some victims stay in abusive situations or
the reason they return to such situations, she said.

But Ramos said that some victims of domestic abuse may not identify with images
of bruised and battered victims. Abuse can take many forms and pictures of
physical injuries may give a "false impression" about the complete picture of
domestic violence.

"If you don't fit that category [of abuse], you wouldn't necessarily recognize
yourself as a victim," Ramos said.

Burbank City Councilwoman Emily Gabel-Luddy, who has been involved with the
Burbank Domestic Violence Task Force, said victims come from families of all
income brackets, straight, gay and all races, but she said "there's no excuse
for domestic violence."

"We should have it down to zero," she said.

___ (c)2015 the Burbank Leader (Glendale, Calif.) Visit the Burbank Leader
(Glendale, Calif.) at www.burbankleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150217-1BU-New-ads-decry-violent-crimes-0217-20150217

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1BU


                         Copyright 2015 Burbank Leader


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          December 30, 2015 Wednesday

'Glee' actor arrested on child porn charge

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 221 words


SUNLAND >> Mark Salling, best known for his role as Noah "Puck" Puckerman on the
hit TV show "Glee," was arrested Tuesday at his Sunland home on alleged
possession of child pornography, Los Angeles police said.

The 33-year-old actor was arrested by officers assigned to the L.A. Regional
Internet Crimes Against Children Task force, a Los Angeles police spokeswoman
said.

"His arrest did not come about as part of an online sting," LAPD Lt. Andrea
Grossman said. "Salling's arrest came about through a tip from a confidential
informant."

Grossman is the officer in charge of the Internet Crimes Against Children Task
force, which is based in Long Beach and operates within Homeland Security.

The arresting detectives confiscated "electronic media" during Salling's arrest,
but she said details of what was confiscated must come from the Los Angeles
District Attorney's office.

The L.A. Regional Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, she said, was one
of 61 such federal task forces across the country. The L.A. task force covers
Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles, Orange and San Bernardino counties and
includes 69 law enforcement agencies, Grossman said.

Salling has been booked and processed on the charge, according to jail records.
He's currently being held in lieu of $20,000 bail. No arraignment date has been
posted.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                  DONOR: Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Superior Court, Van Nuys
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Los Angeles Superior


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Superior
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Los Angeles County Bar Association


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles County Bar Association
DONOR TYPE:  Other

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                    DONOR: Los Angeles Lawyers Philharmonic


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,500 - 9,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Los Angeles Lawyers Philharmonic
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            December 14, 2015 Monday

LA County to help some reduce felony convictions under Prop 47

BYLINE: Sarah Favot

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words


Los Angeles County will take steps to help residents who qualify get certain
felony convictions reduced to misdemeanors under Proposition 47.

The Board of Supervisors decided Tuesday to collect data on the estimated
690,000 people in Los Angeles County who qualify under the ballot initiative
approved by voters in 2014. The board also agreed to establish a task force to
connect those people with jobs, job training and mental health and substance
abuse treatment, as well as to investigate whether the measure has saved the
county money.

The proposal, authored by Supervisors Hilda Solis and Mark Ridley-Thomas, was
unanimously approved.

Solis said because the conviction reduction does not automatically apply, but
rather residents must file a petition with the court, the county needs to put a
system in place to reach out to residents.

It is our job to make it work,  she said.

Prop. 47 allows those who have been convicted or charged with six felony
non-violent and non-serious drug and property crimes to be reduced to
misdemeanors. Reducing felony convictions to misdemeanors removes barriers to
job opportunities, federal programs like student aid and voting.

These men and women come out of jail and find themselves homeless, untreated and
many unemployed,  Solis said.  Is it any wonder that they continue to commit
crimes?

Public Defender Robert Brown said his office has processed 16,702 petitions
under Prop. 47 that have been granted. His office is processing 690,000 more
petitions.

A representative from the alternate public defender s office said their office
has processed 4,000 petitions that have been approved.

Supervisor Sheila Kuehl questioned the rhetoric that links rising crime rates to
the passage of Prop. 47. She said no data has proven the connection. She pointed
to San Diego County, which has seen a drop in crime and has a robust re-entry
system, she said.

In a Los Angeles Times editorial , L.A. County Sheriff Jim McDonnell said
because funding for treatment does not become available until next year, the
county has seen an increase in property and violent crimes as a result of Prop.
47.

CEO Sachi Hamai said she will bring a recommendation to the board next week that
will direct the county s state legislative representatives to pursue county-
sponsored legislation that would extend or eliminate the sunset deadline of
November 2017 for residents to have their convictions reclassified.

The county auditor-controller will also report back on any savings since Prop.
47 and how those savings could be reallocated to the public defender s office to
expeditiously process applications before the deadline.

Antonovich questioned whether those charged with misdemeanors that were former
felony crimes would attend treatment if they were not required by a judge.

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti praised the board s action and said his Office
of Reentry would work with the county.

Our communities grow stronger when we show mercy, compassion and understanding
for those who have made mistakes in life and deserve a second chance,  Garcetti
said in a statement.  It is also our mandate to help them rebuild their lives
after incarceration, and today L.A. County took a tremendous step forward on the
principle of restorative justice.

Ingrid Archie, who said she was resentenced under Prop. 47 and released 90 days
ago, said she voluntarily joined the treatment center A New Way of Life. She has
a job, enrolled in college and is in the process of reunifying with her
children.

If we are provided those resources, we will take advantage of it,  Archie said.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti tackles rising violent crime in State of the City
address

BYLINE: Dakota Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 643 words


Amid an uptick in violent crime in Los Angeles, Mayor Eric Garcetti used his
annual State of the City address Tuesday to announce several new police
initiatives and an expansion of the city s anti-gang programs.

Saying he wants to build  greater trust  between police officers and the
community, Garcetti announced the creation of a new Los Angeles Police
Department division focused on relationship-based policing.

Also, LAPD s Metropolitan Division, which oversees policing throughout the city,
will nearly double in size, Garcetti said.

Garcetti s address, delivered at the Valley Performing Arts Center in
Northridge, comes amid a sharp rise in aggravated assaults and rapes in Los
Angeles. Violent crime rose by 14.3 percent last year, reversing an 11-year
streak of falling crime numbers in the city.

The spike follows increased accuracy of internal LAPD reporting, more domestic
abuse cases and more street fights, police say. The rise also comes after a Los
Angeles Times investigation suggested that crimes were misclassified by the LAPD
in recent years.

Garcetti didn t mention any of those factors during Tuesday s address but vowed
to  own  the spike in crime.

The mayor s second State of the City address comes as the freshman glow of his
new administration fades and he gears up for re-election in 2017.

Jaime Regalado, emeritus professor of political science at Cal State L.A., said
the mayor could face criticism if crime statistics don t fall and credited
Garcetti for doubling efforts on community policing.

There s a newness in that approach,  Regalado said.

Speaking before a crowd of Los Angeles City Hall staffers, business leaders and
students, Garcetti mentioned the recent killings of unarmed black men in
Ferguson, Staten Island, and now, North Charleston,  and cited Los Angeles
body-camera program for officers.

His 2015-2016 budget includes an additional $5.5 million for the city s
anti-gang program, he said, while the  Summer Night Lights  program, another
anti-gang initiative, will expand to the school year.

The mayor delivered his speech less than one week before he releases his city
budget. Garcetti spokesman Jeff Millman said no new police officers will be
hired as part of the initiatives announced Tuesday. Instead, police officers
will be shuffled around, Millman said.

I am pleased with the support Mayor Garcetti has shown for public safety,  LAPD
Chief Charlie Beck said in a statement released Tuesday night.  The year ahead
will prove to be a break-out year in community partnerships and relationship
building for the LAPD.

Comment from the police union on Garcetti s new proposals wasn t immediately
available.

Several city workers from SEIU Local 721 protested outside the mayor s speech
Tuesday, part of a group of unions currently negotiating with City Hall over a
new contract.

Coral Itzcalli, spokeswoman for SEIU Local 721, said the union wants the city to
hire more workers.

We can t get back to basics without basic city services,  Itzcalli said.

Garcetti avoided any mention of the contract negotiations in his speech. He
instead focused on the accomplishments of the last year, repeatedly mentioning
the phrase  back to basics  that helped him win election in 2013.

He pointed to the passage of state subsidies for the film industry, the arrival
of tech companies including Yahoo to Los Angeles and a new initiative to clean
the city s streets.

He also called on the Los Angeles City Council to pass a higher minimum wage for
the city.

As crowds streamed out of the building after Garcetti s speech, Stuart Waldman,
president of the Valley Industry and Commerce Association, called the mayor s
address  safe.

Waldman added that the emphasis on public safety is important to the city,
particularly businesses.

If people don t feel safe, they re not going to shop, and businesses are going
to move away,  Waldman said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Los Angeles County homicides lowest since 1970

BYLINE: David Montero

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 548 words


Homicides in Los Angeles County last year were at their lowest level since 1970,
and overall violent crime was down nearly 5 percent from 2013 , according to Los
Angeles County Sheriff s data unveiled at the department s headquarters on
Wednesday.

The numbers also showed a five-year decline in violent crime, dropping by 20.7
percent between 2009 and 2014.

The news overall ... is very good,  Sheriff Jim McDonnell said.  We have an
ongoing positive trend, and I attribute a lot of the successes we ve had to our
partnership with the community to using technology as wisely as we can. But we
re not looking here really just at numbers; this is an indicator of the work
being done out there every day.

VIDEO: Sheriff says department is focused on improving quality of life

The Sheriff s Department, with 18,000 employees and covering 4,000 square miles,
has seen its image battered in recent years by corruption trials and federal
probes into deputy misconduct in the nation s largest jail system. Longtime
Sheriff Lee Baca resigned a year ago as the department s image frayed amid the
corruption and the pay-to-play system that had defined the department s culture.

McDonnell ran on a campaign to  restore the shine to the badge,  and Wednesday s
numbers gave the new sheriff a chance to relay some good news.

In 2013, there were 164 homicides, compared with 149 in 2014. By comparison, the
high-water mark for homicides in Los Angeles County dating back to 1960 was 424
in 1992.

But he acknowledged most homicides are rooted in gangs. Last year, 63 percent of
the 149 homicides in the county were gang-related. He said the department will
continue to push youth-based activities to keep kids off the streets.

The gangs drive our violent crime rates and particularly the homicide rate,  he
said.  We know most of our gangs are young kids that grew up in an environment
that was often dysfunctional. The opportunities that are there for kids in some
of our neighborhoods weren t there for them, and they went down the wrong track.

McDonnell also said the enactment of AB 109 , which shifted some of the prison
load from the state to local counties last October, didn t result in a spike in
crime as some had predicted.

The drop in crime largely across the board also carried over into property
crimes, with the rate dropping by 6.2 percent between 2013 and last year.

Capt. Roosevelt Johnson in the Santa Clarita Valley station, said his area is
focusing on continuing to reduce property crime by starting a new program with
big-box retailers to meet quarterly and share information about thefts, crimes
committed at their locations and strategies to curb that crime.

He said about 30 stores met at the first session and the next one will be in
late February or early March. Johnson said he hopes this new approach will help
reduce crime by 5 percent each year.

There is a lot we can learn from each other, and this is a good way to get that
information out there,  Johnson said.

The sheriff s numbers were in stark contrast to crime statistics released Monday
by the Los Angeles Police Department, where violent crime shot up 14.3 percent
after an 11-year run of dropping crime statistics. LAPD Chief Charlie Beck
attributed that spike to an increase in domestic abuse and street fighting
cases.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles Police Urged to Review Use of Force After 'Alarming' Rise in
Shootings

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 721 words


LOS ANGELES --  Citing an ''alarming'' rise in shootings by police over the last
year, the civilian board that oversees the Los Angeles police called on Tuesday
for an extensive review of the department's policies on the use of force.

The new president of the Los Angeles Police Commission, Matt Johnson, said
reducing officers' use of force was one of his top priorities for the
department, on par with bringing down the overall crime rate.

The number of shootings by the police so far this year has nearly doubled, to 45
from 23 during the same period last year, Mr. Johnson said. He added that, like
other departments, the Los Angeles police were facing ''a crisis of confidence
with minority communities, particularly African-Americans,'' in the wake of
police shootings of black civilians across the country.

''We must fully commit to minimizing the number of use-of-force incidents,'' Mr.
Johnson said. In addition to review of use-of force incidents, he called for an
examination, and possible expansion, of nonlethal options like Tasers and
beanbag shotguns.

The Los Angeles police spent more than a decade under a federal consent decree
after dozens of officers were accused of corruption and evidence tampering. From
2001 until 2013, the federal government imposed reforms on the police here,
which helped the department move past a history that had often been checkered
with officer abuse of the public.

It has come to be regarded by many authorities as a leader in community
policing.

Mr. Johnson's comments on Tuesday acknowledged problems that police had faced
recently, after years of falling crime rates and praise from the law enforcement
community. Homicides, violent crime and property crime have all increased by at
least 10 percent so far in 2015 compared with last year. August was the
deadliest month since 2007, with 39 homicides, Mr. Johnson said.

''It's concerning to me,'' Steve Soboroff, another member of the police
commission, said of the rising crime numbers. ''The job of being a police
officer is changing dramatically, with all these modifications in training,
dealing with the mentally ill, use of force.''

But he said 20 to 30 factors were contributing to the rising crime rate, such as
changing state laws that have let many minor drug offenders stay out of prison.

''I don't attribute it to something wrong with the Police Department,'' he said.

The Los Angeles police chief, Charlie Beck, and the department did not comment
on the commission's action Tuesday.

Police departments across the country are facing increased scrutiny of their use
of force. Just Tuesday, Southern California Public Radio, a local radio station,
published an investigation detailing nearly 400 police shootings in Los Angeles
in recent years, none of which have been prosecuted as homicides.

''If there's one major department that has transformed itself in the last 10
years, it's the Los Angeles Police Department,'' said Chuck Wexler, the
executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum. ''But every police
department in the country is under increased scrutiny because of what we've seen
in the last year. They have to continue to make progress and look for ways to
de-escalate to maintain their leadership position.''

Connie Rice, a civil rights lawyer who has worked to help carry out reforms at
the Los Angeles Police Department over the last decade, said it was encouraging
that police officials were looking at the complication question of how to deal
with use of force.

''Right now, police have a down-to-the-bone belief that they have to watch
suspects' hands, and if the hands move, they can shoot,'' Ms. Rice said. ''We
are going to have to work this through with them, and show them why that isn't
so.''

In an interview after his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Johnson said he took his
position on the police commission ''as a direct response to the national
conversation that's going on regarding police use of force.''

''Part one is greater transparency,'' he said. That will include not only
greater analysis of use-of-force data, but also body cameras, which will soon be
standard for all Los Angeles police officers.

''But this is a first step, not an end in itself,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''This
will hopefully give us the tools needed to continue significant reform.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/11/us/los-angeles
-police-urged-to-review-use-of-force-after-alarming-rise-in-shootings.html

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            August 1, 2015 Saturday

Alleged leader of an Israeli organized crime ring gets 32 years

BYLINE: Amanda Lee Myers; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 592 words

ABSTRACT

Alleged leader of Israeli organized crime ring that moved drugs across globe
gets 32 years

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A Los Angeles man who prosecutors say was a leader of an Israeli
organized crime ring that moved drugs and money across the globe was sentenced
Friday to 32 years in prison.

Moshe Matsri, 49, was sentenced in federal court in Los Angeles on a slew of
money laundering, drug and extortion charges. Prosecutors recommended he be
sentenced to 34 years in prison, while his own attorney argued for a 12-year
term.

Prosecutors describe Matsri, also known as "Moshe the Religious," as a
well-known crime figure in the San Fernando Valley with significant ties to the
Israel-based Abergil crime family. They say he laundered large amounts of money
around the world that helped fuel the international drug trade, and in one
instance, negotiated a deal involving "enough cocaine to get the entire city of
Dallas high."

Matsri's attorney, Dean Steward, said after Friday's sentencing that he'll
appeal the lengthy prison term. With two years already served following his
arrest, Matsri would be nearly 80 years old by the time he gets out of prison,
tantamount to a life sentence, Steward told U.S. District Judge S. James Otero.

Steward argued that his client is a loving husband and father, and a deeply
religious and caring man, cooking for his entire synagogue every Friday.

"The person that I know and the person that is so deeply involved in his temple
is a salvageable person," Steward said. "This is somebody who, given a chance to
have a life, can change the things that he has done."

Assistant U.S. Attorney Robyn Bacon said Matsri very well may be a good family
man, but he was also a major player in the drug trafficking world.

"The sentence should reflect just how serious the crimes these guys were
committing were, and how willing Moshe Matsri was to use violence to get what he
wanted," Bacon said.

Matsri was arrested in July 2013, along with several other members of the
organization, including a man in Belgium and another in the Netherlands, in a
coordinated international investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration,
the FBI and the Los Angeles Police Department. Matsri's brother was arrested by
Israeli authorities, as well, Bacon said.

Prosecutors say Matsri and "a network of trusted individuals" conducted complex,
layered transactions to wire money through shell accounts in locations around
the world, including Cyprus and Gibraltar.

Bacon said an undercover investigator posing as a drug trafficker was introduced
to Matsri as the man "who could 100 percent take care" of all a drug
trafficker's needs in Los Angeles.

Later, prosecutors say Matsri agreed to help two undercover agents posing as a
Columbian drug trafficker and a Los Angeles associate transport cocaine from Los
Angeles to Utah. He also planned to ship 20 kilograms of cocaine from Panama to
Israel, and proposed a deal to buy 100 kilograms of cocaine for sale in New
York, prosecutors said.

Among the other men arrested with Matsri, two pleaded guilty and were sentenced
to prison terms of up to 3 1/2 years. Three more are set for trial in the next
year. A sixth, Shay Paniry, of Studio City, was sentenced Thursday to more than
17 years in prison on drug and money laundering charges.

Matsri was born in Tel Aviv, Israel to parents who had fled Iraq because of
religious persecution, according to court documents. Matsri, who served in the
Israei military, and his wife moved to the U.S. in 1996. They have five children
between 6 and 18 years old.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 30, 2015 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

People: Ex-'Glee' star Mark Salling accused of child porn possession

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 540 words


'Glee' actor is arrested as part of child porn inquiry

Authorities said former "Glee" star Mark Salling was arrested in Los Angeles for
investigation of possessing child pornography.

Police Officer Tony Im said Salling, 33, was taken into custody Tuesday after a
warrant was served at his home in the Sunland neighborhood.

Im said Salling had been investigated by the LAPD's Internet Crimes Against
Children Task Force, but he did not elaborate.

Representatives for the actor did not immediately respond to requests for
comment. Im didn't know if Salling had a lawyer.

Salling is best known for playing Noah "Puck" Puckerman on TV's "Glee." The
musical comedy-drama aired on Fox from 2009 through March of this year.

Search continues for singer o A search resumed Tuesday along a 38-mile lake in
northern Oklahoma for a country singer who went missing while duck hunting in
severe weather.

Authorities returned to the massive Kaw Lake, which stretches nearly into
Kansas, in attempts to find Craig Strickland, 29, of Springdale, Ark., who went
missing on Sunday after his boat capsized. On Monday, troopers pulled the body
of Strickland's hunting companion, Chase Morland, from the lake.

Strickland is the lead singer of the Arkansas-based country-rock band Backroad
Anthem. The band posted a Twitter message Tuesday from Strickland's father,
Randy, who reported that the family was at the Kay County Sheriff's Office,
where the power was out and running on a generator. Randy Strickland did not
immediately return a message at his Oklahoma address seeking comment but said in
the online post that his son's dog, Sam, had been found.

The large search area, coupled with the severe storms that pounded the area over
the weekend, hampered rescue efforts, said Oklahoma Highway Patrol Capt. Paul
Timmons.

No mercy for Allman film director o The father of a film worker killed by a
train while shooting a movie about singer Gregg Allman says the film's director
doesn't deserve early release from a two-year jail sentence for involuntary
manslaughter.

Former "Midnight Rider" director Randall Miller is serving time in rural
southeast Georgia after he pleaded guilty to felony charges in the February 2014
train collision that killed camera assistant Sarah Jones. Miller's attorneys
have asked a judge to set him free after serving less than half his jail
sentence, citing Miller's good behavior and concern for his health.

Jones' father, Richard Jones, said Tuesday that releasing Miller from jail early
would send a message "that Hollywood gets a break." He has written a letter
asking Superior Court Judge Anthony Harrison to deny the director's request.

CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS

Actor Russ Tamblyn is 81. Singer Noel Paul Stookey is 78. Director James Burrows
is 75. Actor Fred Ward is 73. Singer Mike Nesmith is 73. Singer Patti Smith is
69. Musician Jeff Lynne is 68. TV host Meredith Vieira is 62. Actress Sheryl Lee
Ralph is 60. Country singer Suzy Bogguss is 59. "Today" show anchor Matt Lauer
is 58. Actress-comedian Tracey Ullman is 56. TV host Sean Hannity is 54. Singer
Jay Kay is 46. Actress Meredith Monroe is 46. Actor Jason Behr is 42.
Singer-actor Tyrese is 37. Actress Eliza Dushku is 35. Actress Kristin Kreuk is
33. Singer Ellie Goulding is 29.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this March 13, 2015 file photo, Mark Salling arrives at the
32nd Annual Paleyfest "Glee" held at The Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles.
Authorities say former "Glee" star Salling has been arrested in Los Angeles for
investigation of possessing child pornography. Los Angeles Police officer Tony
Im says the 33-year-old actor was taken into custody Tuesday, Dec. 29, 2015,
after a warrant was served at his home in the Sunland neighborhood. (Photo by
Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                              July 24, 2015 Friday

LA sheriff: Law playing large role in crime rise

BYLINE: Tami Abdollah; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 650 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Sheriff: New law plays 'significant' role in crime rise,
disincentives treatment

FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> A recent change in California law making certain drug and
property crimes misdemeanors instead of felonies played "a significant role" in
the rising crime rate in Los Angeles County and has taken away the incentive for
addicts to seek treatment, Sheriff Jim McDonnell said Thursday.

In an interview with The Associated Press, McDonnell also said legalizing
marijuana for recreational use is a bad idea and that recent public backlash
against police over use of force is having an impact on his agency, the largest
sheriff's department in the country.

Proposition 47

Many in law enforcement have criticized Proposition 47, which voters passed last
November. To ease overcrowding in the prison system, it reduced the penalties
for shoplifting, forgery, fraud, petty theft and possession of small amounts of
drugs - including cocaine, heroin and methamphetamines.

So far this year the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department reports a 3.39
percent increase in violent crime and a 6.9 percent increase in property crime.

"We had 10 years of crime reductions, we were at 50-year lows in many areas on
crime statistics, and all of a sudden, right after November when 47 kicked in
that changed and fairly dramatically, very quickly," he said. "It would be naive
to say that 47 didn't play a major role in that."

Treatment impacted

McDonnell said the law prevents authorities from leveraging the threat of a
felony charge to get addicts into treatment. As a result, county treatment rolls
are down 60 percent.

"People are no longer incarcerated, they're not in treatment, they're out
reoffending on the street," McDonnell said.

Proposition 47 came after California's 2011 prison realignment law, which pushed
many criminals into county jails to decrease state prison populations. Jails
previously housing only people awaiting trial or those sentenced to less than a
year now also hold more hardened criminals serving longer terms. McDonnell said
one county inmate has a 42-year sentence.

"That's not something we're equipped to deal with effectively," McDonnell said.
"The state prison system has been sued and had consent decrees over it, and it's
predictable that as a result, we're going to have the same kind of lawsuits and
the same kind of damages."

Sheriff: What savings?

One of the goals of Proposition 47 was to use savings from reduced jail
populations to fund drug treatment programs as an alternative to incarceration.
But there's been no savings in Los Angeles County - the jails are filled with
about 18,000 inmates.

Before Proposition 47 the jails were overcrowded and inmates served just 10 to
15 percent of their sentences. Now they're serving 90 percent of the sentences,
McDonnell said, but there's no money for the treatment services.

Other issues

McDonnell touched on a number of other law enforcement issues:

o Body cameras are being tested by the department and he hopes to provide them
to deputies on patrol and in jails. McDonnell said deputies shouldn't be able to
review the camera footage before making an initial statement in any use of force
incident.

After the initial statement, he said deputies could then review the video and
make a supplemental statement.

o Marijuana legalization is bad for society. He said pot is far more potent
today and so the gentle buzz people expect is far more intense and sometimes
produces hallucinations. There are many unresolved questions about how law
enforcement will test for levels of intoxication.

o Media coverage of violent police encounters is having an impact on law
enforcement. Deputies are worried that any use of force could be misconstrued
when captured on video, McDonnell said. Less than 1 percent of the millions of
daily police contacts with the public result in uses of force, but those are
what people focus on, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                       June 11, 2015 Thursday 7:27 PM GMT

LA Confidential author James Ellroy unveils grisly real-life crime scene
pictures from 1950s in new book;
The images feature in a new book put together by the iconic crime author who has
been working with the LA Police

BYLINE: By Kirstie McCrum

SECTION: NEWS,WEIRD NEWS

LENGTH: 209 words


James Ellroy is one of crime writing's biggest names - but the author of L.A.
Confidential stepped away from fiction when it came to this project.

The 67-year-old teamed up with the Los Angeles Police Museum to reveal the crime
-ridden era of 1953.

Among the hard-hitting images are an officer in a creepy mask and a man lying
dead on the concrete floor of the Los Angeles River bed.

The crime scene pictures throw a light on the city the writer loves and has
immortalised in books like L.A. Confidential - later made into a film starring
Russell Crowe and Guy Pearce - and The Black Dahlia, also a film starring Josh
Hartnett and Scarlett Johansson.

Through a cooperative project with Glynn Martin, executive director of the
museum, Ellroy has penned dark stories to go with more than 85 original images
which show the depraved side of the city famed for its bright lights and
opportunities.

In the introduction to LAPD '53  by James Ellroy and Glynn Martin for the Los
Angeles Police Museum, Ellroy explains: "They portray trouble in paradise. Great
cities resist containment. Urban planning is futile. Crime, et al., cannot be
eradicated.

"Plunder must run its course. Now, the flashbulbs pop! It marks the aftermath of
plunder."

James Ellroy's new book LAPD '53

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 11, 2015 Friday

Video released of suspect in $100,000 identity theft losses

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 152 words


Authorities sought the public's help Thursday to find a San Fernando Valley
identity theft suspect responsible for more than $100,000 in losses.

From June through August, the man created fictitious identity cards and bank
cards to assume the identity of multiple victims, according to the Los Angeles
Police Department.

"The suspect fraudulently withdrew funds from various bank accounts, in excess
of $100,000," according to a police statement.

The crimes took place in the Topanga and Van Nuys areas of Los Angeles, as well
as in other jurisdictions.

Police circulated bank security images of the gray-haired suspect, who's
described as white, 70 to 80 years old, 5 feet 9 to 5 feet 11 inches tall and
weighing about 190 pounds. He has been seen in a gold BMW SUV.

Anyone with information about the case was urged to call Detective Ward at the
LAPD's Financial Section at 818-374-9624 or 818-374-9420; or 877-LAPD-247.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Billboard project targets hit-runs;
Campaign encourages motorists to stay at scene of accidents and witnesses to
report information

BYLINE: Sarah Favotsarah.favot@langnews.com @sarahfavot on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words


Los Angeles police and city officials launched a billboard campaign Wednesday
that encourages drivers to stay at the scene of accidents and asked witnesses of
hit-and-run crimes to report any information to police.

The Los Angeles Police Department, with the approval of the City Council,
partnered with Clear Channel Outdoor to launch the Obey the Rules of the Road
campaign on 13 billboards across the city. The total donation from Clear Channel
to the city for the billboard space is $150,000, according to city documents.

LAPD Chief Charlie Beck said there is nothing more likely to kill an Angeleno
than a traffic accident.

"This saves lives," he said. "Several hundred people died in traffic accidents
in the city of Los Angeles this year. Many of them avoidable."

L.A. City Councilman Mitchell Englander, who chairs the council's Public Safety
Committee, said less than 20 percent of hit-and-run crimes in the city are
solved.

Englander encouraged witnesses to call 911 to report the vehicle information to
police and to render aid to the victim.

Beck said sometimes residents "forget their responsibility" to report these
crimes.

A person who could leave victims "like a wounded animal" on the side of the road
after

striking someone with their vehicle is a "coward" and a "criminal," Englander
said.

"We're coming after you," he said.

Englander called the city's high rates of hit-and-run accidents an "epidemic."

He said there are more than 20,000 hit-and-run accidents in Los Angeles each
year.

Forty-eight percent of all traffic accidents in the city are hit-and-run crimes,
he said. The national average is 11 percent, he said.

Twenty-seven people were killed in hit-and-run crimes last year and 144 people
were severely injured, Englander said.

Beck said Los Angeles has a high rate of hit-and-runs compared to other U.S.
cities because L.A. is the second-largest U.S. city and has the highest traffic
volume of any U.S. city.

LAPD detectives released information on an unsolved hit-and-run crime to seek
the public's help to track down the suspected perpetrator.

Detectives are looking for William Armando Portales, who is described as a
Hispanic male, 49 years old, 5 feet 6 inches tall and 165 pounds. Portales has
brown eyes and black hair.

Police allege Portales was driving a 2003 Mitsubishi Lancer with a California
license plate number 4ZCG222 on Sept. 18 at 9:45 p.m., when the vehicle struck
Irma Espinoza-Lugo who was walking in a marked crosswalk at the intersection of
Figueroa Street and Avenue 55 in Los Angeles' Northeast area.

Espinoza-Lugo died from her injuries.

Police have a warrant for Portales' arrest on a felony hit and run charge.

Detective Michael Kaden said he believes Portales is in the L.A. area and
encouraged Portales to turn himself in. Anyone who has information about
Portales' whereabouts is encouraged to call LAPD Central Traffic Division
detectives at 213-833-3713 or Kaden directly at 213-486-0750. After business
hours calls can be made to 1-877-LAPD-24-7. Tipsters who wish to remain
anonymous may call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS (8477) or may text Crime
Stoppers at 274637 with a cell phone. All text messages should begin with the
letters "LAPD". Tipsters may also go to LAPDOnline.org and click on "webtips."

Pamela Kay Strong's brother Paul Clinton Strong, 60, was killed in a hit-and-run
in December in downtown Los Angeles. An LAPD detective said a witness's
cooperation lead to the prosecution of the perpetrator.

"I have overcome that tragedy only from the benevolent act of a witness," Pamela
Kay Strong said. "Wouldn't you want to know who caused your loved ones harm?"

The L.A. City Council has a standing reward for tips that lead to the successful
prosecution of hit-and-run crimes. If the victim is fatally injured, tipsters
are eligible for up to a $50,000 reward. If the victim suffered serious bodily
injury, the reward amount is $25,000. If the victim was injured, but not
severely, the reward is $5,000 and if there was only property damage, tipsters
are eligible for up to $1,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday
                                 CITY-D Edition

L.A. district attorney reviews case against Cosby, too

BYLINE: By Laura McCrystal; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 466 words


Prosecutors in Los Angeles acknowledged Friday that they have begun reviewing
sexual-abuse allegations against Bill Cosby, raising the possibility that the
comedian could face criminal charges in more than one state.

Los Angeles police presented a case to prosecutors Wednesday involving a
24-year-old woman who claims Cosby assaulted her in 2008.

The Los Angeles review comes as the clock ticks on a decade-old case in
Montgomery County.

District Attorney Risa Vetri Ferman has neither confirmed nor denied that she is
revisiting allegations from a former Temple University employee that Cosby, 78,
drugged and molested her in Montgomery County in 2004. But Cosby has quietly
contacted Philadelphia-area criminal defense attorneys, sources have said, and
Andrea Constand's attorney has said she would be willing to participate in a
revived case. The 12-year statute of limitations on felony sex crimes will
expire in January for Constand's accusations.

More than 50 women have accused Cosby of sexual misconduct, but most allegations
are decades old and fall outside the time limits for prosecution.

Los Angeles police "presented a case regarding Bill Cosby to our sex-crimes
division on Wednesday, and it's under review," said Ricardo Santiago, a
spokesman for the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office.

Santiago said Friday that he did not have additional details about the case and
did not know when prosecutors would conclude their review.

Chloe Goins, the woman accusing Cosby in Los Angeles, claims he drugged and
assaulted her in a bedroom of the Playboy Mansion in 2008. It is unclear what
charges are under consideration or whether they would fall under the statute of
limitations. California has a 10-year statute of limitations for rape, but a
six-year limit for other sex crimes.

Los Angeles prosecutors declined to bring charges in another woman's allegations
against Cosby last year, citing an expired statute of limitations.

An attorney for Cosby did not respond to a message Friday. Cosby and his
attorneys have repeatedly declined to discuss allegations against him beyond
denying that he has assaulted any woman.

In Montgomery County, then-District Attorney Bruce L. Castor declined to charge
Cosby in 2005.

But legal experts have said excerpts released this summer of a civil deposition
Cosby gave in 2005 for Constand's civil lawsuit against him, along with the
additional women who have accused him of sexual misconduct, could strengthen a
criminal case.

Ferman has stayed quiet about the Cosby case, but she said in a statement to The
Inquirer last month that prosecutors have "a responsibility to review past
conclusions" when new information is available.

lmccrystal@phillynews.com

610-313-8116

@Lmccrystal

This article contains information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

Gurdwara vandalized in LA with anti-ISIS graffiti

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Dec. 9 -- A Gurdwara has been vandalized in Los Angeles suburbs with
hateful graffiti addressed towards ISIS, Sikh community leaders have said,
fearing this "hate crime" is a repercussion of the California shooting.

"We are concerned about the safety and security of our community members. We are
of the opinion that this is a hate crime and that this is a direct result of a
possible backlash from the San Bernardino killings," said Inderjot Singh,
president of Sikh Gurdwara in Buena Park, a suburb of Los Angeles.

The incident, which occurred early on Sunday morning is being investigated by
local law enforcement agencies.

"The Gurdwara was vandalized during Sunday early hours and a hateful graffiti
was seen on the walls of the Gurdwara and also a truck parked in the parking
lot. The graffiti included the phrase, "F@#k ISIS," and the words "Islam" and
other reference of gangs," Washington-based Sikh Council on Religion and
Education said in a statement.

The Gurdwara is attended by over 800 community members on a weekly basis. The
White House, which was informed about the incident, has forwarded the incident
to the Department of Homeland Security to investigate.

"The Sikh community across the nation is in a heightened state of alert and is
deeply troubled by this latest incident. We are appealing to all Sikh place of
congregation to be in touch with the local law enforcement agencies as well with
the elected officials," Dr Rajwant Singh of the Sikh Council on Religion and
Education, said.

Singh also expressed concern over the recent anti-Muslim rhetoric made by some
of the contenders of American presidency.

"This will directly result in elevated level of violence against minority
religions in America and particularly the Sikhs. We are fearful that this kind
of hate speech against Muslims with engulf Sikhs and members of the Muslim
community across the nation," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2016 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                 RECIPIENT: Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
           DONOR: The Elks of Los Angeles Foundation/Los Angeles Lee
                               Linden Foundation


                        LAST UPDATED: November 22, 2016
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000 - 19,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles
TAXCODE:  95-1684067
URL:  http://lafla.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90019
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Elks of Los Angeles Foundation/Los Angeles Lee Linden Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2017


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 bondbuyer.com

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

L.A. State of City Speech Focuses on Earthquakes, Drought and Police

BYLINE: Keeley Webster

SECTION: Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 552  words


LOS ANGELES - Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti took aim at earthquakes, drought
and increased police protection in his annual State of the City speech.

Garcetti continued to push his so-called "Back to Basics" program in the speech,
which is usually the precursor to the mayor delivering a budget to the City
Council.

In addition to highlighting efforts to prepare for the big earthquake - for
which, he said, the city is overdue - and the city's efforts to deal with the
state's four-year drought, he also noted a push to get federal funding to
support build-out of the city's light rail system.

"I've been aggressive, travelling frequently to Washington to bring home our
fair share of federal funds for transit. The result so far?  Nearly $3 billion
and counting," Garcetti said in Tuesday's speech. "This funding is accelerating
subway construction under Wilshire Boulevard. As a result, we'll be able to ride
underground from Downtown to Century City a year earlier."

Garcetti also cited construction underway on the new Crenshaw/LAX Line, the
Downtown Rail Connector, the Gold Line Extension, and the Expo line extension,
which will connect the east side to the ocean.

The city finally got the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and Los Angeles International Airport to agree on a plan earlier this
year to connect the airport to the growing light rail network.

"When I took that oath, I told you that I would get us back to the basics,"
Garcetti said. "I said that it was time for City Hall to improve core city
services, to rebuild our city's infrastructure and to help businesses create
more middle-class jobs. And today, we are leaving the recession in the rearview
mirror - and building a Los Angeles that works."

Among the city's achievements, according to Garcetti, are 70,000 new jobs - the
fastest employment creation pace in more than a decade --balanced budgets, an
improved credit rating, lowered business taxes, and that more people are
choosing to live, work, visit, and study in L.A. than ever before.

"Today, I am proud to report to you that our back to basics agenda is delivering
results," he said. "Los Angeles and your City Hall are roaring back, and the
state of our city is strong."

The city also has reduced overall crime at the end of last year to its lowest
level per capita since 1949, though the city's violent crime numbers were up.

He rolled out a plan to tackle crime that included nearly doubling the ranks of
LAPD's elite Metropolitan Division, "so we can quickly saturate a neighborhood
with additional officers when crime spikes."

His budget, which will go to the City Council next week, will include $5.5
million more dollars for the city's Gang Reduction and Youth Development
program, he said.

"In the aftermath of Ferguson, Staten Island, and now, North Charleston,
relationship-based policing has put us on track to be the biggest city in
America to put body cameras on every officer on the street," Garcetti said,
referring to a series of incidents around the country in which police killed
unarmed black men. "Today, I am announcing the creation of a new division at
LAPD that centers on relationship-based policing - the Community Policing
Division - 40 officers whose sole mission will be to build even greater trust
and partnerships in our communities."

URL:
http://bb.prod.source-media.psdops.com/news/la-state-of-city-speech-focuses-on-e
arthquakes-drought-and-police

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

Suspect captured in fatal Pico Rivera stabbing of tow truck driver

BYLINE: Brian Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 331 words


PICO RIVERA >> Detectives Friday arrested a transient they d been seeking in
connection with the unprovoked stabbing death of a tow truck driver as he helped
the suspect s mother change her car battery in Pico Rivera, authorities said.

Tobias Ruben Cabrera, 39, is accused of Tuesday afternoon s slaying of
35-year-old Raymond Zabala of East Los Angeles, Deputy Ryan Rouzan of the Los
Angeles County Sheriff s Information Bureau said in a written statement.

Deputies from Pico Rivera Station and the Major Crimes Bureau developed
information about the possible whereabouts of Cabrera, and set up a surveillance
in the area of Whittier Boulevard and the San Gabriel River,  Rouzan said.
Major Crimes Bureau personnel observed the suspect, and were able to take him
into custody without incident.

Deputies booked Cabrera for murder at the sheriff s Pico Rivera Station,
according to Los Angeles County booking records. He was being held in lieu of
$1.08 million bail pending his scheduled arraignment Tuesday in Downey Superior
Court.

Zabala worked for Petra Towing & Auto Repair in Montebello, which contracts with
the Automobile Club of Southern California for roadside service, said manager
Ron Lopez, who described Zabala as,  an outstanding young man  survived by a
girlfriend, a 2-month-old son and a stepson.

Zabala arrived about 4:20 p.m. Tuesday in the 8400 block of Buhman Avenue after
Cabrera s mother called AAA for help with a dead battery in her minivan, sheriff
s officials said.

As Zabala talked to Cabrera s mother, the suspect approached and stabbed Zabala
in the neck in a seemingly random attack before fleeing on a bicycle,
authorities said. He remained a fugitive until Friday.

Meanwhile, a website to collect donations to help Zabala s family with funeral
and service expenses as been set up at www.gofundme.com/ray-ray# . Family
members could not be reached for comment Friday.

Anyone with information was asked to contact the Sheriff s Homicide Bureau at
323-890-5500.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Brampton Guardian

                             August 21, 2015 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Gene Simmons' home searched by police

SECTION: WHATSON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 206  words


Gene Simmons' home was searched by the Los Angeles Police Department's Internet
Crimes Against Children Task Force on Thursday (20.08.15).

Officials have insisted the 65-year-old rock star and his family are not
suspects in the case, but have refused to reveal who the target of their
investigation actually is, the Los Angeles Times reports.

Officer Mike Lopez explained that the police went to the home of the KISS
guitarist on Thursday morning with a warrant to search the property.

Meanwhile, a spokesperson for the Simmons family has told NBC that the police
wanted to discuss a crime that could have occurred at Simmons' residence in 2014
while he was away on tour.

A statement read: "Neither Mr. Simmons nor any member of his family is a Person
Of Interest in the investigation and they are cooperating fully with the
investigation.

"At this time, the police have requested that Mr. Simmons and his family not
discuss the investigation publicly so as not to compromise it."

Meanwhile, Simmons' wife, actress Shannon Tweed, has taken to Twitter to thank
friends and fans for their support.

She wrote: "Thanks for your support. We couldn't be more horrified that someone
used our residence for such heinous crimes. Law enforcement is on it."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                             April 14, 2015 Tuesday

The great big cop-out

BYLINE: Antony Altbeker

SECTION: ARTS, CULTURE & ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 440 words


New book shows police 'tolerate' crime, writes
 BOOK 'EM
 Ghettoside by Jill Leovy, Bodley Head, R380
 FOR years, the SAPS has claimed that 82% of all murders are committed by people
who were known to the victim.


 According to the police, that sets a definite limit on how effective they can
be. Police officers cannot prevent assaults by husbands on their wives because
these take place in the privacy of the home. They cannot prevent a man from
attacking his rival in a love triangle. They cannot prevent drunken brawls in
bars packed with people who half-love, half-loathe each other.
 The police, in other words, are off the hook for South Africa's exceptionally
high murder rate. Nor do the police see themselves as responsible for "socially
determined contact crimes" as these, they have insisted, are the responsibility
of other government departments and NGOs, "especially those active in the
religious and cultural spheres".
 Jill Leovy's magnificent debut book stands as an unanswerable refutation of
this view.
 Ghettoside springs from Leovy's long experience as a crime journalist at the
Los Angeles Times and her attempt, in 2007, to write a story about every one of
the nearly 850 murders committed in Los Angeles that year.
 Embedding herself in a police homicide unit, Leovy focused her considerable
narrative talents on a few individual murders, especially the shooting of Bryant
Tennelle, the teenage son of a much-respected detective in the LAPD.
 The murder took place in South Central and, Leovy notes, was "more of a public
event than a secret one" and that everyone but the police knew who was
responsible.
 Bryant was killed because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time wearing
the wrong cap by someone who didn't want to be there at the behest of someone
else who didn't really have a motive. It was as stupid and unnecessary as that.
  Leovy argues that it is the absence of law enforcement, a condition that only
the police can address, that leads to violent crime.
 "Lawlessness," she writes, "is its own kind of order." Seen in this light,
murder-by-acquaintance is the result of a long history of under-enforcement that
amounts, in effect, to an implicit official tolerance of these kinds of crimes.

 o Antony Altbeker, a writer and researcher, is the author of three books about
crime and policing in South Africa.
  ON WATCH: Los Angeles police officers at the scene of a crime. Police
routinely argue that there is little they can do to combat
'murders-by-acquaintance' and 'socially determined contact crimes'.
'Ghettoside', a new book by Jill Leovy, challenges this view Picture: KEVORK
DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times,TT,TheTimes


                         Copyright 2015 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Saudi prince arrested on sex crime charge is late King Abdullah's son: report

LENGTH: 404  words


A Saudi prince arrested on sex crime charge in Los Angeles last month is the son
of Saudi Arabia's late King Abdullah, Daily Mail reported.

Court documents seen exclusively by Daily Mail Online name the prince as Majed
bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz, one of the late monarch's 35 known children.

Saudi prince arrested on sex crime charge at Los Angeles mansion

Majed Abdulaziz Al-Saud'sfull identity was disclosed as he escaped felony
charges for sex assault on Tuesday. The prince escaped the charges as Los
Angeles District Attorney ruled there was not sufficient evidence against him.

The 28-year-old was arrested on September 25 and was released on a $300,000 bond
the next day, according to police and online jail records.

The Saudi prince was arrested on charges of trying to force a worker at a
Beverly Hills estate to perform oral sex among other charges.

The prince was due in court today to face an initial hearing but sources at the
Los Angeles District Attorney's office say the case has been turned over to the
office of city attorney Mike Feur. When contactedFeur's office said a case
against Al Saud is currently being put together and a new court date will be
scheduled for later this year.

Son of Dubai ruler dies of heart attack

The involvement of Feur's office means the charges against the prince have been
downgraded from a felony which could have left him facing up to four years in
jail to a misdemeanour.

Meanwhile, lawyers acting for another three women, who claim to have been abused
by Al Saud, have filed a civil complaint at Los Angeles Superior Court.

The documents which give the prince's full name of Majed bin Abdullah bin
Abdulaziz Al Saud makeclear his lineage.

Abdulaziz was the first king of Saudi Arabia, and his son Abdullah was king
until his death in January of this year.

Saudi Arabia's King Abdullah dies at 90, Salman becomes new ruler

The Los Angeles Times said police descended on the massive estate to arrest the
prince after a neighbour saw a bleeding woman screaming for help as she tried to
scale the property's surrounding wall on Wednesday.

The $37 million home, in one of the most exclusive enclaves in the world, has
been rented for weeks at a time by foreign nationals over the past year, the
neighbor told the Times.

This article originally appeared on Daily Mail.

The post Saudi prince arrested on sex crime charge is late King Abdullah's son:
report appeared first on The Express Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 27, 2015 Sunday

Police ask for clues in killing;
Winnetka man, 37, dies after argument results in shooting

BYLINE: Dana Bartholomew dana.bartholomew@langnews.com @DN_DanaBart on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 196 words


Police are seeking the public's help in the Christmas Day shooting of a
37-year-old Winnetka man, who was killed after an argument led to a fistfight,
Los Angeles police said.

Police responded to a call just after 1 p.m. Friday for an "assault with a
deadly weapon shooting" in the 20300 block of Cantara Street, according to the
Los Angeles Police Department.

When officers from Topanga Division arrived, they found the man on the floor
inside the home suffering from a gunshot wound, police said. The Los Angeles
Fire Department took the victim to an unnamed hospital, where he later died from
his wounds.

Police said it appears someone was involved in a verbal dispute with the victim,
which resulted in a physical altercation. Someone produced a handgun and the
victim was struck by gunfire. The shooter left the location in an unknown
direction.

The victim, a resident of Winnetka, was not named pending notification of his
family.

LAPD Valley Bureau Homicide detectives are asking for the public's help in
providing information about the shooting. Call Detective Dave Peteque, 818-
374-1934 or 877-LAPD-24-7 (877-527-3247). For anonymous tips call 800-222-TIPS
(800-222-8477).

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

Here are the Los Angeles-area residents asked to attend State of the Union

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 350 words


LOS ANGELES >> A Los Angeles teacher, a Compton construction worker, a
Watts-area police captain and a Carson man who created a prison education
program are among 22 people who will have close-up views of President Barack
Obama when he delivers his State of the Union address tomorrow.

Seated in the same box as first lady Michelle Obama during the speech in
Washington, D.C., the Southland residents will join fellow honorees including an
astronaut, a doctor who worked to fight the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, a
former prisoner of the Cuban government and several letter-writers whose stories
inspired the president.

They are the latest group to be recognized as part of tradition started by
President Ronald Reagan during his State of the Union addresses.

LeDaya Epps, a Compton native who surmounted several life obstacles to graduate
as one of just two female construction workers from a union apprenticeship
program, is among the group of local residents who will be attending the speech.

Also attending will be Katrice Mubiru, a Los Angeles Unified School District
teacher who wrote a letter to the president urging him to support
career-technical education for K-12 students.

Los Angeles Police Department Capt. Phillip C. Tingirides is being honored for
helping create a community-based approach to policing in the Watts area, which
has seen a 50 percent drop in violent crime in recent years.

The fourth local honoree is 27-year-old Prophet Walker, a Carson resident who
served a six-year prison sentence for robbery, and created a prison education
program to help his fellow inmates obtain two-year college degrees. After
getting out of prison, he earned a degree in engineering and has seen other
participants in his program get accepted to universities. He also continued to
advocate for lowering recidivism among former inmates by starting Watts United
Weekend, an organization that runs weekend camp retreats focused on helping
ex-prisoners succeed in life after incarceration.

Walker also waged an unsuccessful bid for the 64th Assembly District in the
fall, losing to Mike Gipson, D-Carson.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

8 men arrested, 3,000 marijuana plants found in Arcadia building

BYLINE: Ruby Gonzales

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 228 words


ARCADIA - Detectives discovered an estimated 3,000 marijuana plants being grown
in an industrial building and arrested eight men on Wednesday.

Arcadia Police didn t have an estimated street value for the marijuana.

Police received information that a building in the 11000 block of Goldring Road
was being used to grow marijuana, Lt. Roy Nakamura said in a statement.

Detectives served a search warrant at the location at around 8 a.m.

Nakamura said the building contained about three thousand marijuana plants in
various stages of growth. Investigators found air filtration systems, lighting
equipment, watering systems and fertilizers in the building.

Lt. Mike Castro said eight men at the location were arrested on suspicion of
cultivating marijuana. He identified the suspects as Jairon Estrada of Los
Angeles, Micah Hicks of Fountain Valley, Cesar Rodriguez of Los Angeles, William
Siney of Los Angeles, Jose Orellana of Los Angeles, Douglas Harrison of Santa
Monica, Eric Carrillo of La Puente and Alex Luna of Los Angeles.

The suspects were being held at the Arcadia police jail in lieu of $50,000 bail.

Anyone with information on the case is asked to call the Arcadia Police
Department at 626-574-5151. Anonymous tispters can call Crime Stoppers at
1-800-222-8477 or texting  TIPLA  plus the tip to 274637, or use the tip webpage
at Los Angeles Regional Crime Stoppers.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2017 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


           RECIPIENT: Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
                                 California Inc
             DONOR: United States Department of Justice Office for
          Victims of Crime (in collaboration with Legal Aid Foundation
                           of Los Angeles) ('14 '16)


                           LAST UPDATED: May 11, 2017
                              DONATION YEAR: 2015

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000 - 99,999

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern California Inc
TAXCODE:  95-3854152
URL:  http://advancingjustice-la.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90017
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  United States Department of Justice Office for Victims of Crime (in
collaboration with Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles) ('14 '16)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017


                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 14, 2015 Monday

County felony convictions to be reduced

BYLINE: Sarah Favot sarah.favot@langnews.com @sarahfavot on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 439 words


Los Angeles County will take steps to help residents who qualify get certain
felony convictions reduced to misdemeanors under Proposition 47.

The Board of Supervisors decided Tuesday to collect data on the estimated
690,000 people in Los Angeles County who qualify under the ballot initiative
approved by voters in 2014. The board also agreed to establish a task force to
connect those people with jobs, job training and mental health and substance
abuse treatment, as well as to investigate whether the measure has saved the
county money.

The proposal, authored by Supervisors Hilda Solis and Mark Ridley-Thomas, was
unanimously approved.

Solis said because the conviction reduction does not automatically apply, but
rather residents must file a petition with the court, the county needs to put a
system in place to reach out to residents.

"It is our job to make it work," she said.

Prop. 47 allows those who have been convicted or charged with six felony
non-violent and non-serious drug and property crimes to be reduced to
misdemeanors. Reducing felony convictions to misdemeanors removes barriers to
job opportunities, federal programs like student aid and voting.

"These men and women come out of jail and find themselves homeless, untreated
and many unemployed," Solis said. "Is it any wonder that they continue to commit
crimes?"

Public Defender Robert Brown said his office has processed 16,702 petitions
under Prop. 47 that have been granted. His office is processing 690,000 more
petitions.

A representative from the alternate public defender's office said their office
has processed 4,000 petitions that have been approved.

Supervisor Sheila Kuehl questioned the rhetoric that links rising crime rates to
the passage of Prop. 47. She said no data has proven the connection. She pointed
to San Diego County, which has seen a drop in crime and has a robust re-entry
system, she said.

In a Los Angeles Times editorial, L.A. County Sheriff Jim McDonnell said because
funding for treatment does not become available until next year, the county has
seen an increase in property and violent crimes as a result of Prop. 47.

CEO Sachi Hamai said she will bring a recommendation to the board next week that
will direct the county's state legislative representatives to pursue county-
sponsored legislation that would extend or eliminate the sunset deadline of
November 2017 for residents to have their convictions reclassified.

The county auditor-controller will also report back on any savings since Prop.
47 and how those savings could be reallocated to the public defender's office to
expeditiously process applications before the deadline.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

672 pounds of cocaine found in Victorville-Santa Fe Springs bust

BYLINE: Beatriz Valenzuela

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 719 words


SANTA FE SPRINGS >> Five people were arrested and nearly 700 pounds of cocaine
seized in what officials on Thursday called the largest cocaine bust in the
state in recent memory, spanning from the Inland Empire to Los Angeles County.

Officials seized 50 kilograms (110 pounds) of cocaine during a traffic stop in
Victorville on Tuesday evening, which led them to a house in the 11400 block of
Charlesworth Road in Santa Fe Springs. That s where investigators seized 256
kilos (563 pounds) of cocaine on Wednesday.

Three people were arrested during the traffic stop and two were arrested at the
home in Santa Fe Springs, all with alleged ties to the Sinaloa Cartel, an
international drug-trafficking and organized crime group based in Mexico.

his is one of the biggest ones I ve seen in many years,  said Carlos Mendoza,
deputy director for the Los Angeles Interagency Metropolitan Police Apprehension
Crime Task (IMPACT) Force.

The bust was the culmination of a month-long investigation by L.A. IMPACT, a
multi-agency team made up of officers and agents from numerous federal, state
and local law enforcement agencies.

Eligio Alvarez Manriquez, 24, Jose Manuel Lopez, 22, and Cintia Ferro Barazza,
24, all of Victorville, were arrested Tuesday and Eddie Perez, 41, and Jose
Garcia Samano, 39, both of Santa Fe Springs, were arrested Wednesday, Mendoza
said.

These people we arrested are very well trusted  in the cartel, Mendoza said.
You don t just give away 300 kilos to someone to hold on to, so these people
have good connections in the cartel.

Detectives with the task force were monitoring the Santa Fe Springs area when
they witnessed a drug exchange in a strip mall Tuesday, Mendoza said.

They followed a vehicle and California Highway Patrol officials pulled it over
on Highway 395 in Victorville, near the Hesperia border in San Bernardino
County. Authorities found about 110 pounds of cocaine inside the vehicle. The
three adults were booked into San Bernardino County jail on $5 million bail and
a child was placed in protective custody.

From there he (the dealer) would have distributed it to other lower-level
dealers,  Mendoza said.  So it could have gone anywhere in the country.

The traffic stop led investigators to a home in Victorville but no drugs were
found, he said. However, further information pointed officials to the Santa Fe
Springs home, where the 563 pounds of cocaine was found in the garage. In
addition to the two adults booked into L.A. County jail on $5 million bail, one
woman was released and three children were taken into protective custody,
Mendoza said.

Lopez was charged with possession with the intent to sell and transport of a
controlled substance; Manriquez was charged with possession with the intent to
sell and transportation of cocaine; Barazza was charged with possession with the
intent to sell. Perez and Samano were charged with possession with the intent to
sell.

The cocaine found in Santa Fe Springs and Victorville had a combined street
value of $35 million, Mendoza said.

The cocaine has been linked to the Mexican Sinaloa drug cartel, however,
Department of Justice spokeswoman Michelle Gregory said she does not believe
those arrested are members of the cartel; instead she believes they are
associates of the group.

It s never typically directly the cartel,  she explained.  These people that
were bringing the drugs up in the U.S. appear to have ties to the cartel.

On Thursday, residents in the area said there was little trouble at the property
and few signs of the clandestine activities allegedly taking place inside what
officials called a  stash pad.

Several neighbors said the home had been vacant for a year, possibly in
foreclosure, but that two men had moved into the house about two or three months
ago.

There was remodeling going on at the property, so residents didn t think much of
it. They said the residents of the home kept to themselves. One neighbor said he
saw someone who played with their children there.

I m glad I didn t go over  to meet them, said Maria Frias, who has lived on the
street for four years.  After hearing what was going on there.

Manriquez, Lopez and Barazza are scheduled to appear at Victorville Superior
Court at 12:30 p.m. today. Perez and Samano are scheduled to appear at Downey
Municipal Court at 8:30 a.m. today.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 14, 2015 Monday

Suspect barricaded in Lake Los Angeles

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox greg.wilcox@langnews.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 185 words


An armed man holding his family hostage and a sheriff's SWAT team at bay in Lake
Los Angeles prompted the evacuation of two nearby homes as a safety precaution,
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said.

The department received a call about 8:30 a.m. Monday of a domestic dispute at a
residence in the 40900 block of 161st Street East, said department spokeswoman
deputy Juanita Navarro.

The suspect is Juan Sandovol, 35, she said.

When deputies arrived he refused to come out.

"We believe that his wife, 4-year-old daughter and his parents are being held
hostage," Navarro said. "He is armed with a rifle or a shotgun."

The department's Special Enforcement Bureau Special Weapons Team arrived about
two hours later and tried for hours to coax Sandovol out.

"The special unit has assumed command of the tactical response, and crisis
negotiation team personnel are making attempts to bring the situation to a
peaceful resolution," the department said in a statement.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Lancaster Station at 661-948-8466.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday

Suspect barricaded in Lake Los Angeles

BYLINE: Gregory J. Wilcox greg.wilcox@langnews.com @dngregwilcox on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 185 words


An armed man holding his family hostage and a sheriff's SWAT team at bay in Lake
Los Angeles prompted the evacuation of two nearby homes as a safety precaution,
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said.

The department received a call about 8:30 a.m. Monday of a domestic dispute at a
residence in the 40900 block of 161st Street East, said department spokeswoman
deputy Juanita Navarro.

The suspect is Juan Sandovol, 35, she said.

When deputies arrived he refused to come out.

"We believe that his wife, 4-year-old daughter and his parents are being held
hostage," Navarro said. "He is armed with a rifle or a shotgun."

The department's Special Enforcement Bureau Special Weapons Team arrived about
two hours later and tried for hours to coax Sandovol out.

"The special unit has assumed command of the tactical response, and crisis
negotiation team personnel are making attempts to bring the situation to a
peaceful resolution," the department said in a statement.

Anyone with information about this incident is encouraged to contact the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Lancaster Station at 661-948-8466.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

La Mirada crime rate falls to 28-year low in 2014

BYLINE: Mike Sprague

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


LA MIRADA >> A 21 percent reduction in crime in this city has reduced it to
levels unseen since Ronald Reagan was president during the 1980s.

The numbers reported by the Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department for 2014
showed a reduction to 725 from 916 in 2013.

Not only was crime reduced significantly in La Mirada, but we re at the lowest
level since 1986,  said Mayor Larry Mowles.  That s an incredible statistic. It
s to the compliment of the Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department and
continuing efforts by our citizens.

The largest reductions came in the areas of property-type crimes, including
burglaries (207-123), larceny theft (523-435) and grand theft auto (109-76).

Lt. Kevin Beggs of the La Mirada sheriff s station, said there were numerous
reasons why crime decreased in 2014.

We redirected our special assignment teams,  Beggs said.  At the beginning of
the year we focused on illegal narcotics users. These are the people who are
committing property crimes. It worked for us.

In addition, the public was notified in areas where there were problems, such as
burglaries, Beggs said. Social media websites also were used, he added.

Still, not all categories of crimes decreased in 2014.

In particular, violent-type crimes such as assaults and robberies, increased.

Assaults increased by 29 percent or from 49 in 2013 to 63 in 2014.

Beggs blamed the increase in assaults on gang problems.

We do have a gang issue on the west side,  he said.

Cutting down the assaults, unlike property-type crimes, is more difficult.

With burglaries and thefts, you can have a plan of action but it s more
difficult to plan when assaults will happen, he said.

In addition, some of assaults are domestic violence, which are hard to predict
and prevent, he said.

Robberies also increased by about 19 percent or from 49 to 63.

However, those numbers went up in part because they are counted by the number of
victims.

If you have three victims, that will be counted as three different robberies,
he said.  In 11 of the cases, we had multiple victims.

Mowles said he is concerned about the increase in assaults and robberies, but
added the numbers still remain low.

I m hoping this is an aberration, a blip on the radar,  he said.  The (Sheriff s
Department) is on this. They re really over this stuff.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 23, 2015 Monday

Police, community fight crime;
Murders are up 12 percent, shooting victims have increased 20 percent, the city
is on the cusp of recording its 1,000th shooting victim this year

BYLINE: Amanda Lee Myers; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 752 words

ABSTRACT

As murders, shootings rise in Los Angeles, police and the community take to the
streets

FULL TEXT

"He was completely innocent. The guy's never even had a parking ticket," said
Detective Dave Peteque with the Los Angeles Police Department. "He's just a
working Joe, a family man trying to support his kids."

In a split second, Rebolledo joined the growing list of victims in the nation's
second-largest city, where murders are up 12 percent this year and shooting
victims have increased 20 percent. The city is also on the cusp of recording its
1,000th shooting victim of the year.

After an especially violent weekend in late September, LAPD Chief Charlie Beck
expressed his frustration about the bloodshed, particularly among gangs.

"This is not Dodge City," Beck said, referring to 19 shootings in one weekend,
13 of which were gang-related.

The increases come as redevelopment of the city's downtown and nearby
neighborhoods has attracted trendy new bars and restaurants, thousands of new
residents and megaprojects that include a $1 billion mixed-use hotel tower that
will be the tallest in the West.

In response to the rising numbers, the LAPD has deployed hundreds of elite
officers to crime hot spots, increased the number of officers walking the
streets versus patrolling in cars, and created a community relationship division
dedicated to building the public's trust in police officers.

But Beck said his department can't solve the problem alone.

"A lot of it is public will," he said. "A will of everyone in the city of Los
Angeles to say, 'Enough is enough.' "

Members of the community say they stepped up their own efforts when the crime
numbers started going up.

Rebolledo's death\x{feff} inspired a "peace movement" in the neighborhood where
he was killed, said Michelle Miranda, founder of Alliance for Community
Empowerment, a nonprofit that provides services to disadvantaged young people,
including gang intervention.

Young people involved with Miranda's organization decided to hold a peace march
on a recent Saturday in response to Rebolledo's death. More than 250 people took
to the streets wearing white shirts, carrying signs that included: "We protest
our right to live in peace."

"These are young people that know drugs in the community and gang activity, and
they're tired of it," Miranda said.

Miranda said the same youths who organized the march are working on more plans
to continue the peace movement.

At Good News Baptist Church in South Los Angeles, the Rev. Winford Bell began a
program through his nonprofit group to train members of the community how to
counsel family and friends of people who have been murdered.

The idea for the so-called "life comforters" is to provide a safe outlet to vent
anger and sorrow, and wherever possible, attempt to prevent retaliatory violence
common among gangs.

"Don't get me wrong, hardcore gang members are not going to hear me. Them we
can't do nothing with," Bell said. "The other ones who aren't so hard, who
aren't dedicated to being gang members ... If they come, we can do a lot of
work."

Los Angeles is\x{feff}one of a number of major cities across the U.S. seeing
rises in violent crime this year, including Baltimore, Washington, D.C.,
Chicago, Cleveland and Houston. Other California cities also have seen
increases, including Sacramento, Oakland and Long Beach.

Though the numbers are up, those cities are far safer than they were in the
early 1990s during the crack cocaine epidemic. In Los Angeles, for example,
murders peaked in 1992 with 1,092 people killed.

So far this year, there have been 251 homicides, compared to 225 during the same
time period last year.

Still, the LAPD is taking this year's uptick seriously.

"We're not panicking," said Capt. Jeff Bert, commanding officer of the
department's strategic planning group. "But we are in the business of driving
down crime so when a crime spike goes up, we're all over it. It is a concern."

It's still too early to pinpoint what's driving the increased violence across
the country and in Los Angeles, said Charis Kubrin, a criminologist at the
University of California at Irvine who analyzes crime in Southern California.

She said there could be a number of contributing factors, including easier
access to guns, the poverty rate, a new state law that reduced penalties for
certain crimes, and a growing distrust of police, which can contribute to
retaliatory violence.

"If you don't see the police as a viable option when you have a problem, then
you handle things on your own," Kubrin said.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            April 16, 2015 Thursday

L.A. State of City Speech Focuses on Earthquakes, Drought and Police

BYLINE: Keeley Webster

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS Vol. 1 No. 34293

LENGTH: 552  words


LOS ANGELESÂ - Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti took aim at earthquakes, drought
and increased police protection in his annual State of the City speech.

Garcetti continued to push his so-called "Back to Basics" program in the speech,
which is usually the precursor to the mayor delivering a budget to the City
Council.

In addition to highlighting efforts to prepare for the big earthquake - for
which, he said, the city is overdue - and the city's efforts to deal with the
state's four-year drought, he also noted a push to get federal funding to
support build-out of the city's light rail system.

"I've been aggressive, travelling frequently to Washington to bring home our
fair share of federal funds for transit. The result so far?Â  Nearly $3 billion
and counting," Garcetti said in Tuesday's speech. "This funding is accelerating
subway construction under Wilshire Boulevard. As a result, we'll be able to ride
underground from Downtown to Century City a year earlier."

Garcetti also cited construction underway on the new Crenshaw/LAX Line, the
Downtown Rail Connector, the Gold Line Extension, and the Expo line extension,
which will connect the east side to the ocean.

The city finally got the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority and Los Angeles International Airport to agree on a plan earlier this
year to connect the airport to the growing light rail network.

"When I took that oath, I told you that I would get us back to the basics,"
Garcetti said. "I said that it was time for City Hall to improve core city
services, to rebuild our city's infrastructure and to help businesses create
more middle-class jobs. And today, we are leaving the recession in the rearview
mirror - and building a Los Angeles that works."

Among the city's achievements, according to Garcetti, are 70,000 new jobs - the
fastest employment creation pace in more than a decade --balanced budgets, an
improved credit rating, lowered business taxes, and that more people are
choosing to live, work, visit, and study in L.A. than ever before.

"Today, I am proud to report to you that our back to basics agenda is delivering
results," he said. "Los Angeles and your City Hall are roaring back, and the
state of our city is strong."

The city also has reduced overall crime at the end of last year to its lowest
level per capita since 1949, though the city's violent crime numbers were up.

He rolled out a plan to tackle crime that included nearly doubling the ranks of
LAPD's elite Metropolitan Division, "so we can quickly saturate a neighborhood
with additional officers when crime spikes."

His budget, which will go to the City Council next week, will include $5.5
million more dollars for the city's Gang Reduction and Youth Development
program, he said.

"In the aftermath of Ferguson, Staten Island, and now, North Charleston,
relationship-based policing has put us on track to be the biggest city in
America to put body cameras on every officer on the street," Garcetti said,
referring to a series of incidents around the country in which police killed
unarmed black men. "Today, I am announcing the creation of a new division at
LAPD that centers on relationship-based policing - the Community Policing
Division - 40 officers whose sole mission will be to build even greater trust
and partnerships in our communities."

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BONDBUYER_NEWS


                        Copyright 2015 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                            November 13, 2015 Friday

2 men arrested on suspicion of burglarizing

BYLINE: ALYSSA DURANTY STAFF writer, The Orange County Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: STANTON



HIGHLIGHT: The suspects are linked to the crime spree after detectives witnessed
a Stanton break-in, authorities say.


  Two longtime thieves and convicted drug users were arrested after burglarizing
a Stanton El Pollo Loco restaurant as Los Angeles County authorities were
tailing them.

Police suspect they were responsible for 30 other similar break-ins in Southern
California and causing approximately $225,000 in damages, officials said.

Kevin Henry, 32, and Travis Laguisan, 41, were booked on suspicion of
burglarizing 31 El Pollo restaurants after detectives said they witnessed Henry
and Laguisan burglarizing a Stanton location after attempting to burglarize a
Westminster location at 13850 Goldenwest St. on Wednesday.

Authorities say Henry, with Laguisan in the passenger seat, parked in the back
parking lot of the El Pollo Loco at about 5:30 a.m.

Henry got out of the car and inspected the restaurant for occupants when a
maintenance worker showed up.

Henry got back in the car and drove less than 3 miles away to an El Pollo Loco
at 12530 Beach Blvd. in Stanton.

There, Henry and Laguisan exited the car before smashing a side glass door of
the restaurant.

Henry entered the restaurant while Lagsuian kept a lookout, law enforcement
officials said.

"Within minutes, Henry emerged from the damaged door carrying a bag, and both
men sprinted back to the vehicle," according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department.

Deputies from the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department's Major Crimes Bureau,
along with Garden Grove police officers, followed the duo before conducting a
felony traffic stop in the 13300 block of Beach Boulevard.

Both men were detained, and authorities found stolen cash in the car. They also
found other evidence that led them to a home in the 9300 block of Jenrich Avenue
in Westminster.

Evidence was found in the Westminster home that apparently connects Henry and
Laguisan to 31 other El Pollo Loco burglaries, two of which happened earlier
Wednesday morning in Los Angeles County, officials said.

Investigators said they suspect Henry and Laguisan are responsible for other
retail-business burglaries within the past three months in Orange, Riverside,
San Bernardino, Ventura and Los Angeles counties.

The Garden Grove Police Department is continuing to investigate the crimes with
the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.

The two were booked into an Orange County jail after questioning at the Garden
Grove Police Department and are scheduled to appear in court today.

Henry has pleaded guilty to committing felonies in Orange County since 2003 and
Laguisan similarly since 2002, according to court records.

Henry spent time behind bars for possession of a controlled substance, two
counts of second-degree burglary, possession of a controlled substance with
intent to sell, two counts of receiving stolen property, grand theft and parole
violation, all felonies.

He additionally has several misdemeanor convictions including possession of
burglary tools and battery on a co-inhabitant.

Lagusian has been convicted of two counts of receiving stolen property, buying
or receiving a stolen vehicle and two counts of second-degree burglary, all
felonies, as well as being under the influence of a controlled substance,
possessing a controlled substance, resisting arrest and DUI, all misdemeanors.

Anyone with information about the El Pollo Loco crime spree or the men involved
is asked to contact the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Major Crimes Bureau at
562-946-7187.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             August 14, 2015 Friday

Cold Case Fugitive Wanted for Crimes Against Children in Northern California
Arrested in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 519  words


A former northern California school teacher wanted for alleged crimes against
children was arrested this morning in Los Angeles by members of the FBI's
Fugitive Task Force, announced David Bowdich, assistant director in charge of
the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office, and David Johnson, special agent in charge
of the FBI's San Francisco Field Office.


Frank Joseph Montenegro, 52, a current resident of Los Angeles, was taken into
custody following a foot pursuit and struggle with task force members this
morning.
Montenegro, who had been residing at a community home in the Brooklyn Heights
section of Los Angeles, is currently in state custody in Los Angeles awaiting
transfer to the custody of officials in Alameda County, California.
According to a federal criminal complaint filed in United States District Court
in San Francisco on August 15, 2001, Montenegro was charged by the Alameda
County District Attorney's Office on July 25, 2001, following an investigation
by detectives with the Fremont Police Department. Montenegro was charged with
multiple counts of sodomy of a child under 14 years of age against the victim's
will; oral copulation; and the continued sexual abuse of a minor. At the time,
Montenegro had been working as an elementary school teacher. After investigators
had established that Montenegro fled across the southern United States border to
Mexico, the FBI was asked to assist in finding him. The federal complaint
charged Montenegro with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution (UFAP).
Montenegro had remained a fugitive until today when the FBI's Fugitive Task
Force in Los Angeles followed up on a tip received at the Los Angeles Police
Department indicating that the federal fugitive had been residing locally for
several years. Montenegro's case had been profiled at Northern California's Most
Wanted Website.
Members of the task force took Montenegro into custody after he initially fled
on foot and struggled with ensuing task force members, some of whom received
superficial injuries.
The FBI's Fugitive Task Force in Los Angeles is composed of agents and officers
with the FBI; the Los Angeles Police Department; and the California Department
of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Parole Division.
The fugitive investigation was conducted by agents assigned to the FBI's San
Francisco Field Office and detectives with the Fremont Police Department.
Montenegro is being held in state custody in Los Angeles and is expected to be
transferred to northern California this week for an arraignment on the state's
charges. It is anticipated that the United States government will dismiss the
federal warrant charging Montenegro with UFAP and that he will be prosecuted by
the Alameda County District Attorney's Office.  The FBI continues to work with
local law enforcement to apprehend violent criminals charged with state crimes
who then flee the jurisdiction interstate or internationally. Photos and
descriptions of many fugitives wanted by the FBI can be found at www.fbi.gov .
Media Contacts:
Los Angeles FBI: (310) 996-3343
San Francisco FBI: (415) 553-7590 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Arlene Colman-Schwimmer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arlene Colman-Schwimmer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              69 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patrick O. Hunnius


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick O. Hunnius
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Alexandra Denman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alexandra Denman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              72 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Russell T. Ginise


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Russell T. Ginise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Dennis D. Resh


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dennis D. Resh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jeffrey C. Soza


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeffrey C. Soza
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patric M. Verrone


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patric M. Verrone
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Cameron W. Fox


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cameron W. Fox
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Bonita Moore


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bonita Moore
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael S. Lurey


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael S. Lurey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Mark A. Neubauer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark A. Neubauer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              80 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Justice Orville A. Armstrong


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice Orville A. Armstrong
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Gavin Hachiya Wasserman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gavin Hachiya Wasserman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Mollie F. Benedict


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mollie F. Benedict
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Mark T. Cramer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark T. Cramer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregg A. Farley


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregg A. Farley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hon. Arnold H. Gold


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Arnold H. Gold
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Bernard S. Kamine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bernard S. Kamine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: LeAnne E.Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E.Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Commr. Steff Padilla


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Commr. Steff Padilla
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Harvey I. Saferstein


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harvey I. Saferstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              90 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David R. Stepp


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David R. Stepp
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Michael J.Wise


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael J.Wise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Ritu M. Hasan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ritu M. Hasan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              93 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Michelle Inouye Schultz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michelle Inouye Schultz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Carolyn C. Burger


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Carolyn C. Burger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              95 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Morgan Chu


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Morgan Chu
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              96 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Grace M. Danziger


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grace M. Danziger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Merrick J. Bobb


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Merrick J. Bobb
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Christopher J. Heck


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Christopher J. Heck
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James D. Layden


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James D. Layden
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kathleen M.McDowell


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kathleen M.McDowell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Ivan Price


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ivan Price
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura A. Seigle


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura A. Seigle
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William E. Thomson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William E. Thomson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jonathan L. Brophy


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jonathan L. Brophy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ryan S. LeVine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ryan S. LeVine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Courtney L. Stuart-Alban


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Courtney L. Stuart-Alban
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jeffrey C. Freedman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeffrey C. Freedman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael I. Blaylock


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael I. Blaylock
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Tyrone R. Childress


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Tyrone R. Childress
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             111 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Georgia Franklin-Shutan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Georgia Franklin-Shutan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Alan N. Halkett


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan N. Halkett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Lawson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Lawson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Sarretta C.McDonough


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sarretta C.McDonough
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Kalia C. Petmecky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kalia C. Petmecky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Alice A. Salvo


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alice A. Salvo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly M. Talley


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly M. Talley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Randee Barak


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Randee Barak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Mark A. Kressel


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark A. Kressel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael G. Soutar


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael G. Soutar
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane H. Barrett


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane H. Barrett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael K. Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael K. Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Gregory Evans


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory Evans
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John A. Girardi


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John A. Girardi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David C. Hunter


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David C. Hunter
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kerry Lyon-Grossman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kerry Lyon-Grossman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Frederick M. Nicholas


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Frederick M. Nicholas
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David K. Robinson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David K. Robinson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sheryl E. Stein


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheryl E. Stein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Caroline C. Vincent


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Caroline C. Vincent
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Alexander S. Gareeb


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alexander S. Gareeb
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Mhare O.Mouradian


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mhare O.Mouradian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Allison N. Shue


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allison N. Shue
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Catherine K. La Tempa


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Catherine K. La Tempa
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Lee R. Petillon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lee R. Petillon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc L. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc L. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Margaret P. Stevens


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Margaret P. Stevens
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Princeton H. Kim


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Princeton H. Kim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Feris M. Greenberger


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Feris M. Greenberger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Paul S. Chan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paul S. Chan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Eric R. McDonough


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eric R. McDonough
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ivy Kagan Bierman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ivy Kagan Bierman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Justice H.Walter Croskey


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice H.Walter Croskey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Stuart A. Forsyth


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Stuart A. Forsyth
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jason B. Komorsky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jason B. Komorsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Justice Nora M.Manella


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice Nora M.Manella
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Avisha A. Patel


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avisha A. Patel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Nicholas P. Saggese


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Nicholas P. Saggese
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David W. Steuber


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Steuber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Karen B.Wong and Scott W. Lee


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen B.Wong and Scott W. Lee
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mark Kachner


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mark Kachner
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Wesley T. Shih


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wesley T. Shih
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John M. Byrne


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John M. Byrne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lawrence W. Crispo


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lawrence W. Crispo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jennifer A. Bensch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jennifer A. Bensch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jo-Ann W. Grace


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jo-Ann W. Grace
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Macklin Fleming


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Macklin Fleming
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc M. Seltzer


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc M. Seltzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Douglas C. Rawles


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Douglas C. Rawles
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Phillip L. Bosl


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Phillip L. Bosl
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brett J. Cohen


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brett J. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Albert F. Davis


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Albert F. Davis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: James J. Gallagher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James J. Gallagher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian L. Holman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian L. Holman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Matthew P. Lewis


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew P. Lewis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Haley M. McIntosh


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Haley M. McIntosh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David W. Swift


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Swift
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Eugene L. Trope


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eugene L. Trope
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly H. Clancy


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly H. Clancy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Seth D. Levy


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth D. Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Thomas M. Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas M. Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Commr. Lori R. Behar


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Commr. Lori R. Behar
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Andres C. Hurwitz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andres C. Hurwitz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Rick C. Madden


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rick C. Madden
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Deborah J. Ruosch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah J. Ruosch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Alan K. Steinbrecher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan K. Steinbrecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Richard Walch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Walch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: James W. Gilliam, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James W. Gilliam, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Andrea Schoor


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Schoor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard B. Goetz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard B. Goetz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Maria Louise Cousineau


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Maria Louise Cousineau
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: W. Stuart Ogg


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  W. Stuart Ogg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura V. Farber


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura V. Farber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Emma Luevano


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Emma Luevano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: A. Patricia Ursea


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  A. Patricia Ursea
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jana I. Lubert


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jana I. Lubert
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Paula Ambrosini


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Paula Ambrosini
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Kappy K. Bristol


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kappy K. Bristol
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jordan S. Cohen


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jordan S. Cohen
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Bryant S. Delgadillo


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bryant S. Delgadillo
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Seth M. Gerber


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth M. Gerber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Peter Hsiao


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Peter Hsiao
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Shanks


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Shanks
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles E.Michaels


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles E.Michaels
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Thomas V. Reichert


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas V. Reichert
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Rhonda R. Trotter


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rhonda R. Trotter
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Cumulative
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Ralph B. Perry III


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph B. Perry III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: David and Colleen Pascale


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David and Colleen Pascale
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge Kenneth Lee and Flo Chotiner


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge Kenneth Lee and Flo Chotiner
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Lorraine Wyler, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lorraine Wyler, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: The Partners At Liebert


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  The Partners At Liebert
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Rickard Santwier


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rickard Santwier
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Shirley and Ralph Shapiro


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Shirley and Ralph Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: David R. Pascale, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David R. Pascale, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Jubas Family Foundation


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jubas Family Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: A/H Foundation (Al Friedman)


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  A/H Foundation (Al Friedman)
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Lee W. Salisbury


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lee W. Salisbury
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Charles R. English, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles R. English, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: W.R. "Bob" Spensley, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  W.R. "Bob" Spensley, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Hon. Paul Wyler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Paul Wyler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Cassidy Whitmore, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cassidy Whitmore, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Joseph Taback, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph Taback, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Alan B. Clark


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan B. Clark
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry Stein, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry Stein, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald P. Baker, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald C. Mitchell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C. Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Grace M. Lee, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grace M. Lee, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Vincent M. Townsend, JR., by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Vincent M. Townsend, JR., by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Martin R. Horn


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martin R. Horn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Roy H. Aaron, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Roy H. Aaron, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jeffrey C. Freedman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeffrey C. Freedman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sheryl E. Stein


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheryl E. Stein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hon. Christian E. Markey, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Christian E. Markey, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hon. Terry J. Hatter, JR., by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Terry J. Hatter, JR., by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Kevin J. Kensik


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin J. Kensik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Gina Browne


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gina Browne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Scott Colebank


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scott Colebank
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda L. Curtis


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda L. Curtis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Covert E. Parnell III


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Covert E. Parnell III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Amy E. Garrison


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Amy E. Garrison
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mary Sullivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mary Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Lacba Senior Lawyers Section


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lacba Senior Lawyers Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Grace M. Danziger


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Grace M. Danziger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Alan and Millie Steinbrecher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan and Millie Steinbrecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregory B. Wood


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory B. Wood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Andrew D. Patterson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew D. Patterson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Avril D. Love


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avril D. Love
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald M. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald M. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda Auerbach


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Adriana Lara and Ivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Adriana Lara and Ivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Greg D. and Terry M. Hargrave


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Greg D. and Terry M. Hargrave
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: John D. Carpenter


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Carpenter
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Sharon A. Siefert


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon A. Siefert
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Kevin J. Kensik


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kevin J. Kensik
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Scott Colebank


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scott Colebank
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Meryl K. Chae


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Meryl K. Chae
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ronnie C. Baker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronnie C. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Court, Van Nuys


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Court, Van Nuys
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Matthew T. Heartney


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew T. Heartney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura W. Brill


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura W. Brill
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald M. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald M. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: TSG Reporting, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TSG Reporting, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ronnie C. Baker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronnie C. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregory B. Wood


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregory B. Wood
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: TSG Reporting, Inc


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TSG Reporting, Inc
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Christopher Michael


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Christopher Michael
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Syed A. Hasan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Syed A. Hasan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
            DONOR: Professional Responsibility and Ethics Committee


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Professional Responsibility and Ethics Committee
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Andra Greene


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andra Greene
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Avril D. Love


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Avril D. Love
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mike Switzer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mike Switzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Horvitz and Levy LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Horvitz and Levy LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Lacba's Domestic Violence


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lacba's Domestic Violence
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: Don Mike and Bonnie Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike and Bonnie Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc M. Seltzer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Other
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc M. Seltzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles A. Gessler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Gessler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Howard D. Pilch


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard D. Pilch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Meryl K. Chae


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Meryl K. Chae
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda D. Barker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda D. Barker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Marie Ebersbacher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marie Ebersbacher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ronald W. Stovitz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ronald W. Stovitz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Sandi Marrero


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sandi Marrero
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Cheryl R. Avirom


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cheryl R. Avirom
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kaye Scholer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kaye Scholer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Lacba Senior Lawyers Section


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lacba Senior Lawyers Section
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Members of the Lacba


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Members of the Lacba
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles A. Gessler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Gessler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Victor W. Santochi


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Victor W. Santochi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Mike Switzer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Mike Switzer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian D. Huben


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian D. Huben
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Robert A. Green


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert A. Green
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Deborah A. Ventura


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah A. Ventura
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Henry E. Orren


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Henry E. Orren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robie and Matthai


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robie and Matthai
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Bennett and Erdman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bennett and Erdman
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ellen A. Pansky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ellen A. Pansky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Julie A. DiMauro


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Julie A. DiMauro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: James and Alberta Koehler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James and Alberta Koehler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: David S. Ettinger


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David S. Ettinger
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Sharon Cohn


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon Cohn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Thomas J. Johnston


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Johnston
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda L. Curtis


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda L. Curtis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Howard D. Pilch


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Howard D. Pilch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Charles A. Collier, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles A. Collier, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Peter C. Hsueh


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Peter C. Hsueh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Anthony Paul Diaz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Anthony Paul Diaz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Michael Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: George and Betty Baffa


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  George and Betty Baffa
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lisa Hill Fenning
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Judge and Mrs. Harvey A. Schneider
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Cheryl R. Avirom


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cheryl R. Avirom
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: James R. Robie, by


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Robie, by
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Andrew D. Patterson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrew D. Patterson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura W. Brill


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura W. Brill
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Ivan and Barbara Price


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ivan and Barbara Price
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Patricia L. Glaser


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia L. Glaser
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Blaire Baily


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Blaire Baily
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jeanne Friberg


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jeanne Friberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda D. Barker


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda D. Barker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: LeAnne E. Maillian


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  LeAnne E. Maillian
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Karen L. Stevenson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Karen L. Stevenson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: RPG Productions


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  RPG Productions
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Bruce Ira Sultan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Bruce Ira Sultan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas J. Leanse


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas J. Leanse
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robin C. Huggins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin C. Huggins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: James R. Birnberg


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Birnberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Gina Browne


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gina Browne
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Gerald L. Chaleff


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gerald L. Chaleff
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Ira and Abby Friedman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ira and Abby Friedman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Stude


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Stude
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Victor W. Santochi


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Victor W. Santochi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Sharon Cohn


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sharon Cohn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Wilbur F. Littlefield


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Wilbur F. Littlefield
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robin C. Huggins


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin C. Huggins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: James R. Birnberg


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James R. Birnberg
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Patricia Egan Daehnke


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Egan Daehnke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Kaye Scholer


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kaye Scholer
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                      DONOR: Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hersh, Mannis and Bogen, LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: James I. Ham


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James I. Ham
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Deborah A. Ventura


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Deborah A. Ventura
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Matthew T. Heartney


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Matthew T. Heartney
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane Shay Wald


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Memorial
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane Shay Wald
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon.Margaret M.Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon.Margaret M.Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hyman J. Bradofsky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hyman J. Bradofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Taylor


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Taylor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Knox M. Cologne III


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Knox M. Cologne III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Sarah Heck Griffin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sarah Heck Griffin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea Sheridan Ordin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Sheridan Ordin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Martin H.Webster


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Martin H.Webster
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Scherzer International


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scherzer International
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation
DONOR TYPE:  Foundations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert E. Carlson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert E. Carlson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Lee Smalley Edmon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Danette E.Meyers


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Danette E.Meyers
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Sheldon H. Sloan


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheldon H. Sloan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Joan R. Isaacs


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joan R. Isaacs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                 DONOR: Rusnak


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rusnak
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donna J. Zenor


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donna J. Zenor
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ralph J. Shapiro


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph J. Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Donald P. Baker


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald P. Baker
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Katessa Charles Davis


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Katessa Charles Davis
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John D. Hussey


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John D. Hussey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Robin Meadow


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robin Meadow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John J. Quinn


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Quinn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Daniel J.Woods


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Daniel J.Woods
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Scherzer International


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 2,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Scherzer International
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                   DONOR: TPC


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  TPC
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Thomas V. Girardi


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas V. Girardi
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: John J. Collins


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Collins
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David E. Gordon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David E. Gordon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ruth J. Lavine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Gretchen M. Nelson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gretchen M. Nelson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Hon. Charles S. Vogel


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Charles S. Vogel
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 9,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Donald C.Mitchell


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C.Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Joseph R. Austin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Joseph R. Austin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Donald A. Daucher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald A. Daucher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patricia Phillips


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patricia Phillips
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Rex S. Heinke


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rex S. Heinke
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Edith R. Matthai


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Edith R. Matthai
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Francis M.Wheat


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Francis M.Wheat
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Greiner Consulting


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Greiner Consulting
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                   DONOR: Hon. Richard A. and Ruth J. Lavine


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Richard A. and Ruth J. Lavine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: David J. Pasternak


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David J. Pasternak
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John S.Welch


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John S.Welch
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Holland and Knight


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Holland and Knight
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Harry L. Hathaway


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Harry L. Hathaway
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Don Mike Anthony


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Don Mike Anthony
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Brian K. Condon


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Brian K. Condon
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James C. Martin


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James C. Martin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles R. English


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles R. English
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Leonard S. Janofsky


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Leonard S. Janofsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: John Carson


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John Carson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Alan K. Steinbrecher


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Alan K. Steinbrecher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                                DONOR: Valencia


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Event Sponsorship
DONATION RANGE:  USD 1,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Valencia
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Neal S.Millard


                        LAST UPDATED: December 13, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Neal S.Millard
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                       DONOR: American Corporate Counsel


                        LAST UPDATED: November 19, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  American Corporate Counsel
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 18, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2003

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD 6,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Latham and Watkins LLP


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD 10,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Latham and Watkins LLP
DONOR TYPE:  Corporations

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Ralph J. Shapiro


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ralph J. Shapiro
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura V. Farber


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura V. Farber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard B. Goetz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard B. Goetz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jason B. Komorsky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jason B. Komorsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Kathleen M. McDowell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kathleen M. McDowell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Dennis D. Resh


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dennis D. Resh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David R. Stepp


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David R. Stepp
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rosalyn S. Zakheim


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rosalyn S. Zakheim
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Allan Lasher


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Allan Lasher
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Kimberly H. Clancy


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kimberly H. Clancy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Seth D. Levy


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Seth D. Levy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: David W. Swift


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  David W. Swift
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Elizabeth M. Calciano


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Elizabeth M. Calciano
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Robert S. Gerstein


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert S. Gerstein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Hon. Robert N. Kwan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Robert N. Kwan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Arthur D. Silbergeld


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Arthur D. Silbergeld
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Gregg A. Farley


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Gregg A. Farley
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jo-Ann W. Grace


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jo-Ann W. Grace
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Linda M. Lawson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda M. Lawson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Charles E. Michaels


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Charles E. Michaels
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             480 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Marc L. Sallus


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Marc L. Sallus
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William E. Thomson


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William E. Thomson
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Rachel M. Capoccia


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Rachel M. Capoccia
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Cameron W. Fox


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Cameron W. Fox
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Michael G. Soutar


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Program / Restricted
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael G. Soutar
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Justice H. Walter Croskey


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Justice H. Walter Croskey
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Shirley M. Hufstedler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Shirley M. Hufstedler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: John J. Quinn


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2012

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  John J. Quinn
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Donald C. Mitchell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 50,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Donald C. Mitchell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard Chernick


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard Chernick
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Larry R. Feldman


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Larry R. Feldman
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Patrick M. Kelly


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Patrick M. Kelly
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Hon. Margaret M. Morrow


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Hon. Margaret M. Morrow
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 5,000+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Su-Lyn Combs


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Su-Lyn Combs
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Laura V. Farber


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Laura V. Farber
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Richard B. Goetz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Richard B. Goetz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Jason B. Komorsky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jason B. Komorsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Kathleen M. McDowell


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Kathleen M. McDowell
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             501 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Dennis D. Resh


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Dennis D. Resh
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             502 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Sheryl E. Stein


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sheryl E. Stein
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             503 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Michael J. Wise


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael J. Wise
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             504 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                               DONOR: Eric C. Ho


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Eric C. Ho
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             505 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Jonathan L. Brophy


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jonathan L. Brophy
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Ryan S. LeVine


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Ryan S. LeVine
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             507 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Courtney L. Stuart-Alban


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 500+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Courtney L. Stuart-Alban
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             508 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: William Clark Brown


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  William Clark Brown
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             509 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Thomas A. Freiberg, Jr.
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             510 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Miriam A. Krinsky


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Miriam A. Krinsky
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             511 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Michael and Lara Schwartz


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD 100+

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Michael and Lara Schwartz
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             512 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Susan Koehler Sullivan


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Susan Koehler Sullivan
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             513 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: James N. Adler


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  James N. Adler
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             514 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                              DONOR: Jamie Broder


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jamie Broder
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             515 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Knox M. Cologne III


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Knox M. Cologne III
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             516 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                           DONOR: Sarah Heck Griffin


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Sarah Heck Griffin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             517 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                         DONOR: Lawrence F. Liebenbaum


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Lawrence F. Liebenbaum
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             518 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                          DONOR: Andrea Sheridan Ordin


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Andrea Sheridan Ordin
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             519 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                            DONOR: Robert S. Warren


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Robert S. Warren
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             520 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                             DONOR: Jane H. Barrett


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Jane H. Barrett
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015


                             521 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright 2015 iWave Information System, Inc., All Rights
                                    Reserved
                      VeriGift Charitable Giving by iWave


                  RECIPIENT: Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
                        DONOR: Linda Auerbach Allderdice


                        LAST UPDATED: November 17, 2015
                              DONATION YEAR: 2011

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * TRANSACTION SUMMARY * * * * * * * * * * * * * *


DONATION TYPE:  Annual Gift
DONATION RANGE:  USD Unspecified

* * * * * * * * * * RECIPIENT DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


RECIPIENT:  Los Angeles County Bar Foundation
TAXCODE:  95-2555546
URL:  http://lacba.org
LOCATION:  Los Angeles, CA, 90055
CATEGORY:  Crime Legal Related

* * * * * * * * * * DONOR DETAILS * * * * * * * * * *


DONOR:  Linda Auerbach Allderdice
DONOR TYPE:  Individuals

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2015
