
                               1 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright (c) 2012 Emory Law Journal
                               Emory Law Journal

                                      2012

                               Emory Law Journal

                               62 Emory L.J. 259

LENGTH: 29201 words

ARTICLE: PREDICTIVE POLICING AND REASONABLE SUSPICION

NAME: Andrew Guthrie Ferguson*

BIO: * Assistant Professor of Law, University of the District of Columbia David
A. Clarke School of Law. 2004 LL.M Georgetown University Law School, 2000 J.D.
University of Pennsylvania Law School. With thanks and appreciation to
Professors Christopher Slobogin, David Rudovsky, Arnold Loewy, Cara Drinan,
Steven Morrison, George Mohler, Jeffrey Brantingham, Joel Caplan, and Leslie
Kennedy. Special thanks to Jake Dworkin for his research assistance.

HIGHLIGHT: Very soon we will be moving to a Predictive Policing model where, by
studying real time crime patterns, we can anticipate where a crime is likely to
occur. n1


 TEXT:
 [*261]

   Introduction

 The future of policing blinks on a computer screen in downtown Los Angeles. n2
On that screen, police have predicted the next area of potential criminal
activity. n3 Based on crime data collection, analysis, and computer modeling,
the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is directing patrol officers to a
targeted block of expected crime. n4 In the LAPD's Real Time Analysis and
Critical Response Division, a new concept of "predictive policing" is being
developed based on past crime patterns and sophisticated computer algorithms. n5
Promoted as the next smart policing weapon in the war on crime, its promise is
to predict crime before it happens. n6

   In another part of California, police stake out an area of predicted criminal
activity. As described by the New York Times, in a parking garage forecast to be
the location of future car thefts, two women are arrested after peering into car
windows. n7 One has an open arrest warrant. n8 The other is caught carrying
drugs. n9 Without the predictive tip, it is arguable that peering into windows
in a  [*262]  parking garage is sufficient reason to be stopped and detained by
police. n10 But with the predictive technologies the constitutional questions
become more difficult. Can a computer program that predicts the probability of
future crime locations change Fourth Amendment protections in the targeted area?
Are data-driven "hunches" any more reliable than personal "hunches"
traditionally deemed insufficient to justify reasonable suspicion? n11 What
measures exist to examine the reliability and accuracy of these new policing
tools? n12 These questions, and more, are raised by the use of any predictive
policing strategy.

   This Article addresses the Fourth Amendment consequences of this police
innovation, analyzing the effect of predictive policing on the concept of
reasonable suspicion. More broadly, this Article addresses the theoretical and
doctrinal impact of predictive policing on the Fourth Amendment, leaving for
future projects an empirical study of the program's effectiveness or practical
results. In its current form, the technology is too new to make any definitive
conclusion on its merits as a crime suppression technique. n13 Yet, as can be
seen by the growing interest in the concept of predictive policing in the form
of test programs, major government grants, national news articles, and awards,
the future is now, and the constitutional implications of that future must now
be addressed. n14

   This Article examines predictive policing in the context of the larger
constitutional framework of "prediction" and the Fourth Amendment. Many aspects
of current Fourth Amendment law are implicitly or explicitly based on  [*263]
prediction. n15 Search warrants are predictions that contraband will be found in
a particular location. n16 Investigative detentions are predictions that the
person is committing, or about to commit, a crime. n17 Fourth Amendment concepts
like probable cause, reasonable suspicion, n18 informant tips, n19 drug courier
profiles, n20 high crime areas n21 and others are based on evaluating levels of
probability that criminal activity will occur or is occurring. n22 Predictive
policing both fits within this established tradition and also challenges it in
novel ways. As will be argued, predictive policing may, in fact, necessitate a
reconsideration of some of the existing reasonable suspicion doctrine, as well
as point to refinements in future application. n23

   The Article concludes that in its idealized form, predictive policing will
impact reasonable suspicion analysis and become an important factor in a court's
Fourth Amendment calculus. While never enough alone, this predictive information
will be used to justify stops under existing Fourth Amendment precedent.
Evolving from a rich academic tradition of criminological insights around "crime
and place" and building on real-world experiments with "hotspot" policing, the
theory of predictive policing has both academic and practical grounding. n24 In
addition, in its initial implementation - focused on specific types of property
crime in specific locations under controlled tests - the predictions appear to
have positive results in reducing crime. n25 At the same time, the underlying
rationale of why predictive policing may be effective for certain crimes and
areas may actually lead to a limitation on its applicability. These limitations
should inform future Fourth Amendment analysis in determining reasonable
suspicion. Further, these limitations raise deeper  [*264]  questions about the
reliability, transparency, and application of the technology. Articulating and
framing those theoretical and practical limitations is the task of this Article.

   Part I of this Article canvasses the current state of predictive policing in
the United States. Placed within the context of a two-decade evolution to
data-driven and intelligence-led policing, predictive policing is the next
logical step in using crime data and mapping technologies to reduce crime. n26
This Part briefly examines the history, theoretical background, and current
research on predicting crime patterns, with a focus on the types of crimes that
police departments and researchers are using to test the predictive policing
model.

   Part II of this Article examines prediction as a significant, if unexamined,
aspect of the Fourth Amendment doctrine. Predicting criminal activities based on
probabilities rests at the core of Fourth Amendment concepts such as probable
cause and reasonable suspicion. n27 In addition, the Supreme Court has addressed
the predictive value of information - including informant tips, profiling, and
high crime areas - in a range of cases. n28 This Part distills the principles
emerging from these cases in an effort to ground an analysis of predictive
policing.

   Part III applies the relevant Fourth Amendment analogies to the problem of
predictive policing. Depending on the Fourth Amendment analogy chosen for
analysis (tips, profiles, high crime areas), different problems arise. Notably,
however, under any of the analogies courts will come out with the same answer
under current law. As will be argued, predictive policing will alter the
reasonable suspicion analysis in a direct way, changing the current calculus to
favor a finding of reasonable suspicion. Whether viewed positively or negatively
as a constitutional matter, this shift points to larger problems with a weakened
reasonable suspicion standard. If a law enforcement computer algorithm can
change Fourth Amendment freedoms, then courts have an extra responsibility to
ensure that the technology meets reasonable standards of reliability and
accuracy.

    [*265]  Part IV of the Article addresses the present and future concerns
with using predictive policing technologies. First, this Part looks at the
importance of understanding why predictive technologies work, and it links the
underlying research on prediction to the Fourth Amendment analysis that courts
will soon be required to make. In general, the predictive theories that have
been studied focus exclusively on property crimes. One concern with the adoption
of these technologies is that they may become divorced from the underlying logic
of why certain crime locations can be predicted. In other words, the studies
that focus on property crimes in fixed areas could be applied unthinkingly to
other crimes in other contexts. In addition, this Part looks at ways to assess
the reliability, transparency, and accuracy of the programs, as well as the need
to create mechanisms to avoid manipulation, bias, or uneven application.
Predictive policing, like many new law enforcement strategies, raises issues of
class-based and race-based targeting, as well as general civil liberty concerns.
Finally, this Part looks at some of the potential unintended consequences of
this technology that may actually make certain police stops more difficult to
justify as a constitutional matter.

   I. Predictive Policing: An Introduction

 "Predictive policing refers to any policing strategy or tactic that develops
and uses information and advanced analysis to inform forward-thinking crime
prevention." n29 More objective than a patrol officer's hunch about an area,
predictive policing uses the power of "big data" to isolate patterns in
otherwise random acts. n30 Predictive policing has become a generic term for any
crime fighting approach that includes a reliance on information technology
(usually crime mapping data and analysis), criminology theory, predictive
algorithms, and the use of this data to improve crime suppression on the
streets. n31 In simple terms, predictive policing involves computer models that
predict areas of future crime locations from past crime statistics and other
data. n32

    [*266]  A simple predictive policing model might take historical data about
a particular type of crime, the location and time of that crime, and plot those
past crimes in a way that would inform crime analysts about an unusual cluster
of crimes. n33 As will be discussed later, research studies support the accuracy
of this historically based prediction for certain crimes under certain
circumstances. n34 A more complex predictive policing model might involve
event-based concerns - such as arrests, calls for service, or incident reports -
in combination with place-based concerns, such as addresses of known gang
members, arrestees, parolees, or places of frequent violence or unrest. n35 This
information could be weighted by types of crime (violent crime, property crime)
and even include information about particular individuals, n36 gang activity,
traffic patterns, environmental factors, and other local information. n37 A
computer algorithm would then analyze the data by searching for patterns in
[*267]  areas of statistically more probable criminal activity. n38 Most
relevantly, this predictive information would then inform police administrators
about how to allocate resources to target that specific type of crime. And, in
some sophisticated programs, this information would be provided to officers
patrolling the streets in real-time through a squad car computer or mobile
device. n39

   As an example, currently the Los Angeles Police Department has undertaken an
ambitious pilot project to test the feasibility of predictive policing. n40
Under the leadership of former Police Chief William Bratton, and with the
collaboration of scholars at several California universities, the police have
begun to test the effectiveness of predictive policing focusing on certain
crimes in certain areas. n41 As developed by LAPD Captain Sean Malinowski, and
based on the algorithms created by UCLA Professor Jeffrey Brantingham and
University of Santa Cruz Professor George Mohler, the project focuses on three
specific types of property crime - burglary, automobile theft, and theft from
automobiles. n42 Based on three years worth of data, weighting more recent
crimes more than older crimes and observing patterns, the algorithm seeks to
identify 500-by-500 foot areas of probable criminal activity. n43 Officers are
then directed to those areas of predicted crime. Initial results have been
successful, as non-violent crime has dropped in those areas. Further testing is
being done in a controlled experiment to test the reliability of the results.
n44

    [*268]  A similar experiment is being conducted in Santa Cruz, California.
In Santa Cruz, officers are provided daily "crime forecasts" every morning at
roll call, which direct them to patrol certain designated areas. n45 Each
forecast has a specific prediction - for example, there is a 10.36% likelihood
of a car theft in a particular downtown garage on a particular day. n46 The
times when those car thefts are most likely to occur are also listed. n47 Based
on the research conducted by Professor George Mohler, the predictive policing
algorithm is modeled on seismic aftershock theory and demonstrates that certain
property crimes (again burglary, auto theft, and theft from auto) can be
identified and predicted in small 500-by-500 foot areas. n48 Police officers are
then sent to patrol those areas as part of their regular beats. n49 According to
a Santa Cruz spokesperson, thirteen people have been stopped in the designated
areas in the first six months of the experiment. n50 It is those individuals
stopped within a predicted area that are the subject of this Article. Whether or
not predictive policing works as a matter of crime suppression, it raises Fourth
Amendment challenges for individuals stopped in those areas.

   The Los Angeles and Santa Cruz Police Departments may be ahead of other
cities in testing the predictive policing model, but they are by no means the
only law enforcement agencies using the technique. Jurisdictions as diverse as
Palm Beach County, Florida; n51 Memphis, Tennessee; n52 Chicago, Illinois; n53
[*269]  Minneapolis, Minnesota; n54 and Dallas, Texas, n55 are testing
predictive policing tactics. With federal seed money from the Department of
Justice, other jurisdictions are testing the technology. n56 In addition, cities
with particularized crime problems are using predictive policing to combat those
specific issues. n57

   There are at least three reasons why predictive policing has drawn national
attention and federal financing. n58 First, it is cost-effective in an era of
shrinking municipal and state budgets. n59 Second, it offers promise of a
high-tech,  [*270]  progressive-sounding plan to stop crime, which offers
significant public relations benefits. n60 Third, from early tests in admittedly
small areas, the strategy appears to reduce crime with minimal disruption to
regular policing responsibilities. n61 While the jury is out on the accuracy n62
and cost savings attendant to adopting a predictive policing model, n63 there is
little doubt that adoption of the terminology and the data-driven technology is
growing and will influence police departments, courts, and criminal suspects for
years to come. n64

   A. Predictive Policing: In Context

 Predicting future crime patterns from past crime statistics is neither as
futuristic nor as far-fetched as it might initially sound. In fact, predictive
policing can be viewed as part of an evolution to intelligence-driven policing
techniques that rely on scientifically grounded principles and decades of
criminological theory on crime and place. n65 This section briefly sets out the
[*271]  history, theory, and research studies that support the predictive
policing model. While current models of predictive policing do not purport to be
directly based on these theories, this criminological research informs any
evaluation of its legitimacy as a tool that could have constitutional
consequences.

   1. Intelligence-Led Policing and Theories of Crime and Place

 In recent years, intelligence-led policing has become an influential theory in
the growing study of law enforcement practices. n66 Distinct from other theories
such as "community policing" n67 or the "broken windows" theory of policing, n68
intelligence-led policing focuses on crime data, analysis, and targeted police
efforts in response to that data. n69 Large cities such as New York City, Los
Angeles, and Chicago have embraced crime mapping technologies using objective
crime data to determine police staffing and patrols. n70 Problem areas are
identified through crime statistics, and significant police resources are
directed at those particular areas. n71 As evidenced by a significant drop in
crime  [*272]  rates in these cities, these types of smart-policing tactics have
been widely hailed as successful innovations in the law enforcement community.
n72

   At one level, predictive policing is merely the next iteration of this
intelligence-led policing concept. n73 Analysts have moved from identifying past
crime patterns to predicting the next crime location within that pattern. n74 To
take an easy example, if there are assault arrests every Saturday evening at a
particular bar at closing time, then it would not be difficult to predict that
on a future Saturday night there might be a bar fight at that location.
Stationing a police officer at the door at closing time might prevent future
fights. The theory of predictive policing is that by aggregating all reported
crimes with similar time, place, and crime criteria, important insights into
larger crime patterns in a jurisdiction could be obtained.

   This focus on identifiable places of criminal activity exists within a
well-developed theoretical construct that criminologists have been developing
for decades. It is now generally acknowledged that crime does not randomly
disperse across a geographic area. n75 Instead, crime is clustered in particular
areas that usually can be explained as a function of certain environmental
factors that create vulnerabilities for victims at certain times. n76 These
"hotspots" of crime have been well-documented in academic literature and  [*273]
confirmed by daily police reports. n77 The result is that crime
disproportionately affects certain victims at particular places. n78

   Traditionally, this type of hotspot analysis would involve a retrospective
mapping of crime clusters in a particular area. Reported crimes would be mapped
by coordinates on a searchable computer map, and areas of heightened criminal
activity would be noted. n79 Use of hotspot technology has resulted in some
surprising results. n80 For example, half of the crime in Seattle over a
fourteen-year period could be isolated to only 4.5% of city streets. n81
Similarly, researchers in Minneapolis, Minnesota found that 3.3% of street
addresses and intersections in Minneapolis generated 50.4% of all dispatched
police calls for service. n82 This type of analysis can be broken down by type
of crime and location. Researchers in Boston found that only 8% of street
segments accounted for 66% of all street robberies over a twenty-eight-year
period. n83 Traditional hotspot analysis can also isolate patterns in time of
crime n84 or locations of crime. n85 To be clear, traditional hotspot mapping
does not directly  [*274]  present a theory to predict future crime. Clearly
repeated patterns of localized crime suggest an inference that the environmental
conditions are ripe for future crime, n86 but the identification of hotspots
does not necessarily involve prediction. Predictive policing takes this
traditional retrospective analysis and applies it prospectively.

   Different theories have been posited for why concentration of criminal
activity occurs. Event-based theories like the routine activities theory suggest
that crime is likely to occur "when motivated offenders converge, suitable
targets exist, and capable guardians are lacking." n87 Place-based theories
focus instead on vulnerabilities in the location as the reason for the criminal
activity. n88 These vulnerabilities can include simple factors such as poor
lighting, lack of police surveillance, attractive victims, or easy escape
routes, among many other possibilities. Of course, a place does not create
crime, n89 so more contextual theories have been developed, such as pattern
theory, which examines the "environmental backcloth" n90 as inviting a space for
criminal activity. n91 Other scholars have offered an opportunity theory that
focuses on  [*275]  the availability of criminal targets as the determining
factor for criminal acts, since criminals tend to stay local and look for easy
opportunities. n92

   No matter the chosen theory, the recognition that the risk of crime increases
because of identifiable environmental factors has clear implications for
predictive policing. n93 If police can identify a location of potential crime,
and understand the relevant environmental factors for that predicted crime, then
police can focus their resources on those locations as future problem areas for
police attention. n94

   This insight about place and crime answers a critical question for any
policing theory - in asking why people commit particular crimes at particular
locations, we generate information not only about when they may commit the next
crime but also how to stop it. For example, applying routine activities theory
to a pattern of residential burglaries requires the presence of an offender, a
target, and the absence of a guardian. n95 An offender will target a home or
homes in an area if vulnerabilities exist, such as the absence of law
enforcement, weak structural protections, or a lack of community vigilance. n96
Adding a guardian (a police officer) to the location of those burglaries will
likely remove the vulnerability, decreasing the likelihood of another burglary.
Similarly, the opportunity theory might argue the following:



    Having targeted a particular home for the first time, a burglar acquires
knowledge to inform future targeting decisions. This may concern the internal
layout of a burgled property, the ease of access  [*276]  and escape, the
products that may be found were the offender to return, the risks of
identification, and so on. This knowledge is likely to reduce uncertainty about
nearby homes. n97

 Changing the ease of access or escape or adding uncertainty in the form of
locks, police presence, security lights, etc., may alter the calculus for a
potential opportunity thief. Understanding why people commit the crimes by
understanding the environmental vulnerabilities can affect decisions about how
to stop the next crime before it happens.

   Predictive policing applies these criminological insights in two ways. First,
it recognizes that the past patterns identify an opportunity to ask why. What in
the environment of that space has increased the risk of that particular crime?
Second, by directing law enforcement personnel to that area, the environmental
vulnerability may be removed. By disrupting the routine activities, the pattern,
or the opportunity, police may be able to prevent the next crime. n98 As a pure
law enforcement matter, this disruptive/preventive effect may be the most
important result. Crime may go down simply by establishing a police presence in
an area.

   2. Predictive Models of Crime

 The general theory of crime and place has been refined by scholars who have
looked at different crime patterns as predictors of future crime. n99 This
research gives legitimacy to the theory behind predictive policing, even if the
research is not directed at any formal examination of predictive policing
itself. n100 In time, of course, researchers will evaluate the reliability and
validity of official predictive policing strategies. At this time, however, one
can only look at analogous research studies to examine whether the predictive
policing model offers a reliable and valid method of prediction that will
survive Fourth  [*277]  Amendment scrutiny. As will be discussed in Part IV, if
the predictive methods are not reliable, valid, and transparent, they will not
be able to support the level of suspicion required for a constitutional stop.

   Two representative predictive models are addressed below: near repeat theory
n101 and risk terrain modeling. n102 Both offer sophisticated theories about why
police might be able to predict certain types of crime in certain locations. A
key point in understanding these studies and, thus, the reliability of analogous
predictive models is to identify the limitations inherent in the studies. As
will be discussed, the predictive policing model may only work for certain types
of crimes in certain areas.

   a. Near Repeat Theory

 Near repeat theory seeks to identify and explain the phenomenon that certain
crimes seem to generate repeat criminal activity at the same place. n103 The
theory posits that once a particular location has been subject to a crime, it is
statistically more likely that that location and the close environs will be
subject to additional, similar crime events during a brief time frame after the
initial crime. n104 Residential burglary, automobile theft, and theft from
automobiles share certain characteristics that make reliable prediction more
likely. n105

   Significant research has been done on residential burglary, which has
consistently demonstrated a near-repeat pattern. n106 In the most exhaustive
[*278]  study of ten different jurisdictions across an international spectrum,
residential burglaries showed a near-repeat phenomenon despite different
cultural environments. n107 Specifically, a successive burglary occurred within
100 meters and two weeks of the initial burglary at a statistically significant
rate. n108 Noting the near-repeat studies, one scholar stated, "Burglary
victimization appears to be contagious. In the wake of a burglary, properties
near the victim's property run heightened burglary risks as well." n109 Studies
from England and Canada show that the chance of near-repeat burglary
victimization is four n110 to twelve n111 times higher than a random occurrence.
While not definitive, these statistics show a pattern that might be useful for
predicting future burglaries. n112 In fact, some proponents of predictive
policing argue that with the appropriate technology they can "predict and deter
about 15 percent of burglaries" in a given area. n113

   Two theories have been put forth to explain why the near-repeat phenomenon
occurs in residential burglaries. n114 Flag theory posits that some properties
are vulnerable and "effectively advertise their vulnerability." n115 Flag theory
applied to burglaries means that "burglaries at the same location may simply be
the work of different offenders who respond to similar signals of  [*279]
target attractiveness or accessibility. Attractive opportunities are overtly
flagged for all to see." n116 Boost theory, in contrast, argues that repeat
victimization occurs because some information learned by the original offenders
enhances (boosts) the vulnerability of the home. n117 As one article has
described:



   The rationale ... was that having burgled one property, offenders would
become more familiar with and, consequently, target nearby households. Good
reasons for this hypothesis exist. For instance, houses nearest to each other
are likely to share more features that may inform offender targeting decisions
than those located further away. Such features include access and escape routes,
internal and external architectural layouts, levels of natural surveillance, and
the availability of desirable goods. As already noted, the results of the
studies validated the hypothesis, demonstrating that burglary clusters in space
and time. n118

 One reason for repeat victimization may be simply that it is the same
individuals or gangs committing the crimes. n119 One researcher "found that 76%
of the burglars he interviewed had gone back to a number of houses after a
varying period of time to burgle them between two and five times." n120 However,
the research also suggests that the boost theory may account for the change.
n121 Essentially, certain kinds of crime might be considered communicable, like
a contagious virus that infects not only the particular  [*280]  burglarized
property, but also those in close proximity. n122 In boost theory, information
about an environmental vulnerability spreads and a subsequent crime occurs
because of that spread. n123 If accurate, this type of information can inform
predictive theories and direct police resources to stop the spread of
burglaries. n124

   Two caveats must be mentioned about these studies. First, while other crimes
such as automobile theft n125 and theft from automobiles n126 have been
analogized to residential burglary as having similar near-repeat effects, not
all crime fits this category. Residences are not only fixed, but nearby
residences may share similar designs, demographic factors, transportation
infrastructures, housing density, and lighting issues. n127 Such similarities
may not exist for other crimes. n128 The second limitation in the studies
recognizes the temporal  [*281]  limitation of the near-repeat phenomenon. n129
A consistent finding in the studies was that "a large number of repeat incidents
occur within 1 week of an antecedent, and the risk of repeat victimisation
appears to decay over time." n130 Thus, any predictions of future burglaries
would have to be within this limited window.

   The conclusion from this brief overview is that the near-repeat pattern can
be validated for some types of crime, but has not been for others. In fact, the
very reason why the theory might work for property crimes, such as burglary and
automobile theft, may make it inappropriate to apply to other interpersonal or
violent crimes that are not so place-based. Similarly, while there has been
consistency within the jurisdictions tested, this does not mean that the theory
would hold for all jurisdictions. n131 Finally, it is important to note the
relatively few studies done, and thus there is a justifiable caution about
expanding the findings beyond the carefully controlled study areas.

   b. Risk Terrain Modeling

 A second predictive theory involves what is called risk terrain modeling. "Risk
terrain modeling (RTM) offers a way of looking at criminality as less determined
by previous events and more a function of a dynamic interaction between social,
physical and behavioral factors that occurs at places." n132 RTM identifies
particular risk factors for crime and maps them with a multi-layered computer
mapping system. n133 As described by its creators:



   RTM assigns a value signifying the presence, absence or intensity of each
risk factor at every place throughout a given geography. Each  [*282]  factor is
represented by a separate terrain (risk map layer) of the same geography. When
all map layers are combined in a GIS [Geographic Information System], they
produce a composite map - a risk terrain map - where every place throughout the
geography is assigned a composite risk value that accounts for all factors
associated with the particular crime outcome. The higher the risk value the
greater the likelihood of a crime event occurring at that location. n134

 For example, in analyzing burglaries in Morris County, New Jersey, an RTM map
was created using five variables: "(1) past burglaries, (2) the residential
location of individuals arrested for theft or burglary between 2009 and 2011,
(3) the proximity to major highways, (4) the geographic concentration of males
between the ages of 16 and 24, n135[]] and (5) the location of apartment
complexes and hotels." n136 The result led police administrators to redirect
available police resources to those identified locations and ultimately to an
overall decrease in both general crime and more specifically violent crime and
property crime. n137 By isolating variables that correspond with past crimes and
environmental factors, RTM was able to focus attention on the likely areas of
criminal activity.

   Beyond residential burglary, risk terrain modeling has been applied to
violent crimes, n138 including shooting patterns in Newark, New Jersey n139 and
Irvington, New Jersey. n140 Notably, by applying the theory to interpersonal and
violent crime, RTM has broadened the reach of the predictive policing  [*283]
model. n141 As a comparative academic matter, risk terrain modeling appears to
predict future shooting incidents better than hotspot analysis. n142 As a
practical matter for law enforcement attempting to address what would seem to be
more geographically random types of crimes like shootings, RTM seems to offer
great promise. For example, RTM researchers who studied shootings in Irvington,
New Jersey describe:



   [Research indicates] four risk factors that previous empirical research found
to be correlated with shooting incidents: Gang members; bus stops; schools; and
facilities of bars, clubs, fast-food restaurants, and liquor stores.

   [Risk terrain modeling] ... of places in Irvington that share the locations
and spatial influences of all aforementioned shooting risk factors has high
predictive validity... . For every increased unit of risk, the likelihood of a
shooting more than doubles ... . Stated another way, the likelihood of a
shooting happening at particular 100-foot-by-100-foot places in Irvington during
2007 increases by 143 percent as each additional risk factor affects that place.

   Looked at in a different way ... more than 42 percent of all shooting
incidents occurred in the top 10 percent of the highest risk places during
calendar year 2007 ... . n143

 While there may be some debate about the variables included in the algorithm,
what would otherwise be considered random shootings were actually able to be
predicted to a large degree. n144 While studies are limited and the technology
new, one can see the attraction of this type of innovation that potentially
reduces violent crime, as well as property crime.

    [*284]  Risk terrain mapping for shootings offers two insights similar to
the near repeat theory for residential burglaries. First, some predictions are
focused on the offenders themselves who might engage in repeated or retaliatory
actions. n145 The violent actions occur in a social fabric and patterns of risk
are also communicable as gang reacts to gang, or individuals seek revenge on one
another. n146 Second, some of the reasons for the violence are due to
environmental factors that make those locations more conducive to shootings.
n147

   This summary shows that sophisticated mapping and analysis technologies exist
that may be able to address a broader range of crimes. Jurisdictions may adapt
predictive policing techniques beyond property-based crimes to more complex and
serious violent crimes. The question that remains, of course, is not whether
these analytical models should be used, but whether law enforcement practices
arising from these analyses will be applied consistently with constitutional
rights.

   B. Predictive Policing: Future Cases

 While beyond the scope of this paper, predictive policing models are also being
considered to address other identifiable risk environments. Predictive models
can be used to locate areas for heightened surveillance or to mitigate risk by
removing or altering environmental dangers. n148 In addition, predictive models
are being used to target known human risk factors such as criminal gangs. n149
For example, one study has applied the place-based approach to gangs that also
exist in an established (and usually contested) territorial geographic area.
n150 It has not been determined whether the models hold for  [*285]  these types
of crimes, but some jurisdictions are considering the possibilities. n151

   In addition, one could imagine that predictive policing models could also be
established for individuals, or at least individuals on probation or parole.
n152 In some jurisdictions, predictive evaluations of recidivism are factored
into prison release monitoring. n153 In others, researchers are testing
statistical models for recidivism of pretrial defendants. n154 The question
remains whether one could really predict an individual's future crime without
running into the limitations of a probability-based crime system. As predictive
policing is still just being implemented under a property-based crime model,
this Article does not analyze these future concerns, but merely raises them for
consideration.

   The next Part contextualizes the idea of prediction in the Fourth Amendment
by looking at the various potential theories under which predictive policing
could be analyzed.

   II. Prediction and the Fourth Amendment

 The Fourth Amendment protects against unreasonable searches and seizures,
establishing both a reasonableness requirement and a warrant  [*286]
requirement for most searches, seizures, and arrests. n155 In order to interfere
with a person's Fourth Amendment rights, law enforcement officers must have
either probable cause to search or reasonable suspicion to seize an individual.
n156 To establish that there is reasonable suspicion for a stop, police must "be
able to point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with
rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant that intrusion." n157
Many times determining what is "reasonable" or whether sufficient probable cause
exists in a given case involves a predictive judgment by a judge or law
enforcement official.

   In the search warrant context, a magistrate judge may have to determine
whether "there is a fair probability that contraband or evidence of a crime will
be found in a particular place." n158 That fair probability is a prediction
based on available information. n159 It is always possible that the contraband
will be gone, but there is a prediction that police will find it. n160 The
prediction usually includes a temporal element because information can grow
stale. n161 In addition, it is usually particularized to a specific area or
person to be searched. The controlling standard of probable cause, as the name
suggests, turns on probabilities. n162 Predicting those probable outcomes rests
on predictive guesses about whether the evidence or person sought will be at a
particular location at a particular time. n163

    [*287]  In non-warrant situations, prediction is also a critical element of
analysis. Police officers regularly take action in anticipation of criminal
activity. n164 Stakeouts, ongoing surveillance, and undercover investigations
focus not only on past crimes, but also future crimes. n165 On the street, a
Terry stop based on reasonable suspicion that "criminal activity may be afoot"
is at base a prediction that the facts and circumstances warrant the reasonable
prediction that a crime is occurring or will occur. n166 Again, the controlling
legal standard speaks in terms of predictive considerations. n167 In others
words, to justify a stop, the police have to predict that a person is actively
committing a crime. That prediction comes from the available information, which
in turn involves a judgment about the information's quality, source, and
reliability among other factors. n168 The same temporal and individualized
requirements exist, as does the recognition that sometimes the predictions are
wrong. n169

   As will be discussed in the next sections, this predictive analysis changes
depending on whether the prediction focuses on specific individuals suspected of
crimes, identifiable groups suspected of criminal activity, or areas that
generate criminal activity. n170 Because there are as of yet no reported cases
on predictive policing in the Fourth Amendment context, this Part looks at
possible analogies from which to analyze the constitutional issues. The focus is
to distill principles to analyze the potential issues with predictive policing.
[*288]  First, focusing on prediction of specific individuals, the next section
looks at "tip cases" in which police are provided a predictive tip that an
individual will commit a crime or is committing a crime. The second section
focuses on group suspicion and the use of "profiles" to predict future or
current criminal activity at a location. The third section analyzes the courts'
use of the "high crime area" designation to weigh suspicion in certain
designated areas of predicted criminal activity.

   While none of the analogies fit perfectly, they all independently point to
the same outcome. Predictive policing technologies will alter Fourth Amendment
reasonable suspicion analysis, adding to the totality of circumstances from
which courts can find reasonable suspicion for a seizure. As will be discussed,
following current precedent, predictive policing forecasts will end up being
seen as a "plus factor" to find reasonable suspicion. However, the use of
predictive policing forecasts alone will not constitute sufficient information
to justify reasonable suspicion or probable cause for a Fourth Amendment
seizure.

   A. Tips: Predicting Criminal Activities of Specific Individuals

 Most police investigation focuses on individual suspects. Perhaps police
observation reveals criminal activity, perhaps police receive an informant tip,
or perhaps circumstantial evidence suggests police focus on a particular
individual. No matter the method of investigation, at some point police will
need to interfere with the liberty interests of the individual and, thus, create
a tension with Fourth Amendment protections. n171 Determining the level of
suspicion necessary for a reasonable stop, seizure, or arrest is a predictive
judgment. The legal standards of probable cause and reasonable suspicion are
based on predicting probable outcomes from past information. n172

   To analyze the intersection of prediction and reasonable suspicion, it is
useful to look at the anonymous tip and informant tip cases of the Supreme
Court. As will be discussed, one way to analyze the constitutionality of
predictive policing technologies is to consider the predictive algorithm  [*289]
analogous to a data-driven "tip" that crime will occur. While the analogy is
inexact, one could imagine a parallel situation to the predictive policing
forecast, in which an informant calls police to predict that drugs will be sold
on a certain block at a certain time, or that a particular house will be
burglarized. How courts evaluate that human tip will inform how they might
consider the predictive computer tip.

   1. Anonymous Tip Cases

 The Fourth Amendment requires reasonable suspicion to stop a specific
individual based on a tip. The Supreme Court has stated that "an informant's
"veracity,' "reliability,' and "basis of knowledge' - remain "highly relevant in
determining the value'" of the tip. n173 This legal standard derives from
Illinois v. Gates, the Supreme Court's seminal case on probable cause involving
an anonymous informant. n174

   Gates, like many predictive cases, involved a prediction that certain
contraband would be in the possession of two specific, named individuals who had
been identified through an anonymous letter. n175 In Gates, police had no
information about the informer or the basis of knowledge about the tip, n176
however, many of the details in the tip accurately predicted future events. n177
This corroboration of predicted actions observed by police officers created
probable cause to justify the search. n178 Gates relied on Draper v. United
States, n179 a case that also rested a finding of probable cause on the level of
[*290]  corroborated detail in a predictive tip. n180 In Draper, the anonymous
informant accurately predicted the city, train, and physical and clothing
description of the suspect who was thought to be carrying narcotics. n181 The
Supreme Court reasoned that such detailed predictive information demonstrated
that the informant had inside information about the suspect and the crime and,
thus, the tip was reliable. n182 Both Gates and Draper stand for the proposition
that detailed, individualized prediction corroborated by police observation can
support a finding of probable cause. n183 The predictive judgment of probable
cause is to be considered in a non-technical manner usable by officers on the
street. n184 This analysis also has been adopted to govern the reasonable
suspicion calculus for informant tips. n185

   The Supreme Court has explicitly addressed informant tips and reasonable
suspicion in two major cases, providing both support and establishing limits for
the use of informant tips. First, in Alabama v. White, an anonymous tip that was
corroborated by some predictive details was found to be just enough to establish
reasonable suspicion. n186 In White, police received an anonymous call stating
that the suspect would be leaving a particular apartment at a particular time in
a particular "brown Plymouth station wagon with the right taillight lens broken,
[and] that she would be going to Dobey's Motel, and that she would be in
possession of about an ounce of cocaine inside a brown attache case." n187
Following up on the tip, police observed the brown Plymouth station wagon with a
broken taillight at the correct address and "they followed the vehicle as it
drove the most direct route to Dobey's Motel. When the vehicle reached  [*291]
the Mobile Highway, on which Dobey's Motel is located, Corporal Reynolds
requested a patrol unit to stop the vehicle." n188 Police stopped the car and
searched it with Ms. White's consent. n189

   Following the reasoning of Gates, the Supreme Court found the prediction
detailed enough, timely enough, and individualized enough to justify reasonable
suspicion. n190 The Court focused on the substantial corroboration of the tip:



   What was important was the caller's ability to predict respondent's future
behavior, because it demonstrated inside information - a special familiarity
with respondent's affairs. The general public would have had no way of knowing
that respondent would shortly leave the building, get in the described car, and
drive the most direct route to Dobey's Motel. Because only a small number of
people are generally privy to an individual's itinerary, it is reasonable for
police to believe that a person with access to such information is likely to
also have access to reliable information about that individual's illegal
activities. n191

 The Court emphasized that because there was a low degree of reliability and no
information about the basis of knowledge, such a tip requires more corroboration
to establish reasonable suspicion. n192 In other words, the weak reliability of
the tip has to be compensated for with greater direct corroboration of predicted
details.

   In contrast, the Supreme Court later held an anonymous tip that did not
involve predictive detail or inside information to be insufficient to justify
reasonable suspicion for a stop. n193 In Florida v. J.L., "an anonymous caller
reported to the Miami-Dade Police that a young black male standing at a
particular bus stop and wearing a plaid shirt was carrying a gun." n194 In
response to this tip, "one of the officers approached J.L., told him to put his
[*292]  hands up on the bus stop, frisked him, and seized a gun from J.L.'s
pocket." n195 As the Court acknowledged, while the general description of the
suspect was predicted, "apart from the tip, the officers had no reason to
suspect [J.L.] of illegal conduct. The officers did not see a firearm, and J.L.
made no threatening or otherwise unusual movements." n196 The Court
distinguished White because in White, the "tipster had inside knowledge about
the suspect and therefore [it was reasonable for the police officer] to credit
his assertion about the cocaine." n197 In J.L., the prediction did not mention
criminal action that was corroborated by police observation, and thus the
prediction alone could not justify reasonable suspicion. n198

   Four important principles can be distilled from the Court's reliance on
prediction in the context of anonymous informant tips. First, the prediction
must be individualized not only to a specific person, but also to ongoing
criminal activity of that specific person. Second, the predictive tip must be
corroborated by police observation, which means corroboration of both the
specific individual and the ongoing crime. n199 Third, the predictive value of
the tip turns on the level of particularized detail involved in the prediction.
Fourth, the timing of the prediction matters, as tips must be fresh to be
useful. n200 These themes of individualization, corroboration, particularized
detail, and timing are central to the Fourth Amendment analysis for reasonable
suspicion.

   2. Known Informant Tips

 While focused on anonymous tips, the Court in Gates also recognized that known
informant tips or police informant tips can sometimes be relied upon if there is
a demonstrated history of reliability. n201 As the Court stated:

    [*293]

If, for example, a particular informant is known for the unusual reliability of
his predictions of certain types of criminal activities in a locality, his
failure, in a particular case, to thoroughly set forth the basis of his
knowledge surely should not serve as an absolute bar to a finding of probable
cause based on his tip. n202

 In other words, established reliability can make up for a lack in basis of
knowledge. Thus, the analysis of veracity, reliability, and basis of knowledge
can be more easily evaluated in known informant cases because the reliability of
the informant can be more easily judged. n203 In so holding, the Supreme Court,
in Gates and later cases, recognized that the strength or weakness of a tip
could be balanced by different levels of direct corroboration through
observation. A weak, unreliable tip could be bolstered by more corroboration.
n204 A strong, reliable tip needed less corroboration. n205 This balancing along
a continuum of suspicion could be considered in the totality analysis.

   As will be discussed, predictive policing may be more analogous to a known
informant case. Assuming the predictive policing model is reliable, it may
matter less that the basis of knowledge is difficult to prove.

   B. Profiles: Predicting Criminal Activities Based on Shared Characteristics

 Another predictive Fourth Amendment situation involves a suspicion that a
person sharing certain common characteristics will be committing a crime. Most
easily observed in "profiling" cases, certain shared characteristics or actions
are thought to predict criminal activity in certain areas. Drug courier
profiling, illegal immigration profiling, and group profiling have been
addressed by courts, and they have generally been acknowledged as a relevant
factor to be considered in determining reasonable suspicion. n206 For purposes
of  [*294]  this section, the focus is on how courts have analyzed the
predictive weight of this generalized suspicion in certain areas. n207 In
addition, this section analyzes the use of pure probabilistic analysis for
reasonable suspicion. While courts are reluctant to consider pure probabilities
in evaluating the predictive value of generalized suspicion, there has been
significant academic debate on the issue. Since predictive policing technology
actually establishes a numerical probability that a particular area will be a
place of potential crime, this line of reasoning will be addressed as well.

   1. Profiling as Prediction

 Courts regularly allow generalized suspicion in the form of group-based
identifiers to justify a stop. In a robbery case, individuals who fit the
witness's description of the suspect can be stopped. n208 On a known drug
corner, individuals suspected of participating in a drug buy can be stopped.
n209 At airports, train stations, and buses, people fitting general profiles for
a drug courier can be stopped and questioned. n210 Along the border, individuals
who are suspected of being illegal immigrants can be stopped. n211 Even the
questionable practice of racial profiling can be considered a series of
predictive suppositions that lead to suspicion. n212 As Bernard Harcourt has
observed, "The  [*295]  fact is that the police do not profile on race alone.
They also profile on car models, vehicle attributes, rental cars, stickers,
location, direction, motorist appearance, age, etc. The police use these various
attributes - as well as, possibly, race - to narrow down the pool of likely
suspects." n213 Each of these Fourth Amendment police-citizen stops is based on
a predictive judgment that the individual will be engaging in criminal activity.
As will be discussed, courts have upheld the use of these profiles against
repeated Fourth Amendment challenges. n214

   Most clearly, the Supreme Court has referenced the drug courier profile in
several cases, without directly addressing the constitutionality of the
predictive profile. n215 United States v. Sokolow recognized that a drug courier
profile is not an irrelevant or inappropriate consideration that, taken in the
totality of circumstances, can be considered in a reasonable suspicion
determination. n216 Sokolow involved a young man traveling from Hawaii to
Florida in the summer, with a two-day stay over. He purchased his tickets in
cash and with what appeared to be a fake name. n217 While none of these factors
alone were criminal or suspicious, together they fit a drug courier profile as
established by the Drug Enforcement Agency. n218

   The Court in Sokolow acknowledged the probabilistic basis of the profile, but
it avoided any sustained analysis of what level of probability was required.
n219 As some critics have pointed out, "The government failed to  [*296]
provide empirical proof for its claim that the drug courier profile has reliable
predictive value." n220 Further, others, including Justice Marshall in dissent,
pointed out that even if predictive in the short run, the profiles have
questionable utility since drug couriers will just change their behavior to
avoid suspicion. n221 In other contexts, scholars have challenged the empirical
basis of the predictive value of profiling and found it lacking. n222
Nevertheless, the current law from the Supreme Court and other courts recognizes
that a predictive profile can be a relevant, if not controlling, factor for
reasonable suspicion. n223

   The drug courier profile (and other profiles) exists as an example of
predictive evidence, predicated on the belief that the "probability that a
person who engages in the conduct highlighted by the profile is a drug courier
is higher than the probability for the population at large." n224 As Judge
Charles Becton has acknowledged in his article on drug courier profiling, the
predictive value of profiles combines subjective "clinical predictions" that are
individualized to a particular person with "statistical predictions" that are
based on general formulas with "predetermined characteristics" of generic
individuals. n225 This hybrid model gives significant power to the officers to
[*297]  make not only legitimate individualized judgments, but also illegitimate
arbitrary judgments that can be retrospectively justified by the profile. n226
Because the profile exists and is generalized enough to be manipulated, n227 it
is hard for courts to decide whether the stop is legitimate or not. n228
Further, because the agents control the profile, they can create a
self-fulfilling prophesy by only stopping those who fit the profile, thus
strengthening the seeming validity of the profile even if it does not match the
reality of who is engaged in drug couriering. n229

   2. Predictive Actions

 A less defined category of cases involves profiling certain actions as
predictors of criminal wrongdoing. Flight, evasive action, furtive movements,
hand-to-hand exchanges, and aggressive driving can all warrant suspicion based
on predictive judgments that such actions correspond with ongoing criminal
activity. n230 For situations in which there is an expected criminal activity in
a particular location not because of a profile, but because of generalizations
from past activities, the group trait can help to establish individualized
suspicion. n231 For example, in an area known for weapons offenses, a bulge in a
waistband might be considered a sign of carrying a gun. n232 On a known drug
corner, a hand-to-hand exchange of money for small objects might be indicative
of a drug deal. While this may stretch the concept of prediction a bit far, the
reality is that underlying the suspicion is the prediction of criminal activity.

    [*298]  In each of the cases involving profiling group traits or generalized
activities, several principles can be distilled in evaluating reasonable
suspicion. n233 First, the profile must be particularized enough to distinguish
the profiled individual from the rest of the public. n234 Second, the suspicion
based on a group trait must still be corroborated by direct observation of the
officer. A report that a suspect matched a drug courier profile would not be
useful if the officers did not corroborate that, in fact, the person did match
the profile upon observation. Third, suspicion based on general characteristics
is limited by location. A drug courier profile would not be useful in an area
with no known drug problem, such that the presence of an established drug
problem should be part of the profile. Fourth, the suspicion must be connected
to an identifiable, on-going specific type of crime. It would not be sufficient
to have a general "criminal" profile that covered all types of crimes (even if
some criminals engage in multiple criminal acts). n235 Finally, the profile has
an implicit temporal element in that as criminals adapt to the profile, the
existing profiles must be modified or abandoned. n236

   3. Probabilities as Prediction

 A final related concern may be pure probabilities as predictive judgments.
While the Supreme Court has recognized that the question of reasonable suspicion
deals "with probabilities," it has never relied on a purely probabilistic
analysis for reasonable suspicion. n237 Lower courts have upheld arrest warrants
on DNA matches and other forensic science matches based on pure probabilities,
but there has never been a Supreme Court case in which the probability of crime
explicitly has been used as the sole justification for a stop. n238

    [*299]  This does not mean that the question has not been raised and
addressed in the abstract. As Professor Arnold Loewy posed in an article on the
Fourth Amendment:



   Suppose that in a particular city block of Main Street, between Fourth and
Main and Fifth and Main, it could be established demographically that nine out
of every ten men on the street between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. are carrying drugs.
Would that create probable cause (or reasonable suspicion) to arrest any man
found on that block of Main Street at the requisite hours?

   The answer, I believe, is "no." Probable cause and reasonable suspicion
require more than demographic probabilities. There must be something specific to
the defendant to create the probability as to him (perhaps a furtive gesture, an
informant's tip, excessive nervousness, etc.). n239

 Other scholars might disagree and would hold such a probability is sufficient
to create reasonable suspicion. n240 Real world hypotheticals can easily be
imagined. For example, what if predictive policing technology could be improved
such that on a notorious drug corner the likelihood of a drug sale on a
particular day was 90% or higher? Would the conclusion that police need more
than just the probability hold? n241

   Similarly, what if the probabilities exist but are statistically quite low?
For example, in one reported situation the predictive policing information
provided to the Santa Cruz police officer was that there was a 2.06% probability
of a  [*300]  crime happening that day at a particular location. n242 How should
a court evaluate the predictive impact of this criminal forecast; does a 2.06%
likelihood create reasonable suspicion? Must there be a determined numerical
probability? Such low probabilities may well weigh against a finding of
reasonable suspicion based on the forecast data.

   Finally, there exists the problem of relative probability. As I have argued
elsewhere, in the high crime area context there exists a denominator problem.
n243 Just as "high" is a relative term that requires an understanding of lower
crime areas, drawing lines for predictive probabilities presents similar
problems. If one block is forecast to have a 9% likelihood of burglary, and
another block a 19% likelihood, is the 9% area less persuasive because there are
other higher percentage areas? So far courts have been quite uncomfortable
drawing such lines, but the questions remain.

   C. High Crime Areas: Predicting Criminal Activities in Places

 Considerations of prediction can also be observed in courts' evaluations of the
high crime area factor in reasonable suspicion cases. n244 After Illinois v.
Wardlow, the high crime nature of an area can be considered in evaluating the
officer's objective suspicion. n245 As predictive policing technology seeks to
predict certain areas of higher potential criminal activity, this line of cases
has clear relevance.

   After about thirty years of acknowledged, but imprecise usage, the high crime
area term of art reached its peak in Wardlow, in which it became one of only two
factors considered in a totality of circumstances analysis for reasonable
suspicion. n246 In Wardlow, "high crime area" plus "unprovoked  [*301]  flight
upon noticing the police" resulted in reasonable suspicion to stop Mr. Wardlow.
n247

   The facts in Wardlow point out the questionable use that prediction plays in
many high crime area cases. In Wardlow, a narcotics unit driving in a caravan
observed Mr. Wardlow holding a white opaque bag. n248 Wardlow was standing on a
downtown Chicago street corner at about noon. n249 Upon sight of the police,
Wardlow ran, and when he was stopped a gun was recovered from the bag. n250 The
justification for the stop included the flight in a high crime area. n251 Yet,
as was revealed in the lower court proceedings, the observing officers had no
information about that particular block, or Wardlow, and happened simply to be
riding past the block to another location. n252 In addition, the proof that the
area was, in fact, a high narcotics area was belied by the crime statistics
presented to the courts, including the Supreme Court, which did not include any
narcotics arrest data. n253 While the area in question - Chicago's District 11 -
was a low-income area known for violent crimes, how that information factored
into a predictive judgment about a man holding a bag in the afternoon is not
immediately clear. n254

   More relevantly, even if it could be assumed that the area was objectively a
high crime area, it is not clear how that information would help predict that
Mr. Wardlow, as opposed to any one of the 98,000 people who lived in the
district, was committing a crime (or more specifically a narcotics crime). n255
The prediction of a higher level of criminal activity, or even a higher level of
[*302]  narcotics activity, simply was not corroborated by the actual
observation. In this situation, the high crime area label is more of a
retrospective justification for a stop than a predictive factor. n256

   The Court's flawed reasoning in Wardlow might be unremarkable, except that
there have been thousands of post-Wardlow cases that have relied on the high
crime area designation to determine reasonable suspicion. n257 While a handful
of cases have explicitly wrestled with the predictive value of this label, most
have simply applied it without considering whether it offers any predictive
weight. n258

   Numerous judges and scholars have critiqued the use of the high crime area
designation, almost since its creation. n259 Critics point to its discriminatory
effect on low-income areas and communities of color. n260 Its use has raised
questions of infringements on civil liberties, as well as the stigmatizing
effect on economic development and community-police relations. n261 Some
scholars, myself included, have suggested retiring the high crime area term as
an inexact, overly general term of art that is inconsistent with the existing
crime mapping technology and the Supreme Court's emphasis on particularized
suspicion. n262 While courts routinely use the term high crime area in
considering the totality of circumstances to support reasonable suspicion, there
is less emphasis on why that information is relevant to help predict a
particular crime. As stated, the high crime area in Wardlow - Chicago's District
11 - had  [*303]  a population of 98,000. n263 The predictive value for an
individual among that number of people is negligible. Similarly, the lack of
particularized focus on the type of crime weakens the predictive value of the
information. Had the high crime area been localized to a particular block, or a
particular type of crime, the value of the predictive information would be more
relevant. Some federal and state courts have required this nexus between a
particularized area, crime, time, and the observations of the police officer.
n264 In addition, most of the current predictive policing forecasting programs
seem to embrace the importance of a narrowly tailored area, with a focus on
particular crime-type, and a close temporal proximity. n265 As will be discussed
later, the advent of predictive policing may in fact signal the end of a
generalized high crime area analysis, by replacing it with more precise
technology and terminology.

   D. Principles of Prediction and Reasonable Suspicion

 From the above summary of Fourth Amendment cases, the same themes emerge to
analyze reasonable suspicion. First, no matter the type of predictive
information (tip, profile, or high crime area), the information alone is never
enough to control the reasonable suspicion analysis. In every case, this
information is considered relevant to the totality of circumstances, but must be
corroborated by direct police observation. Second, the predictive information
must be particularized to a person, a profile, or a place, in a way that
directly connects the suspected crime to the suspected person, profile, or
place. n266 Third, the predictive information must provide sufficient detail to
identify or separate the targeted person, profile, or place from others not so
targeted. n267 Finally, the predictive value of the information declines over
time, such that predictive information must be acted on quickly or be lost.

    [*304]  Each of these principles informs the discussion of predictive
policing and reasonable suspicion: the subject of Part III.

   III. Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion

 If crime locations can be predicted, and the current Fourth Amendment doctrine
embraces predictive judgments, then what to make of predictive policing?
Certainly an accurate prediction of a particular crime, in a specific location,
should have some effect on police officers and courts. Whether it be a computer
algorithm or criminological theory, the identification of environmental
vulnerabilities that could be exploited by criminals is a reasonable factor to
consider in evaluating suspicious activity in that area. The question analyzed
in this Part is how to apply current Fourth Amendment concepts to this new
technological innovation.

   Two basic questions exist for any court addressing the effect of predictive
policing on the reasonable suspicion analysis. First, assuming an accurate and
reliable system, is this predictive forecast appropriate to consider in the
totality of circumstances? Second, if so, how does a court analyze the issues
under the Fourth Amendment?

   The short answer to the first question is that it is too soon to evaluate.
The near repeat theories and the risk terrain models, among other variations,
are only now being developed and refined. n268 The underlying theories of
environmental vulnerabilities make logical sense, but whether that logic
translates into accurate crime forecasts will take several years to determine.
Further, how courts interpret these predictive forecasts within the current
Fourth Amendment structure may, in fact, shape the technologies. Judicial
demands for standards of precision, probabilities, and procedures will likely
require the predictive technologies to evolve and improve. n269 Lines will have
to be drawn about probabilities and the predictive reliability of the models
tested. Before this issue of legitimacy is resolved, however, a predictive
policing case may reach a trial court, and that court will have to address the
issue using the existing reasonable suspicion doctrine.

   As to the second question, the existing Fourth Amendment analogies are
imperfect, but informative, in determining how courts might address the effect
[*305]  of predictive policing technologies in a reasonable suspicion
determination. As detailed below, a careful evaluation of the available
analogies cautions against adopting any of them as models for examining
predictive policing. At the same time, revealingly, each of the analogies leads
to the same ultimate conclusion. Predictive policing technologies - if accurate
and reliable - can add to the totality of circumstances for reasonable suspicion
and will have a direct effect on Fourth Amendment liberties. While these
predictions cannot, alone, establish reasonable suspicion (or probable cause)
they may change the balance of suspicion in the forecasted areas.

   A. Predictive Policing as a Data-Driven "Tip"

 As examined earlier, one possible Fourth Amendment analogy for predictive
policing is the tip cases. In this model, predictive policing technologies
provide a non-specific tip about a type of crime in a particular area.

   1. Predictive Policing as an Anonymous or Informant Tip

 The parallels in considering predictive policing as an anonymous or informant
tip are obvious and yet imprecise. n270 Unlike a tip, predictive policing
includes no personal knowledge in its forecast of potential criminal activity.
This is an important distinction that removes predictive policing from the
reasoning of Draper, White, and even Gates, in that there is no "inside"
information that can help evaluate the reliability of the tip. n271

   Further, a predictive policing "tip" is not particularized to an individual.
While a particular block might be identified as being the location of a
particular type of crime, the algorithms, as currently used, are no help in
identifying particular persons suspected. Thus, the core logic of the tip cases
falls away. Because predictive policing does not provide personal knowledge
[*306]  about an ongoing crime, or particularized identification of the suspect
involved, it cannot support the weight of reasonable suspicion. n272

   As such, if considered simply like a tip, a predictive policing forecast
should not support reasonable suspicion to stop anyone on the block just because
there might be a heightened level of potential criminal activity in the area.
n273 First, such a tip is too generalized, lacking the detail required in White
to identify a suspect. n274 Second, it does not identify an actual ongoing
crime, as required by J.L. n275 Third, there is no corroboration as required by
almost all the tip cases. n276 For reasonable suspicion, police would need more
than just the generalized tip, including substantial direct corroborative
observation linking the tip to the individual observed.

   2. Predictive Policing as a Tip About an Area

 The more difficult, and more relevant, example for predictive policing focuses
on when a known informant provides a tip about an area or location. For example,
known informant tips about drug houses, drug corners, or general areas of
criminal activity are commonplace in law enforcement. n277 In these cases,
officers responding to those identified areas have been allowed to rely on the
non-specific predictive tip about an area in their reasonable suspicion  [*307]
calculus. n278 Predictive policing then can be considered like a reliable tip of
generalized information about an area. n279

   Two points need to be emphasized about this second type of generalized tip.
First, traditional application of the totality of circumstances test does not
quite fit. n280 The reason why police might trust a known informant's prediction
of criminal activity is not the same as the reason one might trust a computer
program's prediction of criminal activity. While reliability is key to both, it
is a different reliability. On one hand an objective, well-functioning computer
program seems more reliable than your typical police informant. The computer has
no biases, no past bad acts, and no agendas. On the other hand, the information
in the computer is generalized, and that fact makes it less reliable. By
analogy, if the human informant stated that based on past experience with car
thefts, the informant has a general feeling that a car theft would occur at a
location, most courts would not think this "feeling" would be sufficient for
reasonable suspicion. n281 Even if the informant explained that the past
experiences were regular, recorded, and accurate, the inference that one could
generalize from that experience to future crimes is weak. Most courts would want
more than past experiences, requiring something particular and detailed about
this area now. Again, the reliability turns on the particularized insight about
a specific area at a specific time. A generalized sense, standing alone, would
not be enough.

   While insufficient on its own, this type of reliable, known informant tip, if
corroborated, might result in reasonable suspicion. The key remains the
observations that corroborate the tip. Similar to a police informant who
provides reliable, if generalized, suspicion about a drug house or street
corner,  [*308]  the information can color what a reasonable officer observes,
even if it cannot be reasonable suspicion in itself. In addition, because courts
have recognized that a reliable tip may require less corroboration than an
anonymous tip, n282 if considered more like a reliable informant tip about an
area, then police may actually need less corroboration in their observations.

   This conclusion presents a significant change in how courts could apply the
reasonable suspicion standard. It means that a computer algorithm could alter
Fourth Amendment protections in certain forecast locations. Returning to the
parking garage scenario at the beginning of this Article, the two women could
not have been stopped on reasonable suspicion but for the predictive element of
the analysis. Merely looking into car windows is not sufficient activity to
warrant the reasonable belief that criminal activity is afoot. However, with a
predicted computer "tip" of car theft, it might be. Analyzed carefully, this
conclusion means that the potential for crime in an area can alter the
reasonable suspicion analysis.

   For courts, assuming the reliability and accuracy of the prediction, a
data-driven "tip" may be appropriate to factor into the reasonable suspicion
analysis. While corroboration is still required, predictive policing "tips" may
require less corroboration than other tips and may affect the Fourth Amendment
analysis.

   B. Predictive Policing as Profiling in an Area of Forecast Crime

 A second Fourth Amendment analogy to consider is predictive policing as a form
of profiling. In this analogy, predictive policing technologies would forecast a
"profiled" crime in a certain geographic area, such that anyone in the area who
acted in conformity with certain recognizable characteristics could be stopped
based on reasonable suspicion. Whether considered "profiling" or probabilistic
suspicion of activities in an area, the Supreme Court's acceptance of profiling
helps frame the analysis. n283

   Under current law, profiles of suspected criminal activity in particular
locations for specific crimes appear to be constitutional. n284 The focus here
is on the actions or activities of individuals that match actions or activities
generally  [*309]  considered to be indicative of criminal activity. The profile
includes considerations of activity, place, and general characteristics. For
example, in a residential neighborhood with a burglary problem, a burglar
profile could be created so that otherwise innocent actions - like loitering
with bags large enough to carry contraband, tools, ropes, and gloves (in warm
weather) - could be considered suspicious. Someone acting "like a burglar" on a
particular block within a particular time frame would then be considered the
same as someone acting like a drug courier arriving from a known source city for
drugs. The result would be that profiles of generalized criminal activities
would be used to justify stops of individual suspects if they happen to be in a
predicted area of crime. n285

   Profiling suspicious activities is not new, and it mirrors the daily practice
of police officers who informally have an idea of stereotypical criminal
activity. n286 Labeling it a profile, or merely good police work, may not be
significant. What is significant is that the predictive policing forecast, in
combination with this traditional police observation, will change the Fourth
Amendment calculus for reasonable suspicion.

   For example, in one hypothetical case, a police officer sees a man loitering
on a corner with a large duffle bag looking at a house. Under these limited
facts, a stop based on reasonable suspicion would be difficult to justify. There
is nothing objectively criminal about waiting with a bag. Even if the officer
could say that burglars carry bags and burglars steal from houses, there is not
a fit with anything criminal this man has done. Yet, imagine in a second
hypothetical case a police officer is informed that a specific city block has
had a rash of home burglaries. The predictive policing algorithm predicts that
there is a statistical likelihood of another burglary on that block at this
time. Police are told to be on the lookout for burglars (and are given an
appropriate profile). In this second case, a stop based on reasonable suspicion
would likely be upheld.

    [*310]  Notice that the actions of the man have not changed at all.
Objectively, what the suspect has done is no more or less suspicious or
criminal. Yet the prediction, in combination with a profile of generalized
criminal activity, can change the constitutional analysis.

   Of the two changed elements in the analysis - the prediction and the profile
- arguably the profile is more important. From a purely probabilistic model,
even if the computer model said that there was a very significant likelihood of
a burglary in a particular block, if all the police officer saw was a man on the
street (no bag, no looking at the house), then even a very high probability of
crime would not be enough to justify a stop. The profile, because it serves the
corroborating function of linking the prediction to the individual suspect,
matters more.

   This insight again reveals a common theme in the Fourth Amendment analogies.
Corroboration of individual actions is required for reasonable suspicion. n287 A
profile of a burglar is insufficient standing alone. A prediction of a burglary
is insufficient standing alone. But, together a court might find that under a
totality of circumstances this combination could be sufficient for reasonable
suspicion.

   C. Predictive Policing as a Micro-High Crime Area

 The final Fourth Amendment analogy is to consider predictive policing as
creating a micro-high crime area. As discussed earlier, location in a high crime
area is an accepted factor in the reasonable suspicion analysis. n288 Under
Wardlow and its progeny, the ability to predict a specific area of heightened
potential criminal activity appears to directly impact the reasonable suspicion
analysis. n289

   For example, as practiced in Los Angeles and Santa Cruz, the predictive
policing model has targeted three specific types of property crime and then
focused police attention on 500-by-500 foot areas. n290 Assuming that the
[*311]  predictive analysis is based on past crimes and established crime
patterns, those micro-areas would easily fall within the Supreme Court's
understanding of a high crime area. n291 In fact, those areas - small in size,
responsive to immediate crime patterns, and particularized to a type of crime -
are superior to the rather amorphous definition of a "high crime area"
previously accepted by the courts.

   In analyzing reasonable suspicion, there seems to be little reason why an
officer should not consider the predictive information he or she has been given
before patrolling the streets. n292 The information is objective, verifiable,
and particularized to a certain area about a certain crime, and even temporally
relevant. A court analyzing the reasonableness of the officer's suspicion based
on objective standards should take this information into account. To return to
our burglar example, an officer who stops the man standing with the bag outside
the house, in part, because it was a predicted "high burglary" block is making a
reasonable decision based on the available information.

   Notice, however, again the critical fact in the argument is that there is a
corroborative observation that matches the predicted forecast. n293 If the
predictive policing forecast suggested an area with a heightened pattern of
residential burglary, and the police officer went to the area and observed a
hand-to-hand transaction suggestive (but not conclusive) of a drug deal, the
predictive information would be irrelevant. For the predictive technology to add
any value to the totality of circumstances test, there must be a nexus between
prediction, crime, and observed activity. A disconnect in any of those factors
removes the value of the prediction for reasonable suspicion.

   Finally, the predicted area must be limited in size. For example, if the
predicted area covered an entire neighborhood or police district, then the
predictive relevance of a man holding a bag outside a house is weakened. The
chosen metric of a 500-by-500 foot area appears workable and appropriate.
[*312]  Time is also relevant. If, for example, there had not been a burglary in
six months, the predictive value of the prediction is minimal. n294
Particularized place and time remains critical to a useful high crime area
analogy.

   In many ways predictive policing has the potential to add some discipline to
the rather protean "high crime area" term. Predicted areas may no longer be
generic high crime areas, encompassing tens of thousands of residents (as in
Wardlow), but single blocks with information about particular crimes. With this
available technology, courts may no longer need to rely on the generalized high
crime area terminology when more particularized and more relevant information is
available. As will be discussed in the next section, the precision of the
technology may in fact provide more protection for citizens in broadly defined
high crime areas, while at the same time presenting difficulties for law
enforcement that has gotten used to the generic and easily adaptable term.

   D. The Future of Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion

 A police stop based on a predictive policing forecast soon will be in front of
a trial court in a motion to suppress evidence. The court will need to consider
the effect of predictive policing on the Fourth Amendment. The court will also
have to graft existing Fourth Amendment caselaw on this new technology.

   While courts may take different approaches to the question, no matter the
doctrinal analogy chosen the result is the same. Predictive policing will impact
the reasonable suspicion calculus by becoming a factor within the totality of
circumstances test. While never enough alone, with some relevant corroboration,
a predictive tip will serve as the basis of a constitutional stop. Timing will
matter, as the predictive value of the information decays with time. The
particularized nexus will also matter, as the predicted forecast must match the
observed actions. Yet, as demonstrated, the weight of predictive policing in the
totality has the potential to be significant.

   The fact that predictive policing forecasts can affect constitutional rights
may be more of a symptom of the malleability of the reasonable suspicion
doctrine, rather than signifying any great change that prediction offers. n295
As  [*313]  has been discussed in other contexts, the reasonable suspicion
standard offers less protection than perhaps originally designed, and it has
been further eroded with an ever-evolving totality of circumstances test. n296

   Yet, the fact that a law-enforcement-designed technology can alter liberty
protections in certain areas raises the question of whether the Supreme Court's
reasonable suspicion test is being exploited. If police can define away certain
areas using computer algorithms, or define generalized activities as immediately
suspicious in certain areas, it becomes quite easy to escape what had been a
limiting restriction on police officers. n297 This speaks less to the police and
prosecutors that are fighting crime within the existing legal doctrine than to
the doctrine itself, which may need a counterweight to protect liberty interests
in all areas, including areas of predicted criminal activity.

   IV. Future Concerns with Predictive Policing

 Predictive policing is new and evolving. Definitions, validation studies, and
its effectiveness will be evaluated as the technology matures. Its effect on the
Fourth Amendment may evolve as well, as courts and litigants must pick among the
existing reasonable suspicion precedents for suitable analogies for analysis.
Its impact may, in fact, cause courts to rethink the current overly flexible
approach to reasonable suspicion, based on a concern that this technology could
be manipulated or used in a discriminatory manner.

   This Part addresses some of the main concerns that courts, litigants, and
predictive policing supporters should consider in analyzing the constitutional
impact of predictive policing. The focus here, again, is on the Fourth Amendment
concerns, not the effectiveness of the technology from a law enforcement
perspective. The focus is also on predictive technologies centered on the
property-based near-repeat phenomenon, and not the risk terrain model, because
the former has actually been implemented in law enforcement practice.

[*314]

   A. Understanding the Logic of Why Prediction Works and Its Limits

 Central to the use of predictive policing technologies in Fourth Amendment
cases must be an understanding of why prediction works. Predictive algorithms
are not magic boxes that divine future crime, but instead probability models of
future events based on current environmental vulnerabilities. Creators of those
algorithms understand that the limitations of the predictions rest in the
limitations of the data and the conclusions drawn from the data. n298

   Early adopters of predictive policing technologies have focused primarily on
property crimes for a good reason. The accumulated research data supports the
near-repeat effect for some property-based crimes, and not for other crimes.
n299 If burglaries are contagious then it makes sense to focus police efforts
near the original burglary. If a particular parking lot generates a high volume
of car thefts, it makes sense to focus resources at that location. However, the
reason there will be a future crime is not that there was a past crime. Instead,
the reason there will be a future crime is that the environmental vulnerability
that encouraged the first crime is still unaddressed. This insight is critical
to incorporate into the reasonable suspicion analysis. Prediction should be
irrelevant if the underlying vulnerability has been remediated.

   Litigants and courts must understand these limitations. For example, if a
particular block suffers a statistically high number of car thefts over a month
period, a predictive model might forecast that the same block will be the locus
of a subsequent theft. Blind adherence to the predictive forecast might mean
that an individual observed with a screwdriver on that block, in combination
with the forecast, might result in reasonable suspicion for a stop. However, if
prior to the stop police had arrested the gang responsible for all the prior car
thefts, improved the lighting in the area, and posted police on the street,
reliance on the prediction should be irrelevant. n300 The reason why the future
crime is predicted to happen no longer holds. Incorporating predictive policing
into the reasonable suspicion analysis of the court then would not be
appropriate.

   This insight will require litigants challenging a predictive policing stop to
understand the logic of predictive policing technologies. Legal motions may
[*315]  have to be filed to open up the data or to challenge the underlying
computer models. It requires courts to see the prediction as a comment on the
environmental vulnerabilities that generate crime. It also means that the
environment must remain unchanged (or uncorrected) such that the same
vulnerability exists during the time of prediction.

   As can be observed, timing is important. The near repeat theory incorporates
a natural decay such that the prediction is only valid for a short time span
(one or two weeks). n301 This finding reveals the importance of understanding
the environmental factors. Over time, those factors change and, thus, cannot be
the unthinking basis for a valid prediction.

   The crime type is also important. Programs like risk terrain modeling that
model violent crimes present different challenges than the near-repeat
phenomenon for property crimes. Violent crimes such as robbery might correlate
with environmental factors (isolation, darkness, escape routes, reasons for
being on the street), while violent crimes such as shooting correlate with very
different factors (revenge, gangs, turf borders). Computer algorithms that
predict these latter types of crimes must be based on very different theories of
crime and place, and courts that rely on these predictions must understand the
differences.

   The early adopters of predictive policing have taken a careful approach to
considering the effects of their experiments. Admirably, the coordinators of the
study at the LAPD have looked to conduct-validated studies, with blind testing
and very precise areas, as their model. n302 Researchers developing RTM have
also been intentional in recording, analyzing, and limiting their studies in a
scientific manner. n303 The initial tests, while successful, have been tempered
with an understanding that the methods are experimental and the conclusions
restrained. While there is tremendous interest in expanding the technology, the
[*316]  current predictive policing systems are being conducted in a careful,
reflective, and scientific manner. n304

   Whether this caution will remain as other police departments adopt the
technology is unclear. Further, whether new adopters or courts recognize the
limitations and logic of the technologies is uncertain. A real concern is that
the allure of a magic black box that can predict crime will become divorced from
the underlying logic of why the predictions work in the first place.

   In fact, as can be seen in a review of Part III of this Article, there is
little room in the Fourth Amendment legal analysis to argue the underlying
principles of why prediction works. By the time courts are addressing the issue,
a police officer will have acted on predictive information and arrested an
individual. Blind reliance on the forecast, divorced from the reason for the
forecast, may lead to inappropriate reliance on the technology. In addition to
finding the proper Fourth Amendment analogy, or articulating the reasonable
suspicion factors, courts will have to focus on why certain environmental
factors might contribute to future crime or why the absence of those
environmental vulnerabilities could undermine the logic of the algorithm.
Further, courts will need to remember that predictive policing predicts the
potentiality of a crime and not the crime itself, and, thus, the true test will
be the observation of actual, corroborative criminal activity. n305 Keeping
these issues in the forefront of any reasonable suspicion determination is an
important responsibility for litigants and courts.

   B. Ensuring Reliability, Accuracy, and Transparency

 Underlying the question of legitimacy rests the foundational question of
whether predictive policing technologies are reliable and accurate. Any
data-driven policing system is only as good as the data involved. n306 If the
data collection, recording, analysis, or retention is flawed, then the entire
system is  [*317]  called into question. n307 Prior experience with data-driven
crime mapping systems presents several cautionary lessons for the future of
predictive policing. n308

   1. Reliability and Accuracy

 The first concern rests on the data itself. Predictive policing is based in
large measure on extrapolations from past crime data. However, as has been
well-studied, not all crime is reported, not all crime is recorded, and thus,
not all crime is included in crime databases to be used for predictions. n309
While most murders are reported, not all automobile thefts, petty thefts, or
domestic violence assaults are reported. n310 Further, in areas of high crime
among groups of violent criminals, not all retaliatory acts are reported. Thus,
the precision assumed in a statistical probability may not reflect the accurate
crime numbers. Current predictive policing has focused on burglary and car
theft, two crimes that tend to be reported more regularly (perhaps due to the
fixed nature of the property, or the insurance incentives to report). Predictive
numbers for those types of crimes might be more accurate. However, as
predictions move toward more violent crimes or gang crime, the underlying
reporting percentages need to be reexamined.

   Reporting of crimes must also result in recording of crimes. A police report
does not get entered into the system unless the police officer records it
accurately in terms of date, location, crime type, and time. n311 This means
police paperwork must be accurate, and processes must be in place to make sure
that all reported crimes are entered into the system. This emphasis on accuracy
is not a speculative concern. For example, one of the early adopters  [*318]  of
predictive policing was the Memphis Police Department, which saw immediate
success with its Blue C.R.U.S.H. (Crime Reduction Using Statistical History)
program. n312 Like many predictive policing tactics, the Blue C.R.U.S.H. system
was heralded as a revolutionary breakthrough that reduced the crime rate in the
City of Memphis. n313 However, in 2011, an internal governmental audit
discovered the existence of 79,000 police memos in which potential crimes were
recorded, but not counted in the crime statistics. This trove of documents
called into question the scope of the crime reduction, as many potential crimes
were simply not inputted into the computer system. n314 While the city audit is
ongoing, it may mean an upward revision in the crime statistics and questions
for a much-heralded crime prevention program. n315

   The imprecision of crime reporting and recording does not simply affect the
accuracy of the data, but the underlying focus of resources for law enforcement.
n316 If financial fraud or high-end drug dealing is underreported compared to
car thefts, then a system based on predictive policing and data will focus on
the latter at the expense of the former. One might even be able to predict that
certain areas would be the site of these crimes (such as Wall Street or certain
university campuses), but if not reported, the predictive analysis will never
incorporate this data.

   In addition to accurate reporting, there also must be timely analysis. One of
the lessons of the crime and place studies is that the near-repeat effect decays
quite rapidly. n317 Crime reports must be inputted into the systems in a timely
enough fashion to be useful to officers on the street. This means a move to more
real-time reporting, such that the predictive numbers will change at least
weekly, if not daily, or hourly.

    [*319]  Finally, the algorithms chosen to forecast crimes must be validated,
tested, and submitted for outside study. In general, academic scholars have
developed these algorithms from experiments independent of the world of law
enforcement. n318 As academics are versed in the scientific method, scholars
expect testing and peer validation. This tradition, however, may run into
tension with traditional law enforcement practices of maintaining control and
secrecy over tactical operations. Further, some of the predictive policing
programs are proprietary and opening them for study would decrease the
competitive advantage of those institutions or companies that own the programs.
n319 Adopters of predictive policing technologies will have to balance the
utility of tactical secrecy with the reality that courts and litigants will be
seeking to evaluate the reliability of the programs. Only in this way will the
legitimacy of the technology be accepted for use in courts.

   2. Transparency

 Related to the internal data collection and analysis is the concern of how that
information gets translated to courts and litigants in a court proceeding.
Predictive policing programs will need to be explained to courts in a way that
accurately addresses concerns with data collection, analysis, and the creation
of the probabilities. After all, it will be a judge that agrees or disagrees
with the reliability of the information before it can be included in the
totality of circumstances calculus.

   One can easily imagine the situation described earlier from Santa Cruz, in
which a police officer explains to the court that at roll call he was informed
that a particular block had a 10.6% probability of a car theft for a particular
time, and that is why he stopped a suspect near a car. n320 The questions may
include, "Where did that 10.6% probability number come from?" "How accurate is
it?" "How timely?" "How reliable?" Adopters of the new technologies will need to
have answers that will satisfy the courts in a contested hearing. Metrics for
evaluation will need to be created, and then it will be up to courts to address
the line drawing on a case-by-case basis.

    [*320]  This type of questioning could probably be addressed outside the
courtroom if mechanisms of accountability and transparency were built into the
predictive policing systems. Independent oversight boards, audits, and other
methods to test and retest the data collection and analysis may be needed. n321
Regulations, standards, and best practices will have to be developed and
disseminated. Litigants will need to know about internal processes and be able
to compare them to other systems in other jurisdictions. This will mean allowing
access into the systems, as well as limiting some of the proprietary or secrecy
arguments mentioned above. All of these improvements in transparency will be
needed for public oversight of these new public safety initiatives.

   These issues have been recognized by some of the early adopters of predictive
policing. The LAPD pilot program has, for example, developed a blind control
test to see the effect of its program, and this pilot project is being overseen
by academics trained in the scientific method. n322 In addition, the LAPD model
has been designed to avoid the "self-fulfilling prophecy" concern that
predictions will lead to arrests, which will lead to additional predictions in
the same area. n323 To remedy this problem, the LAPD model looks at a three-year
period of crimes, and does not over-value recent arrests into the model. n324
This pilot program was designed with accountability and transparency in mind,
and should likely be a model not just for effectiveness, but also for a process
of openness in developing these programs. As the programs expand across the
country, adopting these control mechanisms may be equally as important as
adopting the technology.

[*321]

   C. Hard Cases

 Predictive policing may well become an effective tool for law enforcement. Yet,
the technology will also create tension for police in defending Fourth Amendment
challenges by defendants. Most notably, by defining particular areas of high
crime down to the block, police are also implicitly demarcating other areas as
not predicted areas of heightened criminal activity. n325 This move changes how
police and prosecutors will be able to rely on the generic high crime area
designation. As there have been thousands of reported cases involving a high
crime area, the number of potential cases implicated by this change is
significant. n326

   For example, assume police are dispatched to a predicted block of heightened
car theft. Following the map in front of them, the police set up surveillance
for the forecast crime. Nothing happens, and after a while, the police drive
off. Two blocks away, the police see a young man with a screwdriver standing
near a parked car. At that moment, the police are no longer in the predicted
area. While subjectively the police are no doubt influenced by the concern of
car thefts in the general area, and objectively such a concern might be
reasonable, the forecast does not cover that block. It is not a micro-area of
heightened crime. The man does not fit the "profile plus activity" model. The
"tip" is for the wrong area. So, assuming the officers go ahead and stop and
search the young man, the predictive profiling model works against the officers
for Fourth Amendment purposes. The officers cannot rely on the forecast. While
the officers' common sense response is probably, "Come on, we were just two
blocks away," the move from a predicted area of particular crime to a generic
and undefined high crime area might actually weaken the justification to stop.

   A similar problem may arise when the predictive model suggests that one type
of crime will occur, and an observing officer sees suspicious activity of
another type of crime. As discussed, the logic of the prediction is based on
certain types of crimes. n327 Further, the logic of the relevance of the stop is
based on the nexus between prediction and observation. Yet, one can easily
imagine that the stakeout for a residential burglary will result in the  [*322]
observation of a suspicious activity unrelated to burglary. Whereas in the past,
an officer could finesse the difference by alluding to the high crime nature of
the neighborhood, now the precision of predictive policing might undercut that
argument.

   A final example might involve the problems with statistical probabilities.
One of the consequences of developing a sophisticated crime prediction model is
that the predictive percentages will be available for all to see. A police
officer who used to be able to state in a suppression hearing, "I was patrolling
a high theft area, one of the top areas for car thefts in the city," now might
be faced with justifying whether a 10.6% likely prediction as directed by an
algorithm is sufficient to change the reasonable suspicion calculus. Or, as
described earlier, an officer may be faced with arguing that a 2.06% increase is
statistically significant. n328 In the traditional situation, most trial judges
would take on good faith the officer's generalized professional judgment. With
the statistics, however, now the court can evaluate the probabilities on its
own, and it may reach a contrary conclusion.

   In each of these cases, the court may well limit the often-malleable
reasonable suspicion doctrine. Hard data has a way of hardening previously fuzzy
judgment calls. To be clear, in the above examples courts may still choose to
keep both the high crime area designation and the predictive forecast as
separate and independent bases for reasonable suspicion. But, a new reliance on
precise, real-time crime statistics is going to undercut the utility of the old
overbroad designation. While this may be a positive development, it is a
consideration that adopting jurisdictions may want to consider.

   D. Discriminatory Use or Discriminatory Effect

 A concern with all law enforcement technology is that it could be used in a
discriminatory fashion. On its face, objective data-driven police tactics should
reduce, not increase, the discriminatory effect of certain police tactics.
However, as can be seen in a few real-world examples, data-driven law
enforcement can have a disproportionate effect on certain communities that
perceive it as discriminatory.

    [*323]  The New York City Police Department has led the nation in its
implementation of a data-driven law enforcement model. n329 The adoption of the
COMPSTAT program led to a dramatic drop in crime in New York City. n330 At the
same time, numerous complaints arose both about the pressures to collect data
(make arrests), as well as its impact on certain communities. n331 Currently,
New York City is being sued by citizens over the use of "stop and frisk"
policies that are largely focused on certain communities. n332 The numbers are
striking as over half a million citizens were stopped and frisked every year for
the last few years. n333 Most of those citizens were people of color. n334

   Whether data-driven or not, the focus on particular communities?usually poor
and usually communities of color?has created concerns about constitutional
equities. While all citizens would like reduced crime, for citizens in higher
crime areas the costs of that reduction in terms of police-citizen tension,
liberty infringements, and occasional physical violence have not always been
squarely balanced. n335 In addition, constitutional freedoms to assemble,
travel, and participate are at stake. In theory, predictive policing should
improve these tensions because the focus is on single blocks, not neighborhoods,
and particular crimes, not general neighborhood reputation. In addition, if the
strategy is merely to direct police to higher areas of crime in  [*324]  order
to disrupt the environmental vulnerability (and not arrest anyone), then this
innovation may decrease rather than increase police-citizen tension.

   On the other hand, one could imagine potential discrimination if certain
groups were targeted using predictive technologies. While gangs are an obvious
and oft-stated target of future use, one could see how predictive forecasts of
gang criminal activities, coupled with corroboration of gang presence in an
area, could result in an automatic finding of reasonable suspicion to stop gang
members on the street. While perhaps not the most sympathetic figures for
protecting Fourth Amendment freedoms, such police-made manufacturing of
reasonable suspicion also runs counter to existing constitutional law. n336

   E. Courtroom Effect

 As a final matter, courts should consider the practical effect of allowing
predictive policing programs to influence the reasonable suspicion analysis in
court. Independent of concerns with reliability, accuracy, or potential
manipulation, there is a separate issue with allowing law enforcement to control
the factors that make up reasonable suspicion. As seen in the creation of
profiles, or the claim of suspicion based on presence in a high crime area, a
malleable reasonable suspicion test offers little protection from a police stop.

   The concern with adding a prediction model to an already weakened reasonable
suspicion standard is that one factor can control the totality of circumstances
in finding reasonable suspicion. The prediction, because it comes from an
objective source, will color the subjective suspicion of the officer and the
ultimate objective decision of the court. In practical application, it will be
difficult for a court to discount the weight of some objective support for the
officer's suspicion. To allow predictive policing such influence without
mechanisms of accountability for the data and analysis, and without full
transparency, may result in a troubling lack of protection for individuals who
end up in the forecasted areas. n337

   This concern should inspire courts to take a more active role in ensuring
that the predictive policing models work and can be evaluated. This will result
[*325]  in new battles over discovery, expert reports, and line drawing about
the predictive validity of the claims. This development is to be expected and
welcomed as a natural course of new technologies being introduced into
courtrooms.

   Conclusion

 In the future, predictive policing will affect the Fourth Amendment reasonable
suspicion analysis. How it affects it and whether these changes weaken or
strengthen Fourth Amendment protections remains unclear. This Article has
attempted to provide a framework for analysis for developers of the technology
as well as courts struggling to interpret the consequences of the technology.
Only by understanding the criminological traditions of crime and place and
predictive themes in the Fourth Amendment doctrine can courts adequately assess
the technology and its impact.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsSearch & SeizureProbable
CauseCriminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesFraudComputer FraudGeneral
OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureSearch & SeizureSearch WarrantsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  A National Interoperable Broadband Network for Public Safety: Recent
Developments: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Commc'ns, Tech., & the Internet of
the H. Energy & Commerce Comm., 111th Cong. 20 (2009) (statement of William J.
Bratton, Chief, Los Angeles Police Department).





n2.  Guy Adams, The Sci-Fi Solution to Real Crime, Independent (London), Jan.
11, 2012, (World), at 32; Joel Rubin, Stopping Crime Before It Starts, L.A.
Times, Aug. 21, 2010, at A1; Christopher Beam, Time Cops: Can Police Really
Predict Crime Before It Happens?, Slate (Jan. 24, 2011, 6:06 PM), http://www.
slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/crime/2011/0 1/time_cops.single.html;
Weekend Edition Saturday (National Public Radio broadcast Nov. 26, 2011),
available at
http://www.npr.org/2011/11/26/142758000/at-lapd-predicting-crimes-before-they-ha
ppen (discussing predictive policing in Los Angeles); see also Andrew Guthrie
Ferguson, "Predictive Policing" and the Fourth Amendment, Am. Crim. L. Rev. Blog
(Nov. 28, 2011, 11:25 PM),
http://www.americancriminallawreview.com/Drupal/blogs/blog-entry/"
predictive-policing"-and- fourth-amendment-11-28-2011.





n3.  Weekend Edition Saturday, supra note 2.





n4.  See id.





n5.  See id. The software used by the LAPD and the Santa Cruz Police Department
was developed by Professors George Mohler, Jeffrey Brantingham, Martin Short,
and George Tita. Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y.
Times, Aug. 16, 2011, at A11.





n6.  Rubin, supra note 2. The idea behind predictive policing preemptive
enforcement using crime data was named one of Time's 2011 Fifty Best Inventions
of the Year. Lev Grossman et al., The 50 Best Inventions of the Year, Time, Nov.
28, 2011, at 55, 82 (discussing preemptive policing).





n7.  Goode, supra note 5.





n8.  Id.





n9.  Id.





n10.  See Tessa Stuart, The Policemen's Secret Crystal Ball, Santa Cruz Wkly.,
Feb. 15, 2012, at 9 (arguing that "the two women from The New York Times article
were first stopped because they were in violation of a municipal code called the
parking lot trespass law").





n11.  See, e.g., United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 274 (2002) (requiring
more than a mere hunch for a police stop); see also Albert W. Alschuler, The
Upside and Downside of Police Hunches and Expertise, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 115,
122-23 (2007).





n12.  See infra Part IV.





n13.  In both Los Angeles and Santa Cruz, the formal rollout of the predictive
policing experiment is not even a year old. As such, the results, while
positive, are preliminary. See Goode, supra note 5; Josh Koehn, Algorithmic
Crimefighting, SanJose.com (Feb. 22, 2012),
http://www.sanjose.com/news/2012/02/22/sheriffs_
office_fights_property_crimes_with _predictive_policing ("During the first half
of 2011, Zach Friend, a spokesman for the Santa Cruz Police Department, says
that after using its predictive policing algorithm, the department reported a
drop in property crimes ranging somewhere between 4 and 11 percent.").





n14.  Predictive policing has been featured in the New York Times, made the
front cover of Popular Science, and drawn national and international interest.
Goode, supra note 5; Popular Sci., Nov. 2011; see also Beam, supra note 2 ("In
November 2009, the National Institute of Justice held a symposium on "predictive
policing,' to figure out the best ways to use statistical data to predict
micro-trends in crime."). In addition, the federal government, through the
Justice Department, has sponsored millions of dollars of research grants on the
subject. Id.





n15.  See infra Part III.





n16.  United States v. Grubbs, 547 U.S. 90, 95 (2006).





n17.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30 (1968) (allowing police to stop a
suspect based upon a conclusion "that criminal activity may be afoot").





n18.  Terry, 392 U.S. 1.





n19.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 268 (2000); Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325,
330 (1990).





n20.  United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1 (1989).





n21.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123-25 (2000).





n22.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 238 (1983).





n23.  See infra Part IV.





n24.  See infra Part II.





n25.  See Stephen Baxter, Modest Gains in First Six Months of Santa Cruz's
Predictive Police Program, Santa Cruz Sentinel (Feb. 26, 2012, 4:59:09 PM),
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com/ci_20050377 ("From the program's start in Santa
Cruz in July 2011 to Jan. 1, 2012, car burglaries and residential burglaries
declined by 4 percent compared with the same period a year earlier, according to
Santa Cruz crime analyst Zach Friend. Vehicle thefts remained about the same.
"The goal of the program has not been to arrest people, it's to deter and
prevent crime from occurring,' Friend said. Having said that, there were roughly
13 suspects arrested during predictive police patrols.").





n26.  See generally Spencer Chainey & Jerry Ratcliffe, GIS and Crime Mapping 8
(2005); Keith Harries, Nat'l Inst. of Justice, Mapping Crime: Principle and
Practice 92-94 (1999); Derek J. Paulsen & Matthew B. Robinson, Crime Mapping and
Spatial Aspects of Crime 154 (2d ed. 2009); Luc Anselin et al., Spatial Analyses
of Crime, in 4 Criminal Justice 2000, at 213, 215 (2000).





n27.  United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 418 (1981) (observing that the
question of reasonable suspicion deals "with probabilities").





n28.  See infra Parts II, III.





n29.  Craig D. Uchida, Nat'l Inst. of Justice, No. NCJ 230404, A National
Discussion on Predictive Policing: Defining Our Terms and Mapping Successful
Implementation Strategies 1 (2009) (emphasis omitted).





n30.  As will be discussed infra, the parallel between police hunches and
computer forecasts is central to determining an appropriate Fourth Amendment
analogy.





n31.  Beth Pearsall, Predictive Policing: The Future of Law Enforcement?, Nat'l
Inst. Just. J., June 2010, at 16, 16 ("Predictive policing, in essence, is
taking data from disparate sources, analyzing them and then using results to
anticipate, prevent and respond more effectively to future crime.").





n32.  In its 2009 call for proposals on "predictive policing models," the
Department of Justice's National Institute of Justice included several specific
targets within the broad category, including: (1) "statistical analysis to
forecast Compstat-like performance"; (2) "advanced statistical models to
determine the risk of offending or victimization of particular individuals or
groups to inform suppression, problem-oriented, or community policing methods of
intervention"; (3) "advanced analytical tools, including social network analysis
tools and intelligent decision support systems for use in investigation to
determine nonobvious relationships among suspects, victims, and others or to
visualize criminal incidents and relationships"; (4) "geospatial tools to
analyze trends including demographics, land use, income, and other sources to
predict future needs for allocation of police resources"; and (5) "crime
prediction models that use a variety of input variables and that can be used to
inform city or neighborhood planning activities to promote long-term public
safety outcomes and benefits." Nat'l Inst. of Justice, Dep't of Justice, SL No.
000877, Solicitation: Predictive Policing Demonstration and Evaluation Program 6
(2009).





n33.  Koehn, supra note 13 (""The most common time [vehicle and residential]
crimes were occurring were Tuesdays and Thursdays between 5pm and 8pm,' says
Damon, who works out of a sheriff's office substation in Cupertino. "We put
together hot spots and victim profiles to give officers an idea what to look
for. In May of 2010, we started seeing a significant decrease. It was pretty
immediate once we got our patrol units in the right place at the right time.' As
a result, from 2010 to 2011, property crimes in the West Valley patrol area for
the sheriff's office - Cupertino, Saratoga, Los Altos and unincorporated zones
that include parts of Los Gatos - dropped 23 percent." (alteration in
original)).





n34.  See infra Part I.A.1.





n35.  Leslie W. Kennedy et al., Risk Clusters, Hotspots, and Spatial
Intelligence: Risk Terrain Modeling as an Algorithm for Police Resource
Allocation Strategies, 27 J. Quantitative Criminology 339, 345-46 (2011) ("The
Newark Police Department maintains an extensive Geographic Information System
(GIS) encompassing numerous data layers. The digitized fields include Part I
crime incidents, officer activity (such as arrests and summonses), persons of
interests (e.g. "Known Burglars' and "Confidential Informants'), locations of
interest (e.g. "Gang Territory'), and business/retail establishments and
infrastructure (e.g. Public Housing and Liquor Stores)."); see also Brigitte
Gassaway et al., Engaging the Community: Operation Heat Wave, Geography & Pub.
Safety, Oct. 2011, at 8, 9.





n36.  Tom Casady, Police Legitimacy and Predictive Policing, Geography & Pub.
Safety, Mar. 2011, at 1, 1.





n37.  See Jie Xu et al., Rutgers Ctr. on Pub. Sec., Crime Generators for
Shootings in Urban Areas: A Test Using Conditional Locational Interdependence as
an Extension of Risk Terrain Modeling 1 (2010) (examining the "spatial
distribution effects of certain urban features (specifically, bus stops, middle
and high schools, and public housing) acting as "generators' of gun shootings"
in two jurisdictions: Newark and Irvington, New Jersey).





n38.  Jeffrey S. Paul & Thomas M. Joiner, Integration of Centralized
Intelligence with Geographic Information Systems: A Countywide Initiative,
Geography & Pub. Safety, Oct. 2011, at 5, 7 ("Geographic profiling gives the
ICTF [Intelligence Crime Task Force] the ability to use heuristic algorithms to
delineate specific regions that have higher probabilities of containing an
offender's residence, place of employment, or leisure space. From these
probabilities, we prioritize these areas and develop a list of likely suspects
based on the GIS data that falls within our search radius.").





n39.  Rubin, supra note 2 ("For patrol officers on the streets, mapping software
on in-car computers and hand-held devices would show continuous updates on the
probability of various crimes occurring in the vicinity, along with the
addresses and background information about paroled ex-convicts living in the
area.").





n40.  Weekend Edition Saturday, supra note 2; see also Adams, supra note 2;
Rubin, supra note 2; Beam, supra note 2.





n41.  See generally Adams, supra note 2; Rubin, supra note 2; Beam, supra note
2; Weekend Edition Saturday, supra note 2. The genesis of the applied predictive
policing research arose from the work of Jeffrey Brantingham (UCLA), George
Mohler (UC Santa Cruz), and George Tita (UC Irvine) who collaborated on the
technological architecture now being applied in both Santa Cruz and Los Angeles,
California. See E-mail from Jeffrey Brantingham, Professor, Dep't of
Anthropology, Univ. of Cal. L.A., to author (Mar. 26, 2012) [hereinafter
Brantingham E-mail] (on file with author).





n42.  Rubin, supra note 2, at A17; see also E-mail from Sean Malinowski,
Captain, L.A. Police Dep't, to author (Feb. 9, 2012) [hereinafter Malinowski
E-mail] (on file with author).





n43.  Adams, supra note 2; Malinowski E-mail, supra note 42.





n44.  Adams, supra note 2. The LAPD experiment involves a double-blind
randomized control model. See Brantingham E-mail, supra note 41.





n45.  Stuart, supra note 10.





n46.  Id.





n47.  Baxter, supra note 25 ("In July, the Santa Cruz Police Department became
the first law enforcement agency in the nation to implement a predictive
policing program. With about eight years of data on car and home burglaries, an
algorithm predicts locations and days of future crimes each day. Police are
given a list of places to go to try to prevent crime when they were not
responding to calls for service.").





n48.  Id.; see also G. O. Mohler et al., Self-Exciting Point Process Modeling of
Crime, 106 J. Am. Stat. Ass'n 100, 100-01 (2011); Stuart, supra note 10.





n49.  Stuart, supra note 10, at 13-14.





n50.  Baxter, supra note 25; see Kalee Thompson, The Santa Cruz Experiment,
Popular Sci., Nov. 2011, at 38, 50 ("By the end of July, [early results of the
LAPD test showed] property crime was down 27 percent from the year before, an
impressive drop, especially given the 25 percent rise in the first six months of
the year. What's more, seven criminals had been discovered inside the hot
spots."); Koehn, supra note 13.





n51.  Jerome Burdi, Police Looking to Predict Crimes in Palm Beach County, Palm
Beach Sun Sentinel (Oct. 30, 2011),
http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2011-10-30/news/fl-predictive-policing-
20111030_1_violent-crime-police-stake-police-agencies ("Predictive policing is
among the initiatives under study by the Palm Beach County Law Enforcement
Exchange Program, a countywide effort to share data among police agencies. The
program could be underway next year.").





n52.  Andrew Ashby, Operation Blue C.R.U.S.H. Advances at MPD, Memphis Daily
News (Apr. 7, 2006),
http://www.memphisdailynews.com/editorial/Article.aspx?id=30029 ("Operation Blue
C.R.U.S.H. (Crime Reduction Using Statistical History) involves using mapping
and statistical information to target crime hot spots and chronic perpetrators.
"It's putting the right people in the right places on the right day at the right
time,' said Dr. Richard Janikowski, an associate professor in the Department of
Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Memphis."); Burdi, supra
note 51 ("John F. Williams, crime-analysis manager for Memphis police, said the
city was plagued by violent crime until its predictive-policing technology,
nicknamed Blue Crush, came online. Since then, crime is down 30 percent, he
said.").





n53.  News Briefs: Chicago Police Department Adopts Predictive Crime-Fighting
Model, Geography & Pub. Safety, Mar. 2011, at 14, 14 ("In April 2010, the
Chicago Police Department began piloting a crime prevention strategy called
predictive analytics."); Burdi, supra note 51 (noting that Memphis, Chicago,
Edmonton, British Columbia, and Northern Ireland now use predictive policing).





n54.  Matt McKinney, The Next Crime, Star Trib. (Minneapolis), Jan. 23, 2011, at
1A (describing the predictive policing units in Minneapolis).





n55.  Gassaway et al., supra note 35, at 8 ("TAAG [Targeted Area Action Grids]
areas are geographic hot spots within the city where conditions are favorable
for crime to occur. Twenty-seven areas have been identified and represent
approximately 7% of the city, or about 26 square miles, and have about 30% of
the total Part I crimes. The model uses a multivariate method that improves the
forecasting effectiveness of geographic information systems (GIS) compared to
conventional or retrospective mapping methods because it looks at more than just
crime. The variables or indicators themselves do not create crime; they simply
point to locations where, if the conditions are right, the likelihood of
victimization and criminal behavior increases. The TAAG areas produced will
assist in strategic decision making and tactical action by showing where
conditions are favorable for crime to occur in the future.").





n56.  Vince Beiser, Forecasting Felonies: Can Computers Predict Crimes of the
Future?, Pac. Standard, July/Aug. 2011, at 20.





n57.  David Alan Sklansky, The Persistent Pull of Police Professionalism 8-9
(2011), available at http://www.hks.harvard.edu/var/ezp_site/storage/fckedito
r/file/pdfs/centers-programs/programs/criminal-justice/ExecSessionPolicing/NPIP-
ThePersistentPullofPoliceProfessionalism-03-11.pdf ("One commonly cited example
of predictive policing is the "data mining' that police in Richmond, Va.,
employed to address the problem of gunfire on New Year's Eve. Categorizing each
complaint of gunfire by time and location, the police discovered that most of
the shots occurred in four neighborhoods during a narrow time window around
midnight on December 31. By concentrating its patrol officers in those areas and
that time window, the department was able to reduce gunfire complaints, boost
seizures of weapons and cut overtime expenses. Backers of intelligence-led
policing and predictive policing can sometimes be dismissive of the old "dots on
a map' style of analysis, but this amounted to dots on a map and on a timeline.
As the consultant who helped the Richmond Police Department devise its new
strategy points out, "this wasn't complicated at all; this was just simple
descriptive statistics.'" (alteration in original) (footnotes omitted));
Pearsall, supra note 31, at 17 (discussing innovations in Richmond, Virginia).





n58.  A predictive policing summit was held in November 2009. Pearsall, supra
note 31, at 16.





n59.  Charlie Beck & Colleen McCue, Predictive Policing: What Can We Learn from
Wal-Mart and Amazon About Fighting Crime in a Recession?, Police Chief, Nov.
2009, at 18, 18 ("Predictive policing allows command staff and police managers
to leverage advanced analytics in support of meaningful, information-based
tactics, strategy, and policy decisions in the applied public safety
environment. As the law enforcement community increasingly is asked to do more
with less, predictive policing represents an opportunity to prevent crime and
respond more effectively, while optimizing increasingly scarce or limited
resources, including personnel."); id. at 20 ("Risk-based deployment supports
the optimization of public safety resources and assets, including personnel."
(footnote omitted)).





n60.  Sklansky, supra note 57, at 9 ("Part of the reason technology tends to be
over-hyped is that there is money to be made from selling it. Another part of
the reason is simply that gear and gadgets are sexy: shiny video screens,
interactive maps, and "mathematical prophesy' have allures that are not shared
by, say, a poorly attended community meeting in a church basement." (footnote
omitted)).





n61.  Paul & Joiner, supra note 38, at 5, 7 ("This proactive approach has led to
successful results in Morris County. Since 2007, the total crime index in the
county has decreased by 11%, violent crime by 21%, and property crime by 7%.").





n62.  Kate J. Bowers & Shane D. Johnson, Who Commits Near Repeats? A Test of the
Boost Explanation, W. Criminology Rev., Nov. 2004, at 12, 21 ("Prospective
mapping is significantly more accurate than extant methods, correctly
identifying the future locations of between 64%-80% of burglary events for the
period considered."); see Beck & McCue, supra note 59, at 19 ("With new
technology, new business processes, and new algorithms, predictive policing is
based on directed, information-based patrol; rapid response supported by
fact-based prepositioning of assets; and proactive, intelligence-based tactics,
strategy, and policy. The predictive-policing era promises measureable results,
including crime reduction; more efficient police agencies; and modern,
innovative policing.").





n63.  See Pearsall, supra note 31, at 17 ("George Gascon, chief of police for
the San Francisco Police Department, noted that predictive policing is the
perfect tool to help departments become more efficient as budgets continue to be
reduced. "With predictive policing, we have the tools to put cops at the right
place at the right time or bring other services to impact crime, and we can do
so with less,' he said.").





n64.  See Sklansky, supra note 57, at 3 ("The newest approaches to policing
pushed by the federal government are "intelligence-led policing' and "predictive
policing.' ... Like intelligence-led policing, predictive policing has been
proclaimed "the next era in policing' ... ." (footnotes omitted)).





n65.  See Nina Cope, "Intelligence Led Policing or Policing Led Intelligence?':
Integrating Volume Crime Analysis into Policing, 44 Brit. J. Criminology 188,
191 (2004) ("Analysis converts raw information into actionable intelligence by
seeking patterns in crime data, linking criminal events or constructing detailed
suspect profiles."); O. Ribaux et al., Forensic Intelligence and Crime Analysis,
2 L. Probability & Risk 47, 48 (2003) ("The evolution of policing strategies and
new technologies has dramatically increased the role of intelligence in law
enforcement agencies."); id. at 54 ("A combination of exploratory, statistical
and visualization methods helps reveal patterns in large quantities of
information. The information itself is an integration of a broad variety of data
representing for example crime incidents, physical environments, socio-economic
and demographic features of a population, or physical traces.").





n66.  See Sklansky, supra note 57, at 3 ("Intelligence-led policing - trumpeted
by its supporters as a "new paradigm in policing,' "rapidly growing' into a
"worldwide movement' - emphasizes the use of intelligence collection and data
analysis to guide the selection and implementation of police policies."
(footnote omitted)); Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 358 ("Problem Oriented
Policing relies on intricate "scanning' and "analysis' of crime problems in the
development of strategies and stresses rigorous "assessment' of program
impact.").





n67.  Debra Livingston, Police Discretion and the Quality of Life in Public
Places: Courts, Communities, and the New Policing, 97 Colum. L. Rev. 551, 562-63
(1997).





n68.  Bernard E. Harcourt & Jens Ludwig, Broken Windows: New Evidence from New
York City and a Five-City Social Experiment, 73 U. Chi. L. Rev. 271, 276 (2006);
James Q. Wilson & George L. Kelling, Broken Windows, Atlantic, Mar. 1982, at 29.





n69.  See Sklansky, supra note 57, at 3 ("Like intelligence-led policing,
predictive policing puts intelligence collection and data analysis at the center
of police decision-making, emphasizing "directed, information-based patrol;
rapid response supported by fact-based pre-positioning of assets; and proactive,
intelligence-based tactics, strategy, and policy.'").





n70.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson & Damien Bernache, The "High-Crime Area" Question:
Requiring Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth Amendment Reasonable
Suspicion Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1627 & n.251 (2008) (noting that
many cities, including Los Angeles and Chicago, utilize crime mapping
technologies); James J. Willis et al., Making Sense of COMPSTAT: A Theory-Based
Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police Departments, 41 Law & Soc'y
Rev. 147, 148, 172 (2007) (noting that New York utilizes crime mapping
technologies).





n71.  See generally Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Crime Mapping and the Fourth
Amendment: Redrawing "High-Crime Areas", 63 Hastings L.J. 179, 182-84 (2011)
("Simply stated, these GIS crime-mapping technologies can produce almost perfect
information about the frequency and geographic location of crimes in any given
area. The crime data can be broken down and analyzed by location, crime, and
time period... . Typically, the data collection, storage, and analysis are done
by police administrators to determine staffing needs or allocate resources."
(footnotes omitted)).





n72.  Rosamunde van Brakel & Paul De Hert, Policing, Surveillance and Law in a
Pre-Crime Society: Understanding the Consequences of Technology Based
Strategies, 20 J. Police Stud. (Belg.), no. 3, 2011 at 163, 173 (recognizing
that new technologies allow for preemptive profiling of individuals as the
combination of predictive strategies and increased surveillance allow for more
targeted profiles).





n73.  See Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 358 ("Hotspots policing relies on
the identification, primarily through GIS analysis, of distinct places
experiencing crime concentrations.").





n74.  Id. at 340 ("As better data and more sophisticated mapping techniques have
come available, opportunities have emerged to move beyond approaches that rely
on density mapping to empirical and evidence-based strategies that forecast
where crime will emerge in the future.").





n75.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12 ("Studies demonstrate that rather
than being random, crime tends to cluster in space, and that directing police or
crime prevention resources to such "hotspots' can have a crime reductive
effect." (citations omitted)); Spencer Chainey et al., The Utility of Hotspot
Mapping for Predicting Spatial Patterns of Crime, 21 Security J. 4, 5 (2008)
("Crime also does not occur randomly. It tends to concentrate at particular
places for reasons that can be explained in relation to victim and offender
interaction and the opportunities that exist to commit crime.").





n76.  See Chainey et al., supra note 75, at 5 ("[Crime] tends to concentrate at
particular places for reasons that can be explained in relation to victim and
offender interaction and the opportunities that exist to commit crime.").





n77.  Id. at 5 ("These concentrations or clusters of crime are commonly referred
to as hotspots - geographic locations "of high crime concentration, relative to
the distribution of crime across the whole region of interest.'").





n78.  Wim Bernasco, Them Again?: Same-Offender Involvement in Repeat and Near
Repeat Burglaries, 5 Eur. J. Criminology 411, 412 (2008) ("Since the
introduction of victimization surveys in the 1970s, it has become widely
recognized that crime is concentrated among relatively few victims. A
significant number of people become repeat victims, some of them over and over
again." (citation omitted)).





n79.  Joel M. Caplan et al., Rutgers Ctr. on Pub. Sec., Joint Operational
Utility of Hotspot, Near Repeat and Risk Terrain Modeling Techniques for Crime
Analysis 1 (2011), available at
http://www.rutgerscps.org/rtm/JointOperationalUtility_Br ief.pdf ("Hotspot
mapping is the use of cartographic techniques to create and visualize crime
clusters. Conventional hotspot mapping uses the locations of past events to
predict locations of future similar events ... .").





n80.  See Anthony A. Braga et al., The Relevance of Micro Places to Citywide
Robbery Trends: A Longitudinal Analysis of Robbery Incidents at Street Corners
and Block Faces in Boston, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 7, 9 (2011)
("Criminological evidence on the spatial concentration of crime suggests that a
small number of highly active micro places in cities - frequently called "hot
spots' - may be primarily responsible for overall citywide crime trends.").





n81.  Id. at 10 ("[A] research team from the University of Maryland analyzed
crime incidents at the level of street segments in Seattle over a 14-year period
and found that, year to year, about 50 percent of the crime was concentrated in
approximately 4.5 percent of street segments.").





n82.  Lawrence W. Sherman et al., Hot Spots of Predatory Crime: Routine
Activities and the Criminology of Place, 27 Criminology 27, 37 (1989).





n83.  Braga et al., supra note 80, at 9 ("In fact, roughly 8 percent of street
segments and intersections in Boston are responsible for nearly 66 percent of
street robbery incidents between 1980 and 2008 even when controlling for prior
levels of robbery and existing trends.").





n84.  Lisa Tompson & Michael Townsley, (Looking) Back to the Future: Using
Space-Time Patterns to Better Predict the Location of Street Crime, 12 Int'l J.
Police Sci. & Mgmt. 23, 25 (2010) (U.K.) (studying how time of day can add
predictive accuracy to crime hot spotting).





n85.  Braga et al., supra note 80, at 11 ("Studies of the spatial distribution
of robbery in urban environments have also revealed that a small number of micro
places generate a disproportionate number of robberies. Certain high-risk
facilities, such as bars, convenience stores, and banks, at particular places
also tend to experience a disproportionate amount of robbery.").





n86.  Tompson & Townsley, supra note 84, at 24 ("Research has repeatedly
demonstrated that offenders prefer to return to a location associated with a
high chance of success instead of choosing random targets.").





n87.  Joel M. Caplan, Mapping the Spatial Influence of Crime Correlates: A
Comparison of Operationalization Schemes and Implications for Crime Analysis and
Criminal Justice Practice, 13 Cityscape, no. 3, 2011, at 57, 60.





n88.  Id. at 58-59 ("Location matters when assessing the likelihood of crime
because crimes cluster at certain locations."). "Crime control and prevention
activities must consider not only who is involved in the criminal events, "but
also the nature of the environments in which these activities take place'
because opportunity for crime is an attribute of all places." Id. at 61
(citation omitted).





n89.  Id. at 69 ("Qualities of places themselves do not create crime. They
simply point to locations where, if the conditions are right, the risk of crime
or victimization will be high.").





n90.  The terminology of an environmental backcloth is used to describe the
dynamic realities of areas of heightened crime:



   This backcloth is dynamic and can be influenced by the forces of "crime
attractors" and "crime generators" which contribute to the existence of crime
hotspots. Attractors are those specific things that attract offenders to places
to commit crime. Generators refer to the greater opportunities for crime that
emerge from increased volume of interaction occurring at these areas. The
concentration of crime at specific places or hotspots is consistent with the
idea of an environmental backcloth [and] is well supported by research ... .

 Id. at 60 (citations omitted).





n91.  Shane D. Johnson et al., Space-Time Patterns of Risk: A Cross National
Assessment of Residential Burglary Victimization, 23 J. Quantitative Criminology
201, 203-04 (2007).





n92.  Id. at 203. Opportunity theory holds "that crime rates will be highest in
locations that contain the best opportunity for crime." Id. "An important
finding in this body of research [on opportunity theory] was that criminals did
not travel far to exploit opportunities for crime." Id.





n93.  Joel M. Caplan et al., Risk Terrain Modeling: Brokering Criminological
Theory and GIS Methods for Crime Forecasting, 28 Just. Q. 360, 364 (2011)
("While a crime event occurs at a finite place, risk is a continuous dynamic
value that increases or decreases intensity and clusters or dissipates in
different places over time, even places remote from a crime event. Valuations of
risk are tied to geography and, regarding crime, risk values are the measure of
a place's potential for a crime event to occur. Geographic risk is determined by
a nexus of certain factors and it changes only as the characteristics and
interactions of those factors vary. Sometimes all of those factors must interact
at the same place and time for the event to occur.").





n94.  Theories of criminology have always utilized a predictive element. Routine
activities theory is a prediction that if certain factors exist there is more of
a risk of crime. See Elizabeth R. Groff, Adding the Temporal and Spatial Aspects
of Routine Activities: A Further Test of Routine Activity Theory, 21 Security J.
95, 98-99 (2008) (studying the theory of street robbery "based on routine
activity theory").





n95.  Lawrence E. Cohen & Marcus Felson, Social Change and Crime Rate Trends: A
Routine Activity Approach, 44 Am. Soc. Rev. 588 (1979); Johnson et al., supra
note 91, at 203 (postulating that "crime would not take place unless a motivated
offender comes into contact with a suitable target (opportunity for crime) in
the absence of a capable guardian (often, though not always, within a socially
disorganized community)").





n96.  See Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12, 21.





n97.  Shane D. Johnson et al., Offender as Forager? A Direct Test of the Boost
Account of Victimization, 25 J. Quantitative Criminology 181, 184 (2009).





n98.  Caplan et al., supra note 79, at 5 ("Prospective mapping of violent
crimes, therefore, must incorporate both the spatial-temporal patterns of recent
known violent crime incidents and the environmental risks of micro-level places
if it is to yield the most efficient and actionable information for police
resource allocation and crime prevention efforts.").





n99.  See generally Chainey & Ratcliffe, supra note 26, at 8; Harries, supra
note 26, at 92-93 (describing the history of crime mapping); Paulsen & Robinson,
supra note 26, at 154; Anselin et al., supra note 26 (describing analytical
methods for studying the relationship between location and crime).





n100.  Mohler et al., supra note 48, at 104 (analyzing the predictive accuracy
of forecasts created using crime patterns); Martin B. Short et al., Dissipation
and Displacement of Hotspots in Reaction-Diffusion Models of Crime, 107 Proc.
Nat'l Acad. Sci. U.S. Am. 3961, 3964 (2010) (describing how research suggests
hotspot policing strategies are effective at reducing crime).





n101.  See infra Part I.2.a.





n102.  See infra Part I.2.b.





n103.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12 ("Research demonstrates that prior
victimisation is a very good predictor of future risk and that when it occurs,
repeat victimisation tends to occur swiftly." (citations omitted)).





n104.  Caplan et al., supra note 79, at 2 ("Near repeat refers to when a crime
incident occurs nearby a precursory crime location within a specific period of
time. Near repeat analysis adds a temporal aspect to point pattern and hotspot
analysis by suggesting - with a certain level of statistical confidence, that
new crimes happen within a certain distance of past crimes and within a certain
period of time from the prior incident.").





n105.  Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412; Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 13
("The (communicated) risk of burglary to nearby properties (within 400m of each
other) was shown to be elevated for a short period of time, typically one-month,
after which risks returned to pre-event levels. This pattern of space-time
clustering has been referred to as the "near repeat' phenomenon to reflect the
association with repeat victimisation."); Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 215;
Jerry H. Ratcliffe & George F. Rengert, Near-Repeat Patterns in Philadelphia
Shootings, 21 Security J. 58, 58 (2008) ("The near-repeat phenomenon states that
if a location is the target of a crime such as burglary, the homes within a
relatively short distance have an increased chance of being burgled for a
limited number of weeks.").





n106.  See, e.g., Graham Farrell & Ken Pease, Once Bitten, Twice Bitten: Repeat
Victimisation and Its Implications for Crime Prevention 21 (Gloria Laycock ed.,
1993); Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412; Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12;
Chainey et al., supra note 75, at 11, 19; Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 215.





n107.  Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 206-14, 215 ("For every data set
analyzed, more burglaries occurred close to each other in space and time than
would be expected on the basis of chance, and the size of the effect typically
conformed to expectation. It is important to note that the results do more than
confirm that burglary clusters in space. They also demonstrate that when a
burglary occurs at one location, a further burglary is likely to occur nearby
and that it will do so swiftly. As time elapses, this communication of risk
decays.").





n108.  Id. at 210.





n109.  Bernasco, supra note 78, at 414.





n110.  Farrell & Pease, supra note 106, at 21 (citing David Forrester et al.,
The Kirkholt Burglary Prevention Project, Rochdale 9 (Kevin Heal ed., 1988))
("Once a house has been burgled, its chance of repeat victimisation was four
times the rate of houses that had not been burgled at all.").





n111.  Id. at 8 (noting that one study in Saskatoon, Canada found that ""the
likelihood of a repeat burglary within one month was over twelve times the
expected rate, but this declined to less than twice the expected rate when
burglaries six months apart were considered. Analysis of the repeat burglaries
within one month showed that half of the second victimisations occurred within
seven days of the first'" (quoting Natalie Polvi et al., The Time Course of
Repeat Burglary Victimization, 31 Brit. J. Criminology 411, 412 (1991))).





n112.  See Bernasco, supra note 78, at 427-28 (suggesting that, based on the
author's research, "if you want to prevent burglaries, focus on recently burgled
properties and victims as well as on nearby properties and residents, react very
quickly, and allocate resources elsewhere when the elevated risk has
decreased").





n113.  Beiser, supra note 56.





n114.  Ashley B. Pitcher & Shane D. Johnson, Exploring Theories of Victimization
Using a Mathematical Model of Burglary, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 83, 85-86
(2011) (discussing the flag and boost theories behind the near-repeat
phenomenon).





n115.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12.





n116.  Shane D. Johnson, Repeat Burglary Victimisation: A Tale of Two Theories,
4 J. Experimental Criminology 215, 217 (2008) (Neth.) (emphasis omitted).





n117.  See Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12; Johnson, supra note 116, at
216; see also M.B. Short et al., Measuring and Modeling Repeat and Near-Repeat
Burglary Effects, 25 J. Quantitative Criminology 325, 326 (2009) (noting that
"event dependence suggests that some aspect of the burglar's previous experience
victimizing the house increases their [sic] preference to return").





n118.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 13.





n119.  Bernasco, supra note 78, at 423-25 (concluding that "both repeat
burglaries and near repeat burglaries are much more likely to involve the same
offender than are spatially or temporally unrelated burglaries"); Johnson et
al., supra note 97, at 194 ("For repeat burglary victimization, detected events
were almost always cleared to the same offender. Moreover, events that occurred
closest to each other in space and time were those most likely to involve one or
more of the same offenders.").





n120.  Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 204 (citing U. Ericsson, Straight from
the Horse's Mouth, 43 Forensic Update 23 (1995) (U.K.)).





n121.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 13 ("Consideration of the reasons
typically given by offenders for returning to the same properties suggests that
these are bounded by rational choices that are entirely commensurate with the
boost account. These include familiarity with the house layout, the risks
involved, and the known availability of saleable goods. Thus, the overwhelming
evidence from the research undertaken is that the same perpetrators are
responsible for the bulk of offences against the same target." (citation
omitted)).





n122.  Id. ("Research ... suggests that the risk of victimisation is
communicable, with the risk of victimisation following an initial burglary not
only affecting the burgled home but, in a similar way to the spread of a
communicable disease, also extending to properties nearby." (citations
omitted)); see Johnson, supra note 116, at 216 ("The initial offence boosts the
future likelihood of victimisation, and hence the observed correlation between
historic and prospective victimisation is due to a contagion-like process."
(citation omitted)).





n123.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12 ("Thus, following an initial
crime, the risk of victimisation is "boosted.' Here, the assumption is that the
same offender, or group of offenders, will be involved in the crime series and
that experience gained during the first event is put to use later." (citation
omitted)).





n124.  See Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 202 ("The pattern of clustering in
time and space has significant implications for the extent and choice of crime
prevention measures as well as the value of any predictive work that could
influence detection activity.").





n125.  See Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412 ("It has recently been suggested that
the elevated risk in the aftermath of victimization may spill over to the social
and spatial environment. It was demonstrated that, in the wake of a domestic
burglary, not only the property itself but also properties near the victimized
property have an elevated burglary risk, and similar findings have been reported
with respect to shootings and vehicle crime." (citations omitted)).





n126.  See Johnson et al., supra note 97, at 197 ("The finding that TFMV [theft
from motor vehicles] conforms to the same pattern as burglary suggests that this
approach of prospective mapping may be useful for this type of crime also.");
Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 216-17 ("Other acquisitive crimes such as
theft from automobile are likely to share motivational factors with burglary and
are committed with a high enough frequency to warrant study.").





n127.  See Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 216 ("Besides housing density and
transportation infrastructure, the communication of risk may also be influenced
by social, demographic and physical factors that characterize residential
areas.").





n128.  See Johnson, supra note 116, at 236 ("To illustrate, consider that as
homes are stationary, any burglar can decide to return to a preferred location
so long as he can remember where it is. In the case of street robbery, an
offender may not remember exactly what a particular victim looked like, or know
where they are next likely to encounter them. Thus, in the case of the latter,
the convergence in space and time of the victim and offender will often be the
result of a more complex process over which the offender may have little
control. In such cases, the contribution of a boost process (as currently
conceived) may be small, and patterns of concentration at the victim level may
be more strongly influenced by stable individual differences across potential
victims." (footnote omitted)).





n129.  See Farrell & Pease, supra note 106, at 22 ("From the time-course
analysis, for maximum preventive effect, [resources] must be in place within
twenty four hours. After victimisation there exists a "heightened risk period'
for revictimisation. The risk declines with time as the time-course smooths out
at a low-level of revictimisation, and so a late response is less efficient to
the point of uselessness."); Johnson, supra note 116, at 215-16 (finding that
research shows that repeat victimization is a good indicator of future
victimization, at least under short time frames).





n130.  Johnson, supra note 116, at 226 & fig.2 (showing results indicating more
repeat burglaries in the first two weeks than in later weeks); accord Pitcher &
Johnson, supra note 114, at 85 ("When repeat burglary victimization occurs, it
is more likely to do so swiftly than after some time has elapsed. In fact, the
time course of repeat victimization fits an exponential decay function rather
well. More recent work suggests that this phenomenon extends to nearby homes
such that when one house is victimized, those nearby also appear to experience a
temporary elevation in risk. When this occurs, it has been referred to as a near
repeat." (citations omitted)).





n131.  Almost all the studies mentioned in this Article caution against
extrapolating too far from the findings included under the limited tests
conducted.





n132.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 342.





n133.  Caplan, supra note 87, at 68.





n134.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 343.





n135.  Certain criteria used in data analysis could be critiqued as leading to
gender or racial profiling. From an analyst's perspective, these data points are
based on statistical correlations from past crime data. From a legal
perspective, these types of profiles, while questionable, have not been deemed
unconstitutional. See infra Part II.B.1.





n136.  Paul & Joiner, supra note 38, at 7.





n137.  Id.





n138.  Some near-repeat analysis holds for violent crimes. See Caplan et al.,
supra note 79, at 2-3 (noting that near-repeat analysis is useful in the
"immediate aftermath of a new violent criminal event," and the validation of
"nearest neighbor analysis and hotspot maps that violent crime incidents cluster
spatially and temporally" (emphasis omitted)).





n139.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 345-46 (noting that, to predict future
shootings, researchers identified "seven risk layers that [they] believed would
accurately forecast the locations of shooting incidents in Newark: locations of
drug arrests, proximity to "at-risk' housing developments, "risky facilities,'
locations of gang activity, known home addresses of parolees previously
incarcerated for violent crimes and/or violations of drug distribution laws,
locations of past shooting incidents, and locations of past gun robberies").





n140.  Xu et al., supra note 37, at 2 ("Gun shootings are not randomly
distributed throughout a terrain; but rather, are concentrated in a
statistically significant way around certain features. In Newark and Irvington,
these features are middle and high schools, bus stops, and public housing.").





n141.  See id. at 2-3.





n142.  Caplan et al., supra note 93, at 374 ("As much as 21% more shootings
occurred in high-risk cells predicted by the risk terrain map compared to the
retrospective map... . The risk terrain innovation therefore doubles the number
of shooting incident locations that were correctly predicted compared with the
conventional approach."); Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 352 ("The risk
terrain model outperformed retrospective maps across each high risk cell
designation method and across all time periods.").





n143.  Caplan, supra note 87, at 69-70 (citations omitted).





n144.  See Caplan et al., supra note 93; Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 344
(recognizing issues central to the validity of RTM including (1) "selection
criteria used in determining which risk layers to include in risk terrain
models" and (2) "best models"); New Technique Predicts Crime Risk, Informant
(Kansas City Mo. Police Dep't, Kansas City, Mo.), Aug. 2010, at 1 ("[Risk
terrain modeling] attempts to predict where crime will happen and then address
it before it does. RTM uses crime-mapping software the police department already
has but takes it to another level. Instead of just including historical
information about crime hotspots, it incorporates a variety of other factors
(like vacant buildings, where parolees live, or almost any other factor
imaginable) to create a map that highlights areas at highest risk for crime.").





n145.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 347 ("Newark Police personnel
identified two offender types as playing prominent roles in shootings: Gang
members and parolees previously incarcerated for violent crime and/or drug
distribution.").





n146.  See Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412 ("Patterns of risk communication
might also operate in social networks, so that family members, friends,
classmates or colleagues of victims are "infected' with a temporarily elevated
risk of victimization.").





n147.  Caplan et al., supra note 79, at 3 ("Risk terrain maps can be used to
forecast areas with the greatest potential for violent crimes to occur in the
future, not just because police statistics show that similar crimes occurred
there in the past, but because the environmental conditions are ripe (if they
remain unchanged) for violent crimes to occur there tomorrow.").





n148.  This might include the placement of video surveillance systems or even
aerial drone cameras.





n149.  Vince Beiser, Criminal Intent, Wired, Dec. 2011, at 60 (finding that
police in Minneapolis, Minnesota could target gang activity near libraries
because of gang member use of free internet access at local libraries).





n150.  Joel Rubin, UCLA Does the Math on Gang Crimes, L.A. Times, Nov. 1, 2011,
at AA3.





n151.  M. Todd Henderson et al., Predicting Crime, 52 Ariz. L. Rev. 15, 27-28
(2010) ("In their book Is Crime Predictable?, Carolyn Block and Sheryl Knight
attempt to predict future trends in specific types of crime based on data
gathered from past criminal activity taking place in the Chicago area. The
predictive accuracy of their model varied widely depending on the type of crime
in question. For example, rates of larceny and theft were by far the most
predictable, with the number of offenses in eleven cities predicted within 10%
for the year 1982. In contrast, there were accurate predictions of burglary in
only three out of the fourteen cities studied, and predictive success for
aggravated assault varied widely, from very accurate predictions to completely
unpredictable, depending on the city in question." (footnotes omitted)).





n152.  Casady, supra note 36, at 1 ("Parolees, probationers, and registered sex
offenders have been identified in computer databases, and their homes,
workplaces, and treatment centers can be geographically mapped. We can
visualize, measure, and define concentrations of such past offenders. We can
also predict who is at greatest risk for criminal behavior - unemployed young
men, gang members, or chronic truants, for example."); cf. Eric S. Janus &
Robert A. Prentky, Forensic Use of Actuarial Risk Assessment with Sex Offenders:
Accuracy, Admissibility and Accountability, 40 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 1443, 1454
(2003) (discussing the use of the actuarial method of risk assessment to
determine the likelihood of recidivism in sex offenders).





n153.  E.g., Nadya Labi, Misfortune Teller, Atlantic, Jan./Feb. 2012, at 18, 19
(discussing Professor Richard Berk's work in predicting recidivism rates of
parolees in Pennsylvania).





n154.  See, e.g., Shima Baradaran & Frank L. McIntyre, Predicting Violence, 90
Tex. L. Rev. 497, 500-01, 522-24 (2012); Richard Berk, Balancing the Costs of
Forecasting Errors in Parole Decisions, 74 Alb. L. Rev. 1071, 1074 (2010/2011);
see also Paul H. Robinson, Commentary, Punishing Dangerousness: Cloaking
Preventive Detention as Criminal Justice, 114 Harv. L. Rev. 1429, 1432 (2001)
(discussing the shift towards the incarceration of dangerous offenders).





n155.  U.S. Const. amend. IV.





n156.  Id.





n157.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 21-22 (1968) (defining the question of
reasonable suspicion as whether "the facts available to the officer at the
moment of the seizure or the search "warrant a man of reasonable caution in the
belief' that the action taken was appropriate").





n158.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 238 (1983).





n159.  See United States v. Grubbs, 547 U.S. 90, 95 (2006).





n160.  Id. ("In the typical case where the police seek permission to search a
house for an item they believe is already located there, the magistrate's
determination that there is probable cause for the search amounts to a
prediction that the item will still be there when the warrant is executed.").





n161.  Id. at 95 n.2 ("The probable-cause showing may have grown "stale' in view
of the time that has passed since the warrant was issued.").





n162.  Brinegar v. United States, 338 U.S. 160, 175-76 (1949) (defining probable
cause).





n163.  Grubbs, 547 U.S. at 94. In fact, the availability of "anticipatory
warrants" in which there is "probable cause that at some future time (but not
presently) certain evidence of crime will be located at a specified place,"
demonstrates the central role of predictive judgments. Id. (quoting 2 Wayne R.
LaFave, Search and Seizure § 3.7(c), at 398 (4th ed. 2004)). As long as there is
a fair probability that evidence of the crime will occur in a particular place
(because of triggering conditions that also have a fair probability of
occurring) then probable cause has been established. Id. at 95.





n164.  See Daniel J. Steinbock, Data Matching, Data Mining, and Due Process, 40
Ga. L. Rev. 1, 38 (2005) ("The Fourth Amendment permits interferences with
liberty and privacy based on predictions, often made by field officers, without
notice to or consultation with the suspect.").





n165.  See Andrew E. Taslitz, Fortune-Telling and the Fourth Amendment: Of
Terrorism, Slippery Slopes, and Predicting the Future, 58 Rutgers L. Rev. 195,
201 (2005) ("What is less often emphasized is that Katz faced the Justices with
the question whether it is possible to authorize a search for non-existent
evidence - evidence that may or may not come into being in the future.
Specifically, [Katz] involved the warrantless use of an electronic listening and
recording device attached to the outside of a telephone booth to monitor
expected conversations concerning illegal gambling.").





n166.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30-31 (1968); accord United States v. Sokolow,
490 U.S. 1, 7 (1989) ("Police can stop and briefly detain a person for
investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion supported by
articulable facts that criminal activity "may be afoot,' even if the officer
lacks probable cause." (quoting Terry, 392 U.S. at 30)); see also id. ("The
Fourth Amendment requires "some minimal level of objective justification' for
making the stop." (quoting INS v. Delgado, 466 U.S. 210, 217 (1984))).





n167.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 241 (1983) ("Probable cause deals "with
probabilities.'" (quoting Brinegar, 338 U.S. at 175)).





n168.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) ("Reasonable suspicion, like
probable cause, is dependent upon both the content of information possessed by
police and its degree of reliability. Both factors - quantity and quality - are
considered in the "totality of the circumstances - the whole picture' that must
be taken into account when evaluating whether there is reasonable suspicion."
(quoting United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417 (1981))).





n169.  As with the nature of all probabilities, some predictions will be wrong.





n170.  See infra Part II.





n171.  See Florida v. Riley, 488 U.S. 445, 463-64 (1989) (Brennan, J.,
dissenting) ("Justice Frankfurter once noted that "it is a fair summary of
history to say that the safeguards of liberty have frequently been forged in
controversies involving not very nice people,' and nowhere is this observation
more apt than in the area of the Fourth Amendment, whose words have necessarily
been given meaning largely through decisions suppressing evidence of criminal
activity." (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Rabinowitz, 339
U.S. 56, 69 (1950) (Frankfurter, J., dissenting))).





n172.  See supra notes 156-67 and accompanying text.





n173.  White, 496 U.S. at 328-29 ("Gates made clear, however, that those factors
that had been considered critical under Aguilar and Spinelli - an informant's
"veracity,' "reliability,' and "basis of knowledge' - remain "highly relevant in
determining the value of his report.' These factors are also relevant in the
reasonable-suspicion context, although allowance must be made in applying them
for the lesser showing required to meet that standard." (quoting Illinois v.
Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 230 (1983))).





n174.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 231-32 (""The process does not deal with hard
certainties, but with probabilities. Long before the law of probabilities was
articulated as such, practical people formulated certain common-sense
conclusions about human behavior; jurors as factfinders are permitted to do the
same - and so are law enforcement officers. Finally, the evidence thus collected
must be seen and weighed not in terms of library analysis by scholars, but as
understood by those versed in the field of law enforcement.'" (quoting United
States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 418 (1981))).





n175.  Id. at 225.





n176.  Id.





n177.  Id. at 226-27.





n178.  Id. at 246; see also id. at 241 ("Our decisions applying the
totality-of-the-circumstances analysis outlined above have consistently
recognized the value of corroboration of details of an informant's tip by
independent police work.").





n179.  Id. at 242-43.





n180.  Draper v. United States, 358 U.S. 307, 313-14 (1959).





n181.  Id.





n182.  Id. It is important to note the details involved. The tip in Draper was
not that there would be a man carrying drugs, but rather the following:



   Draper would arrive in Denver on a train from Chicago on one of two days, and
that he would be carrying a quantity of heroin. The informant also supplied a
fairly detailed physical description of Draper, and predicted that he would be
wearing a light colored raincoat, brown slacks, and black shoes, and would be
walking "real fast."

 Gates, 462 U.S. at 242 (quoting Draper, 358 U.S. at 309).





n183.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 245-46; Draper, 358 U.S. at 313-14.





n184.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 231 ("Perhaps the central teaching of our decisions
bearing on the probable-cause standard is that it is a "practical, nontechnical
conception.'" (quoting Brinegar v. United States, 338 U.S. 160, 176 (1949))).





n185.  See infra notes 187-97 and accompanying text.





n186.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 332 (1990) ("Although it is a close case,
we conclude that under the totality of the circumstances the anonymous tip, as
corroborated, exhibited sufficient indicia of reliability to justify the
investigatory stop of respondent's car.").





n187.  Id. at 327.





n188.  Id.





n189.  Id.





n190.  Id. at 331 ("Given the fact that the officers proceeded to the indicated
address immediately after the call and that respondent emerged not too long
thereafter, it appears from the record before us that respondent's departure
from the building was within the timeframe predicted by the caller.").





n191.  Id. at 332.





n192.  Id. at 330 ("Thus, if a tip has a relatively low degree of reliability,
more information will be required to establish the requisite quantum of
suspicion than would be required if the tip were more reliable.").





n193.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 268, 271 (2000) ("The anonymous call
concerning J.L. provided no predictive information and therefore left the police
without means to test the informant's knowledge or credibility.").





n194.  Id. at 268.





n195.  Id.





n196.  Id.





n197.  Id. at 270.





n198.  Id. at 270-71.





n199.  Taslitz, supra note 165, at 203-04 ("But the Court has never entirely
abandoned the individualized suspicion mandate for traditional criminal searches
for evidence concerning currently non-existent crimes, and the Court has always
required a relatively brief period of time between when suspicion arises and
when the search or seizure must be executed.").





n200.  In J.L., the timing of the tip to observation was quick, although there
was no firm record established. J.L., 529 U.S. at 268 ("Sometime after the
police received the tip - the record does not say how long - two officers were
instructed to respond. They arrived at the bus stop about six minutes later and
saw three black males "just hanging out [there].'" (alteration in original)
(quoting Petition for Writ of Certiorari to the Supreme Court of Fla. at A-42,
J.L., 529 U.S. 266 (No. 98-1993))).





n201.  See Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 233 (1983); see also Adams v.
Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 146 (1972) ("Applying these principles to the present
case, we believe that Sgt. Connolly acted justifiably in responding to his
informant's tip. The informant was known to him personally and had provided him
with information in the past. This is a stronger case than obtains in the case
of an anonymous telephone tip. The informant here came forward personally to
give information that was immediately verifiable at the scene.").





n202.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 233.





n203.  Where informants are known, however, a lesser degree of corroboration is
required. Compare Williams, 407 U.S. at 146-47 (upholding a Terry stop based on
an uncorroborated tip from a known and previously reliable informant), with
Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 331-32 (1990) (holding that an anonymous tip
justified a Terry stop because both innocent details and predictive information
were corroborated). A known informant's reputation may be assessed, and he may
be held accountable if his allegations turn out to be fabricated. J.L., 529 U.S.
at 270.





n204.  See Williams, 407 U.S. at 147.





n205.  See id.





n206.  See, e.g., Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 493 n.2 (1983) (plurality
opinion) ("The "drug courier profile' is an abstract of characteristics found to
be typical of persons transporting illegal drugs.").





n207.  This section does not address the racial or class-based critiques of this
form of identification. See generally R. Richard Banks, Race-Based Suspect
Selection and Colorblind Equal Protection Doctrine and Discourse, 48 UCLA L.
Rev. 1075, 1083-88 (2001); Samuel R. Gross & Katherine Y. Barnes, Road Work:
Racial Profiling and Drug Interdiction on the Highway, 101 Mich. L. Rev. 651,
655 (2002); David A. Harris, The Stories, the Statistics, and the Law: Why
"Driving While Black" Matters, 84 Minn. L. Rev. 265, 273 & n.48, 274 (1999);
Kevin R. Johnson, Essay, How Racial Profiling in America Became the Law of the
Land: United States v. Brignoni-Ponce and Whren v. United States and the Need
for Truly Rebellious Lawyering, 98 Geo. L.J. 1005, 1006-08 (2010); Sheri Lynn
Johnson, Race and the Decision to Detain a Suspect, 93 Yale L.J. 214 (1983)
[hereinafter Johnson, Race and the Decision]; Anthony E. Mucchetti, Driving
While Brown: A Proposal for Ending Racial Profiling in Emerging Latino
Communities, 8 Harv. Latino L. Rev. 1, 18 (2005).





n208.  See Bernard E. Harcourt & Tracey L. Meares, Randomization and the Fourth
Amendment, 78 U. Chi. L. Rev. 809, 813 (2011). Courts naturally think of
suspicion based on "group-based identifiers." Id.





n209.  Id. ("Suspicion attaches to group-based traits, conditions, and
behaviors; the police identify sets of individuals with motives, individuals who
match a drug-courier profile, individuals who fit an eye-witness description,
individuals who are in a specific location, or individuals who have the same
blood type.").





n210.  Tracey Maclin, The Decline of the Right of Locomotion: The Fourth
Amendment on the Streets, 75 Cornell L. Rev. 1258 (1990); see also David
Rudovsky, The Impact of the War on Drugs on Procedural Fairness and Racial
Equality, 1994 U. Chi. Legal F. 237, 240.





n211.  See United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 268-69, 277 (2002).





n212.  See Tracey Maclin, Race and the Fourth Amendment, 51 Vand. L. Rev. 333,
344-46 (1998). In other contexts, the Supreme Court has obliquely acknowledged
the unconstitutionality of strict racial profiles, yet at the same time it has
allowed racially based profiles to remain factors in the reasonable suspicion
analysis. Id. at 344. This can most easily be seen in the border patrol stop
cases in which race or perceived national origin can be a contextual factor in
determining reasonable suspicion. Again, the underlying logic of these profiles
is that at certain locations (the border), with certain crimes (smuggling), a
predictive profile of a typical suspect is appropriate in determining reasonable
suspicion for a particular suspect.





n213.  Bernard E. Harcourt, Rethinking Racial Profiling: A Critique of the
Economics, Civil Liberties, and Constitutional Literature, and of Criminal
Profiling More Generally, 71 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1275, 1307 (2004) (emphasis
omitted) (footnote omitted).





n214.  Steinbock, supra note 164, at 29-30 ("Although predictive profiling is
not inconsistent with the Fourth Amendment, the factors used must indicate to
the investigating officers (and, later, the reviewing court) the requisite
degree of suspicion. Nothing suggests that these actors should defer to a
computer algorithm for projecting that level of suspicion, but nothing rules out
that possibility either." (footnote omitted)).





n215.  Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690, 692 (1996); United States v.
Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 10 n.6 (1989); id. at 13 (Marshall, J., dissenting); INS v.
Delgado, 466 U.S. 210, 215-17 (1984); Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 493,
497-501 (1983) (plurality opinion); Reid v. Georgia, 448 U.S. 438, 440 (1980)
(per curiam); United States v. Mendenhall, 446 U.S. 544, 547 n.1 (1980); id. at
551-57 (Stewart, J., concurring).





n216.  Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 10 (recognizing that drug courier profiles are not
inappropriate to consider in determining reasonable suspicion).





n217.  Id. at 3-4.





n218.  Id. at 10 n.6 ("Agent Kempshall testified that respondent's behavior "had
all the classic aspects of a drug courier.' Since 1974, the DEA has trained
narcotics officers to identify drug smugglers on the basis of the sort of
circumstantial evidence at issue here." (citation omitted)).





n219.  See id. at 8 (recognizing that profiling based on probabilistic evidence
can factor into the reasonable suspicion analysis); see also id. at 13
(Marshall, J., dissenting) ("Reflexive reliance on a profile of drug courier
characteristics runs a far greater risk than does ordinary, case-by-case police
work of subjecting innocent individuals to unwarranted police harassment and
detention.").





n220.  Maclin, supra note 212, at 359.





n221.  Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 14 n.1 (Marshall, J., dissenting) ("Even if such
profiles had reliable predictive value, their utility would be short lived, for
drug couriers will adapt their behavior to sidestep detection from
profile-focused officers."); cf. Michael O. Finkelstein & Bruce Levin, On the
Probative Value of Evidence from a Screening Search, 43 Jurimetrics J. 265, 272
(2003) (concluding "profiles are somewhat predictive but not accurate enough to
show a reasonable probability of crime, given the rarity of drug couriers").





n222.  Tracey L. Meares & Bernard E. Harcourt, Foreword: Transparent
Adjudication and Social Science Research in Constitutional Criminal Procedure,
90 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 733, 789-90 (2000) (analyzing New York City report
on stop and frisks that found one arrest for every 7.3 Terry stops). See
generally Charles L. Becton, The Drug Courier Profile: "All Seems Infected That
th' Infected Spy, As All Looks Yellow to the Jaundic'd Eye", 65 N.C. L. Rev. 417
(1987).





n223.  Reid v. Georgia, 448 U.S. 438, 441 (1980) (per curiam) (holding,
pre-Gates, that profile evidence alone is insufficient for reasonable suspicion
because the "circumstances describe a very large category of presumably innocent
travelers, who would be subject to virtually random seizures were the Court to
conclude that as little foundation as there was in this case could justify a
seizure"); Finkelstein & Levin, supra note 221, at 271 ("The justices generally
agree that a profile, standing alone, does not constitute probable cause for an
arrest. There is less agreement on whether the DEA profiles can provide a basis
for reasonable suspicion. Those who uphold stops based primarily on profiles
appear to accept the DEA assertion that the profiled characteristics, considered
collectively, are common for drug couriers but rare for normal travelers. Those
who oppose stops based on profiles argue that many normal travelers would fit
the profile description.").





n224.  Tung Yin, The Probative Values and Pitfalls of Drug Courier Profiles as
Probabilistic Evidence, 5 Tex. F. on C.L. & C.R. 141, 152 (2000).





n225.  Becton, supra note 222, at 429.





n226.  See id.; see also Yin, supra note 224, at 148 (recognizing the
"chameleon-like way" the profile adapts and criticism that the profile allows
for an "ad hoc rationalization[]" to justify the stop).





n227.  Yin, supra note 224, at 152; see also United States v. Zapata-Ibarra, 223
F.3d 281, 282-83 (5th Cir. 2000) (Weiner, J., dissenting).





n228.  See Zapata-Ibarra, 223 F.3d at 282-83 (Weiner, J., dissenting); Yin,
supra note 224, at 152.





n229.  Yin, supra note 224, at 151.





n230.  See Craig S. Lerner, Reasonable Suspicion and Mere Hunches, 59 Vand. L.
Rev. 407, 437-39 (2006); Andrew E. Taslitz, Police Are People Too: Cognitive
Obstacles to, and Opportunities for, Police Getting the Individualized Suspicion
Judgment Right, 8 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 7, 37 (2010).





n231.  Harcourt & Meares, supra note 208, at 813.





n232.  See id. ("Suspicion attaches to a group trait that an individual
displays, such as having a bulge in one's pants pocket, fitting a description in
the vicinity of a recently committed offense, throwing away a plastic vial at
the sight of a police patrol car, or driving a car with Florida license plates
on the New Jersey Turnpike. These are group-based determinations often made
irrespective of the officer's knowledge of whether a specific offense has been
committed, and suspicion potentially attaches to all individuals within these
categories. Suspicion in these cases is "individualized' only in the sense that
it attaches to an individual because he or she is a member of the suspect group.
In other words, in most cases of policing, suspicion does not originate at the
individual level.").





n233.  Again, the legal standard remains unchanged: "The officer [making a Terry
stop] ... must be able to articulate something more than an "inchoate and
unparticularized suspicion or hunch.'" United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 7
(1989) (quoting Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968)).





n234.  Reasonable suspicion "must be based on specific, objective facts," see
Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 51 (1979), and requires that "the detaining
officers ... have a particularized and objective basis for suspecting the
particular person stopped of criminal activity." United States v. Cortez, 449
U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981); see also Reid v. Georgia, 448 U.S. 438, 441 (1980) (per
curiam).





n235.  See generally City of Indianapolis v. Edmond, 531 U.S. 32, 46-47 (2000)
(declaring that general crime suppression techniques violate the Fourth
Amendment).





n236.  Cf. Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 14 n.1 (Marshall, J., dissenting).





n237.  Cortez, 449 U.S. at 418.





n238.  David H. Kaye, Probability, Individualization, and Uniqueness in Forensic
Science Evidence: Listening to the Academies, 75 Brook. L. Rev. 1163, 1178-79
(2010); Laurence H. Tribe, Trial by Mathematics: Precision and Ritual in the
Legal Process, 84 Harv. L. Rev. 1329, 1330 n.2 (1971) ("All factual evidence is
ultimately "statistical,' and all legal proof ultimately "probabilistic,' in the
... sense that no conclusion can ever be drawn from empirical data without some
step of inductive inference ... .").





n239.  Arnold H. Loewy, Rethinking Search and Seizure in a Post-9/11 World, 80
Miss. L.J. 1507, 1518 (2011).





n240.  The scholarly commentary on the role of probabilities is vast and
nuanced. See generally Max Minzner, Putting Probability Back into Probable
Cause, 87 Tex. L. Rev. 913 (2009); Margaret Raymond, Down on the Corner, Out in
the Street: Considering the Character of the Neighborhood in Evaluating
Reasonable Suspicion, 60 Ohio St. L.J. 99, 105 (1999) ("Something more than a
purely probabilistic inference of suspicion based on statistical likelihoods
must be present to justify a stop."); Lawrence Rosenthal, Probability, Probable
Cause, and the Law of Unintended Consequences, 87 Tex. L. Rev. See Also 63
(2009); Yin, supra note 224, at 158 (recognizing that businesses use forms of
yield management to predict future behavior from past activity).





n241.  Professor Christopher Slobogin has written insightfully about this issue.
See Christopher Slobogin, Privacy at Risk: The New Government Surveillance and
the Fourth Amendment 37-44 (2007); Christopher Slobogin, The World Without a
Fourth Amendment, 39 UCLA L. Rev. 1, 39-41 (1991).





n242.  Thompson, supra note 50, at 40 ("Linden Street, where, the statistics
reveal, there is a 2.06 percent chance of a crime happening today, and 3:1 odds
that a crime, should it occur, will be a home break-in versus an auto theft.").





n243.  Ferguson, supra note 71, at 218-19.





n244.  See, e.g., Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000); United States
v. Wright, 582 F.3d 199, 222-23 (1st Cir. 2009) (Lipez, J., dissenting); United
States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53 (1st Cir. 2007); United States v. Baskin, 401
F.3d 788, 793 (7th Cir. 2005); United States v. Vargas, 369 F.3d 98, 101 (2d
Cir. 2004); Bolton v. Taylor, 367 F.3d 5, 8-9 (1st Cir. 2004); United States v.
Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 216 (3d Cir. 2004); United States v. Moore, 235 F.3d 700,
703-04 (1st Cir. 2000); United States v. Jordan, 232 F.3d 447, 448-49 (5th Cir.
2000); United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir. 2000) (en
banc) (Kozinski, J., concurring).





n245.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124.





n246.  Id. ("Accordingly, we have previously noted the fact that the stop
occurred in a "high crime area' among the relevant contextual considerations in
a Terry analysis." (citing Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144, 147-48
(1972))); Williams, 407 U.S. at 147-48 ("While properly investigating the
activity of a person who was reported to be carrying narcotics and a concealed
weapon and who was sitting alone in a car in a high-crime area at 2:15 in the
morning, Sgt. Connolly had ample reason to fear for his safety."); Debra Meek
Nelson, Illinois v. Wardlow: A Single Factor Totality, 2001 Utah L. Rev. 509,
510.





n247.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-25.





n248.  Id. at 121-22.





n249.  Id. at 137 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n250.  Id. at 122 (majority opinion).





n251.  Id. at 124-25.





n252.  People v. Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d 65, 67 (Ill. App. Ct. 1997) ("[Officer
Nolan's] testimony indicates only that the officers were headed somewhere in the
general area. There was no evidence that the officers were investigating the
specific area where defendant had been standing or that any of the police cars
had stopped at that location or that defendant had any basis for believing that
police were interested in his activity. Officer Nolan testified that he was
"caravaning' down West Van Buren when he noticed defendant. He did not testify
that the officers were targeting 4035 West Van Buren because it was known to be
a location where drugs were sold."), aff'd, 701 N.E.2d 484 (Ill. 1998), rev'd,
528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n253.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119; see also id. at 139 (Stevens, J., concurring in
part and dissenting in part) ("The State, along with the majority of the Court,
relies ... on the assumption that this flight occurred in a high crime area.").





n254.  Id. at 137 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n255.  Id. at 137 n.15.





n256.  Or, in the alternative, it reveals that, contrary to its stated
reasoning, the Court accepts that unprovoked flight alone may give rise to
reasonable suspicion. See id. at 124 (majority opinion). As can be seen in the
dissent in Pennsylvania v. Dunlap, two members of the Court clearly believe that
particularized prediction may rise to the level of reasonable suspicion, if not
probable cause. See 129 S. Ct. 448, 448 (2008) (Roberts, C.J., dissenting),
denying cert. to 941 A.2d. 671 (Pa. 2007).





n257.  A Westlaw search of the terms "high crime area" and "reasonable
suspicion" after 2000 returns over two thousand results.





n258.  Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 70, at 1607-18 (collecting cases).





n259.  David A. Harris, Factors for Reasonable Suspicion: When Black and Poor
Means Stopped and Frisked, 69 Ind. L.J. 659, 677-78 (1994); Lenese C. Herbert,
Can't You See What I'm Saying? Making Expressive Conduct a Crime in High-Crime
Areas, 9 Geo. J. on Poverty L. & Pol'y 135, 135-38 (2002); Johnson, Race and the
Decision, supra note 207, at 255-56; Raymond, supra note 240, at 116-24; Amy D.
Ronner, Fleeing While Black: The Fourth Amendment Apartheid, 32 Colum. Hum. Rts.
L. Rev. 383, 384-85 (2001); Christopher Slobogin, The Poverty Exception to the
Fourth Amendment, 55 Fla. L. Rev. 391, 405 (2003); Mia Carpiniello, Note,
Striking a Sincere Balance: A Reasonable Black Person Standard for "Location
Plus Evasion" Terry Stops, 6 Mich. J. Race & L. 355, 358 (2001).





n260.  See, e.g., Harris, supra note 259, at 677-78.





n261.  See, e.g., id.





n262.  E.g., Ferguson, supra note 71, at 223-25.





n263.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 137 n.15 (2000) (Stevens, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n264.  United States v. Black, 525 F.3d 359, 367 (4th Cir. 2008) (Gregory, J.,
dissenting); United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53 (1st Cir. 2007); United
States v. Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 216-18 (3d Cir. 2004); id. at 218-19 (Smith, J.,
concurring); United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir.
2000) (en banc) (Kozinski, J., concurring).





n265.  See supra text accompanying notes 40-44 for a discussion of the LAPD
model of predictive policing.





n266.  The Wardlow case does cut against this need for particularity, as there
was little particularized information about Mr. Wardlow before officers arrived
on the scene. See supra text accompanying note 253.





n267.  William J. Mertens, The Fourth Amendment and the Control of Police
Discretion, 17 U. Mich. J. L. Reform 551, 594-95 (1984) ("The police must be
able to justify singling out from the rest of humanity (or at least from the
rest of the people in the general area) the particular individual whom they have
stopped as somehow meriting this special attention."); Taslitz, supra note 230,
at 14-15.





n268.  It is important to emphasize the newness of the technologies. Many of the
tests are in their initial phases, and no claim of success has yet to have been
made. See supra text accompanying notes 103-04.





n269.  This has happened in other areas in which new technologies challenge
Fourth Amendment principles.





n270.  The analysis in this section focuses on a particular type of informant
tip. Some informants report past facts that a police officer can interpret to
predict future crime. But some informants, like those in Gates, White, and
Draper, focus on future actions of suspects. Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 327
(1990); Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 225 (1983); Draper v. United States,
358 U.S. 307, 309 (1959). The facts presented are genuine predictions that a
certain action will happen at a certain time. It is this subset of informant
tips that is the focus of this analysis.





n271.  See supra Part II.





n272.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 272 (2000) (recognizing that informant
tips must not only relate to a particular individual, but also an "assertion of
illegality" in the conduct of that individual).





n273.  Reasonable suspicion "requires that a tip be reliable in its assertion of
illegality, not just in its tendency to identify a determinate person." Id.





n274.  See White, 496 U.S. at 327-32 (emphasizing that the tip not only
contained a number of details at the time, but detailed predictions of future
activity as well).





n275.  See J.L., 529 U.S. at 272 (emphasizing that to support reasonable
suspicion the tip should not merely identify a person but a crime as well).





n276.  United States v. Reaves, 512 F.3d 123, 126 (4th Cir. 2008) ("When the
police rely on an anonymous tip to support reasonable suspicion, the tip "must
be accompanied by some corroborative elements that establish [its]
reliability.'" (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Perkins, 363
F.3d 317, 323 (4th Cir. 2004))).





n277.  See, e.g., United States v. Griffin, 589 F.3d 148, 150 (4th Cir. 2009)
("The Value-Lodge Motel in Charlotte, North Carolina, was well known to officers
of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department as a location for violent crime
and drug trafficking."); United States v. DeJear, 552 F.3d 1196, 1198 (10th Cir.
2009) ("According to the officers, that house was at an intersection that had a
history of criminal activity."); United States v. Clarkson, 551 F.3d 1196,
1201-02 (10th Cir. 2009) (including characteristics of an area, such as being
known for high crime, as factors for reasonable suspicion); United States v.
Pearce, 531 F.3d 374, 377 (6th Cir. 2008) (holding that police officers who were
patrolling the streets around the Mount Carmel Deli, an area known for narcotics
trafficking, had reasonable suspicion to justify an investigatory search).





n278.  See Pennsylvania v. Dunlap, 129 S. Ct. 448, 448 (2008) (Roberts, C.J.,
dissenting) (arguing that an experienced police officer's generalized knowledge
that drug activity was likely in an area should have been enough for probable
cause), denying cert. to 941 A.2d. 671 (Pa. 2007).





n279.  This is analytically distinct from a high crime area (discussed in the
next section) because the information is about a particular crime that may or
may not be located in an established high crime area. See supra Part II.C.





n280.  Going back to reasonable suspicion first principles, assuming a
well-functioning predictive system that accurately collects, records, and
analyzes crime data, the question is how to evaluate this computer informant's
"veracity," "reliability," and "basis of knowledge." Alabama v. White, 496 U.S.
325, 328-30 (1990). Veracity can be quickly disposed of as the computer
algorithm presents none of the truth-related concerns that arise with a human
informant. The computer computes what it computes, neither being true nor false.
The basis of knowledge element of the analysis is important, but turns on more
foundational concerns of where the data comes from and how it is collected and
sorted. These concerns will be addressed in the next Part. Generally speaking,
however, veracity and basis of knowledge are not serious concerns with computer
programs.





n281.  See, e.g., White, 496 U.S. at 330 (emphasizing how the totality of
circumstances should be factored in when making a determination of reasonable
suspicion).





n282.  Id.





n283.  Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491 (1983) (plurality opinion) (allowing
police to rely on a drug courier profile).





n284.  See supra notes 209-13.





n285.  Johnson, Race and the Decision, supra note 207, at 217-18 ("Although the
aim in selecting facts to justify probable cause or reasonable suspicion must be
objective prediction, practicality tempers the precision of the prediction
required... . The variety of "suspicious' facts or circumstances police may
witness is nearly infinite, but most fall into one of four general categories.
The simplest factor is conduct resembling a crime or necessary preparation for
that crime. A more subtle factor that attracts police attention is conduct that
appears to reflect consciousness of guilt. In addition, characteristics of the
actor may either legitimate observed conduct or render it more suspect. Finally,
the environment in which the actor is observed may aid in the interpretation of
his conduct."); Slobogin, supra note 241, at 39-41.





n286.  See Lerner, supra note 230, at 437-39; Taslitz, supra note 230, at 37,
58.





n287.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 241 (1983).





n288.  See supra Part II.C.





n289.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000) (citing Adams v. Williams,
407 U.S. 143, 144, 147-48 (1972)); e.g., United States v. DeJear, 552 F.3d 1196,
1200-01 (10th Cir. 2009); United States v. Clarkson, 551 F.3d 1196, 1201-02
(10th Cir. 2009); United States v. Pearce, 531 F.3d 374, 383 (6th Cir. 2008);
cf. Shelton v. United States, 929 A.2d 420, 424-26 (D.C. 2007) (distinguishing a
long line of cases justifying Fourth Amendment seizures based on hand-to-hand
transactions because the observed activity did not take place in a high crime
area).





n290.  Thompson, supra note 50, at 38, 40 (describing the 500-by-500 foot
target).





n291.  The Supreme Court has never defined a high crime area, but in Wardlow an
area large in size without any particularized crime data was allowed to
constitute a high crime area. 528 U.S. at 121, 124.





n292.  But see United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir.
2000) (en banc) (Kozinski, J., concurring) ("Just as a man with a hammer sees
every problem as a nail, so a man with a badge may see every corner of his beat
as a high crime area. Police are trained to detect criminal activity and they
look at the world with suspicious eyes. This is a good thing, because we rely on
this suspicion to keep us safe from those who would harm us. But to rely on
every cop's repertoire of war stories to determine what is a "high crime area' -
and on that basis to treat otherwise innocuous behavior as grounds for
reasonable suspicion - strikes me as an invitation to trouble." (citation
omitted)).





n293.  United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53-54 (1st Cir. 2007) (examining
"the nexus between the type of crime most prevalent or common in the area and
the type of crime suspected in the instant case").





n294.  Again, as discussed earlier, the near repeat theories have a quick decay
that makes the timeliness of the information very important. See supra notes
129-30 and accompanying text.





n295.  See, e.g., Harris, supra note 259, at 660; Raymond, supra note 240, at
100; Slobogin, supra note 259, at 405.





n296.  See, e.g., David A. Harris, Particularized Suspicion, Categorical
Judgments: Supreme Court Rhetoric Versus Lower Court Reality Under Terry v.
Ohio, 72 St. John's L. Rev. 975, 1022 (1998); Lewis R. Katz, Terry v. Ohio at
Thirty-Five: A Revisionist View, 74 Miss. L.J. 423, 493 (2004).





n297.  See Johnson v. United States, 333 U.S. 10, 13-14 (1948) ("The point of
the Fourth Amendment, which often is not grasped by zealous officers, is not
that it denies law enforcement the support of the usual inferences which
reasonable men draw from evidence. Its protection consists in requiring that
those inferences be drawn by a neutral and detached magistrate instead of being
judged by the officer engaged in the often competitive enterprise of ferreting
out crime.").





n298.  See, e.g., Mohler et al., supra note 48, at 104; Short et al., supra note
100, at 3965.





n299.  See supra Part I.





n300.  These types of law enforcement responses would address crime increases
under both a flag theory and boost theory. See supra notes 93-98.





n301.  See supra notes 129-30 and accompanying text.





n302.  Thompson, supra note 50, at 97 ("Unlike Santa Cruz, the L.A. experiment
will be run like a clinical trial, with control areas where crime is predicted
and tracked but predictive policing methods are not introduced.").





n303.  Baxter, supra note 25 ("George Mohler, a Santa Clara University assistant
math professor, produced the algorithm for Santa Cruz police after analyzing
years worth of data. He said the 4 percent decline in burglaries in the first
six months is not conclusive evidence that it works. "You kind of have to take
those numbers with a grain of salt because there are other factors,' Mohler said
Friday. Variables such as the economy, the weather, new criminals in town and
even long-term demographic changes factor into crime figures, Mohler said. In a
more scientific experiment, Mohler has been working with Los Angeles police and
an anthropology professor at UCLA. That experiment has split the city into
districts. Predictive policing patrols are used in some areas and others remain
with traditional patrols.").





n304.  Rubin, supra note 2, at A17 ("Much of the work at UCLA and other
universities focuses on burglaries, because there are a lot of them and their
times and locations are easy to pin down. Building predictive tools capable of
addressing rarer and more complex crimes, such as homicides and rapes, will be
far more complex.").





n305.  United States v. Roch, 5 F.3d 894, 897-98 (5th Cir. 1993) ("In fact, the
surveillance failed to provide reasonable suspicion of any crime. The agents did
not see Roch commit a criminal offense, engage in any questionable behavior, or
break any traffic laws. The only activity the agents observed was a man and
woman leaving the motel parking lot in a[] white and orange pickup truck, and
driving to a filling station." (footnotes omitted)).





n306.  See Cope, supra note 65, at 193.





n307.  This, in turn, affects the quality of the reasonable suspicion analysis.
See Murray v. United States, 419 U.S. 942, 944 (1974) (Douglas, J., dissenting)
("But the transmission of the information in the form of a Los Angeles "police
report' is of no immediate analytical significance; the Los Angeles Department
merely served as a conduit between the searching officer and a still undisclosed
source. The fact that the searching officer received his information from
another police officer does not alter the usual Fourth Amendment inquiry."),
denying cert. to 492 F.2d 178 (9th Cir. 1973).





n308.  See Ferguson, supra note 71, at 225-27.





n309.  Chainey & Ratcliffe, supra note 26, at 65 ("Crime data recorded in police
information systems offer only a partial view of crime in society, and not all
crime reported to the police ends up being recorded as crime.").





n310.  See John Markovic & Christopher Stone, Vera Inst. of Justice, Crime
Mapping and the Policing of Democratic Societies 2 (2002) ("Even some
jurisdictions with sophisticated crime mapping programs choose not to map some
forms of domestic violence, crimes among juveniles, threats, defacing public
property, and other criminal offenses.").





n311.  Cf. Harries, supra note 26, at 98.





n312.  Ashby, supra note 52.





n313.  Rachael King, IBM Analytics Help Memphis Cops Get "Smart', Bloomberg
Businessweek (Dec. 5, 2011),
http://www.businessweek.com/technology/ibm-analytics-help-memphis-cops-get-smart
-12052011.html.





n314.  Amos Maki, Crimes Lurk in Police Memos, Com. Appeal (Memphis), Jan. 25,
2012, at A1; Mike Matthews, MPD Memos Predicted to Drastically Increase Crime
Stats, ABC24 (Jan. 25, 2012, 5:08 PM),
http://www.abc24.com/news/local/story/MPD-Memos-Expected-to-Drastically-Increase
-Crime/KkIIl2jHK0ya UtilCB4fzg.cspx ("Memphis Police Director Toney Armstrong
confirmed the discovery of 79,000 memos dating back to 2006. MPD's top cop said
many of those memos could be crimes that should have been reported... . Now,
with a full review of those 79,000 memos, those crime stats will probably go way
up.").





n315.  Maki, supra note 314, at A1 ("The department picked a sampling of 20,000
memos from 2010 and found what Armstrong described as a high error rate. "We
found that one out of every 15 memos should have been upgraded to a report,' he
said. The discovery could cast doubt on the crime-reduction numbers the
department claimed under former police director Larry Godwin.").





n316.  Credit goes to Professor Steven Morrison for reminding me of this
important point.





n317.  See supra Part I.





n318.  For example, Professor George Mohler, a math professor, modeled his
predictive policing software on studies done on earthquakes with seismic
aftershocks and Professor P. Jeffrey Brantingham is an anthropologist. See
Rubin, supra note 2, at A1.





n319.  See, e.g., King, supra note 313. Several other companies have designed
and are selling predictive computer systems to law enforcement.





n320.  See supra Part I.





n321.  As of yet, these oversight structures have not been developed.





n322.  See supra text accompanying notes 40-57.





n323.  See Ferguson, supra note 71, at 196 n.107.





n324.  See Malinowski E-mail, supra note 42 ("We ... stress that this is a
place-based strategy that develops and plots forecasts based on a three year
look at crime patterns and that arrests are not part of the equation. We felt
this was important because we heard from some community members that they were
concerned about the program creating a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy from
under which a community could not recover. For instance if the police deploy to
an area due to a forecast based on crime AND arrests and do, in fact, make
additional arrests that go back into the model, it could skew further
forecasting. In our model, we would hope to deploy the officers based on crime
only and then hopefully deny the criminal the opportunity to commit the crime in
the first place. We don't want to necessarily be tied up taking a report or
making an arrest if we could just as easily be in the right place at the right
time and deter the criminal from carrying out their plans to commit a property
crime.").





n325.  See United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 49 (1st Cir. 2007). In United
States v. Wright, a defendant introduced city crime statistics against the
prosecution in an attempt to prove that the area was not in fact a high crime
area as defined by the city's own standards. Id.





n326.  Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 70, at 1608-18 (demonstrating uncertainty
in both federal and state courts regarding the standard for what constitutes a
"high crime area").





n327.  See supra Part I.





n328.  See Thompson, supra note 50, at 40.





n329.  Eli B. Silverman, With a Hunch and a Punch, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 133,
144-45 (2007); see also John Douglass, Tactical Deployment: The Next Great
Paradigm Shift in Law Enforcement?, Geography & Pub. Safety, Jan. 2009, at 6, 7
n.1. See generally James J. Willis et al., Police Found., Compstat in Practice:
An In-Depth Analysis of Three Cities 2 n.1 (2003) (describing the origins of the
name COMPSTAT).





n330.  Willis et al., supra note 329, at 12, 15.





n331.  See Graham Rayman, The NYPD Police Tapes: Inside Bed-Stuy's 81st
Precinct, Village Voice, May 5, 2010, at 12, 14, 15 (describing the pressure on
police departments to report certain numbers).





n332.  See Editorial, The Truth Behind Stop-and-Frisk, N.Y. Times, Sept. 3,
2011, at A26.





n333.  I. Bennett Capers, Rethinking the Fourth Amendment: Race, Citizenship,
and the Equality Principle, 46 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 1, 16, 17 & n.120 (2011)
("Between January 1, 2006, and September 30, 2007, the New York City Police
Department completed stop-and-frisk forms for 867,617 individuals. Of that
number, 453,042 were black, and another 30% were Hispanic, numbers grossly
disproportionate to their representation in the general public. Only one in
every 21.5 blacks stopped was found to be engaged in activity warranting arrest.
Put another way, of the 453,042 stop-and-frisk forms police officers completed
for black suspects, approximately 402,943 were for stopping and frisking blacks
not engaged in unlawful activity warranting arrest."); Editorial, supra note
332, at A26.





n334.  Capers, supra note 333, at 17 n.120; Editorial, supra note 332, at A26.





n335.  John D. Castiglione, Human Dignity Under the Fourth Amendment, 2008 Wis.
L. Rev. 655, 659-61 (describing how courts balance the government's interests
against the invasion of privacy); Harris, supra note 207, at 290-91 (describing
the irony that the victims of crimes and those who need the most protection are
most likely to be stopped during illegal searches); Andrew E. Taslitz, Respect
and the Fourth Amendment, 94 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 15, 23-24 (2003)
(detailing illegal seizure of property and home invasions and the psychological
effect on victims); see Tracey Maclin, "Black and Blue Encounters" - Some
Preliminary Thoughts About Fourth Amendment Seizures: Should Race Matter?, 26
Val. U. L. Rev. 243, 255 (1991).





n336.  Harris, supra note 207, at 290-91 ("The right to be free from illegal
searches and seizures belongs not just to the guilty, but to everyone.").





n337.  Of course, some might argue that this weight is given to officers anyway
without the additional weight of a computer algorithm.


                               2 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

THE SCI-FI SOLUTION TO REAL CRIME;
Predicting where felons might strike is being made easier with a computer
calculation. Guy Adams reports from Los Angeles

BYLINE: Guy Adams

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1448 words


Sergeant John Gomperz slows his black-and-white patrol vehicle to a crawl as he
enters the parking lot of one of the shopping malls that litter the Los Angeles
northern suburbs. For the next 15 minutes, he drives up and down, past
McDonald's, Taco Bell, and a row of fast-food outlets. Then he pauses at the
entrance of the electronics store Best Buy, and scans the horizon.

We're looking for people he considers "suspicious". These include lone,
predatory males; youths cruising around on bicycles; and anyone who happens to
be sporting gangland tattoos. "I'm trying to be highly visible," he explains.
"Just because we don't see them doesn't mean they can't see us."

Eventually, after smiling at a few shoppers, waving to a casual acquaintance,
and making a final lap of the car-park, Gomperz looks at his watch, winds up the
window, and drives off. Job done, he announces.

To a casual observer, it might seem a waste of a quarter of an hour of valuable
police time. But the way the sergeant sees things, the long, slow tour of a
seemingly normal parking lot is one of the most important things he's done all
day.

That's how things roll in the brave new world of computerised "predictive
policing", a hi-tech crime-busting technique which Gomperz is helping to pioneer
and which ,has the potential to revolutionise modern law enforcement.

The technique revolves around a single mathematical algorithm, developed by the
University of California, Los Angeles. This complex equation can in theory
predict, with pinpoint accuracy, where criminal offences are most likely to
happen on any given day. Though that sounds like the stuff of science-fiction
novels the principle is relatively straightforward. It mines several years'
crime statistics to tease out hidden patterns. Once identified, they are
projected into the future, to predict where cars might be stolen, or houses
burgled, on any given day.

The forecasts are startlingly specific, and that's where the policing comes in.
Each morning, Gomperz and his colleagues in the Foothill area of Los Angeles,
where the technology is being tested, are given maps identifying a handful of
"boxes" measuring 500ft x 500ft - the supposed crime hot-spots for that day. The
officers are instructed to visit them as often as time allows. Once inside the
"box", they make themselves as visible as possible. The shopping centre car-park
which Gomperz has just slowly criss-crossed is bang in the middle of one of that
day's boxes.

Computerised "predictive policing" is still in its infancy, but all the early
signs are that it has a startling effect. In the city of Santa Cruz, California,
where it was first trialled this summer, a 25 per cent drop in crime was
recorded. Meanwhile in Foothill, a 50sq mile portion of northern Los Angeles,
the number of non-violent crimes has dropped from around 50 a week to nearer 40,
in the eight weeks since trials began. So striking have the results been that
UCLA's system will this year be rolled out across Los Angeles, one of America's
largest police forces. And it could soon be crossing the Atlantic. On 23
January, Captain Sean Malinowski, a LAPD officer who helped to develop the
technology, will showcase it to delegates at the Defence Geospatial Intelligence
conference in London.

"Anecdotally it seems to work. From the data we're seeing, it stops crime
happening," Malinowski says, adding that an era of declining resources (the LAPD
currently has a paid overtime ban), predictive policing can be a particularly
valuable tool, since it isn't labour intensive. "If a suspect turns up, say, to
steal a car, and he sees a police officer, then maybe that's enough to stop him
committing a crime that day.

"Making arrests is still important. It keeps officers motivated. And in this
trial, it has certainly been happening, when officers are in their boxes. But
arresting people also takes up a huge amount of time. Booking one guy can take
up most of a shift. So if we can reduce crime without doing that, so much the
better." Malinowski struck on the idea for computerised predictive policing
several years ago, when he was asked to supply UCLA with crime data for a
research project. A bookish man, with an interest in academia, he began
attending lectures there, and soon learnt that it was theoretically possible to
use equations to model naturally occurring events such as animal population
growths, or migration patterns.

In conjunction with several UCLA academics, he decided to create an equation
which could model crime patterns. The algorithm they came up with uses three
pieces of information about each crime - the time, date and co-ordinates -
before teasing patterns out of the data.

Jeff Brantingham, a UCLA anthropologist who helped to develop it, says the
ongoing trial in Foothill is using a randomised control. On some days, the
co-ordinates of the boxes officers are asked to focus on are randomly generated;
on others, they use the algorithm. "Comparing crime on the days we use the
algorithm and the days we don't will give us a true gold-standard test as to
whether it really works," he says. "We are also trying to measure appropriate
dosage: how long an officer needs to spend in a box for it to be effective."

The concept of predictive policing is not without critics. Civil libertarians
are concerned it might lead to life mirroring the film Minority Report, which
starred Tom Cruise, in which police target people for crimes they might commit
at some undetermined point in the future.

It also has legal complications. Under the Fourth Amendment of the US
Constitution, police officers are forbidden from stopping a suspect without
"reasonable suspicion" that they are committing a crime. No one yet knows
whether simply being in a geographic box identified by a computer programme
represents reasonable suspicion.

"What happens if officers turn up at a 500ft x 500ft area, on the look out for
burglaries, see a guy with a black bag, search him and find it contains stolen
goods?" wonders Andrew Ferguson, an assistant professor of Law at the University
of the District of Colombia. "If that case goes to court, there will be the
question of whether it was reasonable for the officer to suspect he was
committing a crime."

If computerised predictive policing catches on, Ferguson expects a test case
eventually to work its way up to the US Supreme Court. In the meantime, he
expects noisy kickback from civil rights groups. "That a computer can
effectively curtail the Fourth Amendment rights of individuals in certain areas
would be particularly troubling to the civil liberties lobby," he says.

"There will also be concerns that if police wanted to target certain areas, or
demographics, then they could simply tweak the algorithm to ensure officers
visit certain neighbourhoods."

Back on the streets of Foothill, Sergeant Gomperz has no such concerns. He
drives to another 500ft square box - this time at a park named after Ritchie
Valens, the Mexican-American songwriter who wrote "La Bamba" and grew up
locally. As we pull up next to a children's playground, a young man, with
tattoos, cropped hair and a menacing pit-bull terrier catches sight of the
patrol car. Seconds later, he turns around, and hastily disappears from the
scene.

"Maybe he's going home to his mother. Maybe he doesn't have a licence for that
dog. Maybe something way more sinister is going on," says Gomperz. "All I know
is that he was here. He's seen us, and he's moving on. When I see that, I think
maybe that's stopped him committing a crime. And that makes me think that this
predictive policing thing really works."

ALGORITHMS

FORMULAE FOR SUCCESS

So what exactly is an algorithm? You could define it as a step-by-step
problem-solving procedure, especially an established, recursive computational
procedure for solving a problem in a finite number of steps. Or, to put it more
simply, it's like a mathematical recipe, a set formula for finding your way
through data.

Humble long division is an example of an algorithm that almost everybody would
recognise. At the other end of the spectrum are the thousand character-long
codes used for automated trades in the financial markets or the series of
complex instructions that make up computer programs.

The man believed to have coined the term is the ninth-century Persian
mathematician, Mohamed ibn-Musa al-Khwarizmi, who is also credited with giving
us the word algebra, which like algorithm, derives from the Latin version of his
name, Algoritmi.

Algorithms are put to good use in the 2011 film Moneyball, which stars Brad Pitt
as a baseball coach who uses computer-generated analysis to pick a series of
undervalued players who are gifted but affordable.

PORTIA WALKER

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 11, 2012
                                 First Edition

Real-life 'Minority Report' stops crime before it happens;
Computer profiling allows LAPD cops to target areas where criminals may operate.
Guy Adams reports.

BYLINE: Guy Adams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1183 words


Sergeant John Gomperz slows his black-and-white patrol vehicle to a crawl as he
enters the parking lot of one of the shopping malls that litter the northern
suburbs of Los Angeles. For the next 15 minutes, he drives up and down, past
McDonald's, Taco Bell and a row of other fast-food outlets. Then he pauses at
the entrance of the electronics store Best Buy and scans the horizon. We're
looking for people he considers "suspicious". These include lone, predatory
males, youths cruising around on bicycles and anyone who happens to be sporting
gangland tattoos. "I'm trying to be highly visible," he explains. "Just because
we don't see them doesn't mean that they can't see us."

Eventually, after smiling at a few shoppers, waving to a casual acquaintance and
making a final lap of the car park, Gomperz looks at his watch, winds up the
window and drives off.

"Job done," he announces.

To a casual observer, it might seem a waste of a quarter of an hour of valuable
police time. But the way the sergeant sees things, the long, slow tour of a
seemingly normal parking lot is one of the most important things he's done all
day. That's how things roll in the brave new world of computerised "predictive
policing", a hi-tech crimebusting technique which Gomperz is helping to pioneer
and which has the potential to revolutionise modern law enforcement.

The technique revolves around a single mathematical algorithm, developed by the
University of California, Los Angeles.

This complex equation can in theory predict, with pinpoint accuracy, where
criminal offences are most likely to happen on any given day.

Though that sounds like the stuff of science fiction, the principle is
relatively straightforward. It mines several years' crime statistics to tease
out hidden patterns. Once identified, they are projected into the future, to
predict where cars might be stolen, or houses burgled, on any given day.

The forecasts are startlingly specific and that's where the policing comes in.
Each morning, Gomperz and his colleagues in the Foothill area of Los Angeles,
where the technology is being tested, are given maps showing "boxes" measuring
500ft x 500ft - the supposed crime hot-spots for that day.

The officers are instructed to visit them as often as time allows. Once inside
the "box", they make themselves as visible as possible. The shopping centre car
park which Gomperz has just slowly criss-crossed is bang in the middle of one of
that day's boxes.

Computerised "predictive policing" is still in its infancy, but all the early
signs are that it has a startling effect.

In the city of Santa Cruz, California, where it was first trialled this summer,
a 25 per cent drop in crime was recorded.

Meanwhile in Foothill, a 50 square mile portion of northern LA, the number of
non-violent crimes has dropped from around 50 a week to nearer 40, in the eight
weeks since trials began.

So striking have the results been that UCLA's system will this year be rolledout
across Los Angeles, one of America's largest police forces. And it could soon be
crossing the Atlantic. On 23 January, Captain Sean Malinowski, an LAPD officer
who helped to develop the technology, will showcase it to delegates at the
Defence Geospatial Intelligence conference in London.

"Anecdotally it seems to work. From the data we're seeing, it stops crime
happening," Malinowski says, adding that in an era of declining resources (the
LAPD currently has a paid overtime ban), predictive policing can be a valuable
tool. "If a suspect turns up, say, to steal a car, and he sees a police officer,
then maybe that's enough to stop him committing a crime that day. Making arrests
is still important. It keeps officers motivated. And in this trial, it has
certainly been happening, when officers are in their boxes. But arresting people
also takes up a huge amount of time... So if we can reduce crime without doing
that, so much the better." Malinowski struck on the idea for computerised
predictive policing several years ago, when he was asked to supply UCLA with
crime data for a research project. A bookish man, with an interest in academia,
he began attending lectures there and soon learnt that it was theoretically
possible to use equations to model naturally occurring events such as animal
population growths, or migration patterns.

In conjunction with UCLA academics, he decided to create an equation which could
model crime patterns. The algorithm they came up with uses three pieces of
information about each crime - the time, date and co-ordinates - be-fore teasing
patterns out of the data. Jeff Brantingham, a UCLA anthropologist who helped to
develop it, says the ongoing trial in Foothill is using a randomised control. On
some days, the coordinates of the boxes officers are asked to focus on are
randomly generated; on others, they use the algorithm. "Comparing crime on the
days we use the algorithm and the days we don't will give us a true
gold-standard test as to whether it really works," he says. "We are also trying
to measure appropriate dosage: how long an officer needs to spend in a box for
it to be effective."

The technology is not without critics.

Civil libertarians are concerned it might lead to life mirroring the Tom Cruise
film Minority Report, in which police target people for crimes which they might
commit at some point in the future.

It also has legal complications. Under the Fourth Amendment of the US
Constitution, police officers are forbidden from stopping a suspect without
"reasonable suspicion" that they are committing a crime. No one yet knows
whether simply being in a geographic box identified by a computer programme
passes the test. "What happens if officers turn up at a 500ft x 500ft area, on
the lookout for burglaries, see a guy with a black bag, search him and find it
contains stolen goods?" wonders Andrew Ferguson, an assistant professor of Law
at the University of the District of Colombia.

"If that case goes to court, there will be the question of whether it was
reasonable for the officer to suspect he was committing a crime."

If computerised predictive policing catches on, Ferguson expects a test case
eventually to work its way up to the US Supreme Court. In the meantime, he
expects a noisy kickback from civil rights groups.

Back on the streets of Foothill, Sergeant Gomperz has no such concerns.

He drives to another 500ft square box - this time at a park named after Ritchie
Valens, the Mexican-American songwriter. As we pull up next to a children's
playground, a young man, with tattoos, cropped hair and a menacing pit-bull
terrier catches sight of the patrol car. Seconds later, he turns around and
hastily disappears from the scene.

"Maybe he's going home to his mother.

Maybe he doesn't have a licence for that dog. Maybe something way more sinister
is going on," says Gomperz.

"All I know is that he was here. He's seen us and he's moving on. When I see
that, I think maybe that's stopped him committing a crime. And that makes me
think that this predictive policing thing really works."

Arresting people takes time. If we can cut crime without doing this, so much the
better

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday

High-tech formula gets cops there before criminals

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General

LENGTH: 800 words


Sergeant John Gomperz slows his black-and-white patrol vehicle to a crawl as he
enters the parking lot of one of the shopping malls that litter the Los Angeles
northern suburbs. For the next 15 minutes, he drives up and down, past
McDonald"s and Taco Bell. Then he pauses at the entrance of the electronics
store Best Buy, and scans the horizon.

He"s looking for people he considers "suspicious". These include lone males,
youths cruising around on bicycles and anyone with gangland tattoos.

"I"m trying to be highly visible," he explains. "Just because we don"t see them
doesn"t mean they can"t see us."

Eventually, after smiling at a few shoppers, waving to a casual acquaintance and
making a final lap of the carpark, Gomperz looks at his watch, winds up the
window and drives off. Job done, he announces.

It might seem a waste of a quarter of an hour of valuable police time. But the
way the sergeant sees things, the slow tour of a seemingly normal parking lot is
one of the most important things he"s done all day.

That"s how it is in the new world of computerised "predictive policing", a
high-tech crime-busting technique which Gomperz is helping to pioneer and which
could revolutionise modern law enforcement.

The technique is based on a single mathematical algorithm, developed by the
University of California, Los Angeles.

This complex equation can in theory predict, with pinpoint accuracy, where
criminal offences are most likely to happen on any given day.

Though that sounds like the stuff of science-fiction novels, the principle is
straightforward.

The formula mines several years" crime statistics to reveal underlying patterns.
These are projected into the future to predict where cars might be stolen, or
houses burgled.

The forecasts are startlingly specific, and that"s where the policing comes in.
Each morning, Gomperz and his colleagues in the Foothill area of northern Los
Angeles, where the technology is being tested, are given maps identifying a
handful of 125sq m "boxes" - the supposed crime hot-spots for that day.

The officers are instructed to visit them as often as time allows. Once inside
the "box", they make themselves as visible as possible.

Computerised "predictive policing" is still in its infancy, but all the early
signs are that it has a startling effect. In the city of Santa Cruz, California,
where it was first tested last year, a 25 per cent drop in crime was recorded.

In Foothill, the number of non-violent crimes has dropped from about 50 a week
to nearer 40 in the eight weeks since trials began. So striking have the results
been that UCLA"s system will this year be introduced throughout Los Angeles.

And it could soon be crossing the Atlantic. On January 23, Captain Sean
Malinowski, an LAPD officer who helped develop the technology, will demonstrate
it to delegates at the Defence Geospatial Intelligence conference in London.

"From the data we"re seeing, it stops crime happening," Malinowski says, adding
that in an era of declining resources, predictive policing can be a particularly
valuable tool, since it isn"t labour intensive.

"If a suspect turns up, say, to steal a car, and he sees a police officer, then
maybe that"s enough to stop him committing a crime that day.

"Making arrests is still important. It keeps officers motivated. And in this
trial it has certainly been happening.

"But arresting people also takes up a huge amount of time. Booking one guy can
take up most of a shift. So if we can reduce crime without doing that, so much
the better."

Malinowski struck on the idea for computerised predictive policing several years
ago, when he was asked to supply UCLA with crime data for a research project.

In conjunction with UCLA academics, he decided to create an equation which could
model crime patterns. The algorithm they came up with uses three pieces of
information about each crime - the time, date and location.

Jeff Brantingham, a UCLA anthropologist who helped to develop it, says the trial
in Foothill is using a randomised control. On some days, the boxes officers are
asked to focus on are randomly generated; on others, they use the algorithm.

"Comparing crime on the days we use the algorithm and the days we don"t will
give us a true gold-standard test as to whether it really works."

The concept of predictive policing is not without critics. Civil libertarians
are concerned it might lead to life mirroring the Tom Cruise film Minority
Report, in which police target people for crimes they might commit in the
future.

It also has legal complications. Under the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution,
police are forbidden to stop a suspect without "reasonable suspicion" that they
are committing a crime. No one yet knows if being in a geographic box identified
by a computer programme represents reasonable suspicion.

Independent

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                             Government Technology

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             October 8, 2012 Monday

Predictive Policing a Success in Santa Cruz, Calif.

BYLINE: Brian Heaton, Government Technology

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 657 words


Oct. 08--Burglaries are down in the iconic beach community of Santa Cruz,
Calif., and police are crediting the drop in crime to the use of predictive
policing technology.

The Santa Cruz Police Department compared crime statistics from the first six
months of 2012 to the same timeframe in 2011 when the advanced analytics and
prediction technology wasn't being used. Without adding more officers to the
streets or changing beats and shift times, the results were a 19 percent
reduction in property theft.

Zach Friend, press information officer and crime analyst for the Santa Cruz PD,
said the program's success really started being noticed a few months after the
department installed the system as a pilot project in July 2011. Crime data is
pumped into a database and a complex computer algorithm predicts hotspots around
the city where officers can expect illegal activity to occur.

Once officers got comfortable using data generated from the sophisticated
computer algorithm, crime started going down and some arrests were made because
of correct predictions.

For example, in August, an officer was out at 12:30 a.m. driving into a zone
that the predictive technology told him to check out. He noticed two people
attempting to steal a car and arrested them. Until alerted by the police, the
car's owner had no idea the vehicle had been tampered with.

"To me, that's the perfect example of the success of the program -- preventing
the crimes before they occur in the first place," Friend said.

Predictive policing technology is becoming widespread among local law
enforcement agencies in the U.S. Los Angeles and Chicago have been using crime
stats and analytic tools for a few years now. Other cities such as Rialto,
Calif., are just starting their own programs.

Initial Changes

The Santa Cruz PD bumped its predictive policing program from an experimental
phase to full operation in July 2012. In addition to property theft, the system
is now used to predict gang activity and street crimes for specialty units in
the department.

When officers in one of the specialty units access the system, they can check
off selections to run predictive analyses just in their specific area, without
the inclusion of property theft data. While statistics on the accuracy of these
predictions aren't available yet, Friend said the predictive technology has been
able to focus the efforts of those units even further.

In addition, the system is now automated. When the technology was initially
deployed, 10 maps featuring the predictive algorithm's crime hot spot findings
were manually generated by Friend on a daily basis. Now 15 maps are produced,
and supervisors log in to the system prior to briefings and print out a one-page
sheet that lists the predicted crime locations for the day.

The information can be accessed online by any officer and the data is refreshed
hourly, giving users almost real-time statistical views. Friend said data
generated by the system can be accessed by in-car computers and smartphones, but
the department hasn't upgraded its equipment yet so it's unable to accommodate
it.

Friend believes technology upgrades are inevitable, however.

"A lot of the younger officers that are coming up are very adept with technology
and have an expectation that the technology they use at home will be used ... on
the job," Friend said.

"I think [predictive technology] systems like this will be widely adopted,
especially by younger generations of officers that are very comfortable with
having data in their cars, having maps and the interactivity," he added.

While the predictive crime maps are useful, Friend said there aren't any plans
to share them with the public. Although the Santa Cruz PD has been using a
mobile app to share maps of overall crime, the department views the predictive
data as internal tactical information.

___ (c)2012 Government Technology Visit Government Technology at www.govtech.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121008-1GT-Predictive-Policing
-a-Success-in-Santa-Cruz-Calif-1008-20121008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GT


                                 Copyright 2012


                               6 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2012 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Sci-fi policing: Anticipating crimes before they are committed

BYLINE: Greg Risling

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES - Police are aiming to beat offenders to the scene of a crime by
using computers to predict where trouble might occur.

The Los Angeles Police Department is the largest agency to embrace an experiment
known as "predictive policing," which crunches data to determine where to send
officers to thwart would-be thieves.

Early successes could serve as a model for other cash-strapped law enforcement
agencies, but some legal observers are concerned that it could lead to stops and
searches that violate Fourth Amendment protections.

In the San Fernando Valley, where the program was launched late last year,
officers are seeing double-digit drops in burglaries and other property crimes.
The program has turned enough in-house skeptics into believers that there are
plans to roll it out citywide by next summer.

"We have prevented hundreds and hundreds of people coming home and seeing their
homes robbed," Capt. Sean Malinowski said.

Crime mapping has long been a tool used to determine where the bad guys lurk.
The idea has evolved from colored pins placed on a map to identifying "hot
spots" via a computer database of past crimes and possible patterns.

Over the past decade, many large police departments, including Los Angeles and
New York City, have used CompStat, a system that tracks crime figures and
enables police to send extra officers to trouble spots.

The new program used by  the LAPD and police in the Northern California city of
Santa Cruz is more timely and precise, proponents said. Built on the same model
for predicting aftershocks following an earthquake, the software promises to
show officers what might be coming based on simple, constantly calibrated data -
location, time and type of crime.

The software generates prediction boxes - as small as 500 square feet - on a
patrol map. When officers have spare time, they are told to "go in the box."

The goal is not to boost the number of arrests, a common benchmark to reflect
crime reduction. Officers want to intercept a crime in progress or deter
would-be criminals.

"I want to disrupt an activity before an arrest is made," Malinowski said.

Jeff Brantingham, an anthropology professor at UCLA, said the data are derived
in part from criminal behaviors - repeat victimization and the notion that
criminals tend not to stray too far from areas they know best.

"If you are victimized today, the risk that you'll be a victim again goes way
up," said Brantingham, who co-founded a software company tapped by the LAPD for
its program.

So far, the program has been implemented in five LAPD divisions that cover 130
square miles and about 1.3 million people. In the valley's Foothill Division,
where more than half of the crimes committed are property-related, about 170
patrol officers are spending a total of about 70 hours a week working in the
boxes.

In one instance, a police captain questioned sending officers into a box that
was on the edge of his coverage area. Officers went out and didn't find
anything, but returned several nights later and found a man breaking a window.

The division leads the department in crime reduction, Malinowski said. Crimes
were down in the area 13 percent following the rollout, compared with a slight
uptick across the rest of the city, where the program wasn't being used.

"If you had told us a few years ago you could get an algorithm to perform the
same as a crime analyst, we would think you were crazy," Malinowski said. "Even
the most skeptical people are now coming up to me and saying, 'I think this is
working.'â[#x20ac][#x160]"

Other police departments across the nation are using similar approaches. IBM has
teamed up with police in Memphis and Charleston, S.C., to provide analysis.
Minneapolis police are breaking down crime statistics and factoring in
geographic locations to determine future crimes.

Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, an assistant professor of law at the University of the
District of Columbia, has written about predictive policing and how it may
involve Fourth Amendment protections from unlawful searches and seizures.

Ferguson said the trend is "a seductive idea" for law enforcement agencies that
carry a lot of power. He said that the LAPD has done a good job with the data,
but he's concerned that other departments could abuse the process with racial
profiling or stereotyping a neighborhood or an area.

"There are real pressures to expand this nationally and see it succeed,"
Ferguson said. "I think it's an important innovation. But like any innovation,
it's not foolproof, and looking closely at the data is important to ensure it
doesn't harm the civil liberties of the people living in those areas."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday

Predictive policing takes byte out of crime

BYLINE: AFP(AFP)

LENGTH: 994 words


Crime fighters have long used brains and brawn, but now a new kind of technology
known as "predictive policing" promises to make them more efficient.
A growing number of law enforcement agencies, in the US and elsewhere, have been
adopting software tools with predictive analytics, based on algorithms that aim
to predict crimes before they happen.


The concept sounds like something out of science fiction and the thriller
"Minority Report" based on a Philip K. Dick story.
Without some of the sci-fi gimmickry, police departments from Santa Cruz,
California, to Memphis, Tennessee, and law enforcement agencies from Poland to
Britain have adopted these new techniques.
The premise is simple: criminals follow patterns, and with software -- the same
kind that retailers like Wal-Mart and Amazon use to determine consumer
purchasing trends -- police can determine where the next crime will occur and
sometimes prevent it.
Colleen McCue, a behavioral scientist at GeoEye, a firm that works with US
Homeland Security and local law enforcement on predictive analytics, said
studying criminal behavior was not that different from examining other types of
behavior like shopping.
"People are creatures of habit," she said.
"When you go shopping you go to a place where they have the things you re
looking for... the criminal wants to go where he will be successful also."
She said the technology could help in cities where tight budgets were forcing
patrol reductions.
"When police departments are laying more sworn personnel, they can do more with
less," she said.
The key to success in predictive policing is getting as much data as possible to
determine patterns. This can be especially useful in property crimes like auto
theft and burglary, where patterns can be detected.
"You can build a model that factors in attributes like the time of year, whether
it is hot and humid or cold and snowy, if it is a payday when people are
carrying a lot of cash," says Mark Cleverly, who heads the IBM unit for
predictive crime analytics.
"It s not saying a crime will occur at a particular time and place, no one can
do that. But it can say you can expect a wave of vehicle thefts based one
everything we know."
IBM has worked with dozens of agencies such as London s Metropolitan Police, the
Polish National Police and a number of US and Canadian cities.
In Memphis, officials said serious crimes fell 30 percent and violent crimes
declined 15 percent since implementing predictive analytics in a program with
IBM and the University of Memphis in 2006.

The program known as CRUSH -- Criminal Reduction Utilizing Statistical History
-- targeted certain "hot spots" to allow police to deploy more efficiently.
John Williams, crime analysis manager for the city s police, said the system has
had a dramatic impact, allowing Memphis to get off the list of worst US cities
for crime.
"If the data is indicating a hot spot, we are able to immediately deploy
resources there. And in a lot of instances we are able to make quality arrests
because we re in the right area at the right time," he said.
Although beat officers can use their instincts for similar results, Williams
said the software could be far more precise, such as predicting burglaries in a
small geographic area between 10 pm and 2 am.
In one case, the software was able to help police break up a group that was
committing armed robberies on the city s Hispanic population.
"There were 84 robberies, but we had no idea it was so organized," Williams
said.
By crunching the numbers, police were able to pinpoint the zone and time of
likely holdups: "We caught a group of robbers in progress, we had leads on
additional robberies," he said.
Williams said police officials from as far away as Hong Kong, Rio de Janeiro and
Estonia have come to review the experience in Memphis.
In Los Angeles, another program developed by scientists at the University of
California-Los Angeles and Santa Clara University was tested in a single
precinct, and resulted in a 12 percent drop in crime while the rest of the city
saw a 0.2 percent increase.
That test and others led to the creation of a company called PredPol.
And Los Angeles will expand its use of the program under contract with PredPol,
said CEO Caleb Baskin.
Baskin said the system is based on a model from mathematician George Mohler
which "is very effective in predicting the time and location for crimes that
have not yet taken place."
PredPol had begun working with other cities in California and "we ve had
inquiries from a lot of places in the US and international locations," Baskin
said.
"The science that underlies the tool will work anywhere. The question is does
the agency maintain a database that we can plug into."
While use of such analytics generally wins plaudits for helping "smarter"
policing, it does raise concerns about Big Brother-like snooping.
Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, a law professor at the University of the District of
Columbia, said the use of technology could be positive but that it could lower
the threshold for constitutional protections on "unreasonable" searches.

"To stop you and frisk you and search you, a police officer needs reasonable
suspicion, so my question is how will this affect reasonable suspicion " he
said.
If the search is based on a computer algorithm, Ferguson said, and the case
comes to court, "How do you cross-examine a computer "
IBM s Cleverly said the technology can in many cases improve privacy.
"You can pinpoint the record of who has access to information, you have a solid
history of what s going on, so if someone is using the system for ill you have
an audit trail," he said.
As for "The Minority Report" and its predictive software, Cleverly said, "It was
a great film and great short story, but it s science fiction and will remain
science fiction. That s not what this is about."
(Follow timesofoman.com on Facebook and on Twitter for updates that you can
share with your friends.)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2012 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

'Predictive policing' takes byte out of crime

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 988 words


don't cut

Rob Lever

Agence France-Presse

Washington

Crime fighters have long used brains and brawn, but now a new kind of technology
known as "predictive policing" promises to make them more efficient.

A growing number of law enforcement agencies, in the US and elsewhere, have been
adopting software tools with predictive analytics, based on algorithms that aim
to predict crimes before they happen.

The concept sounds like something out of science fiction thriller "Minority
Report", the 2002 Steven Spielberg film based on a Philip K Dick story.

Without some of the sci-fi gimmickry, police departments from Santa Cruz,
California, to Memphis, Tennessee, and law enforcement agencies from Poland to
Britain have adopted these new techniques.

The premise is simple. Criminals follow patterns, and with software â[#x20ac]"
the same kind that retailers such as Wal-Mart and Amazon use to determine
consumer-purchasing trends â[#x20ac]" police can determine where the next crime
will occur and sometimes prevent it.

Colleen McCue, a behavioural scientist at GeoEye, a firm that works with US
Homeland Security and local law enforcement on predictive analytics, said
studying criminal behaviour was not that different from examining other types of
behaviour like shopping.

"People are creatures of habit," she said.

"When you go shopping you go to a place where they have the things you're
looking for... the criminal wants to go where he will be successful also."

She said the technology could help in cities where tight budgets were forcing
patrol reductions.

"When police departments are laying (off) more sworn personnel, they can do more
with less," she said.

The key to success in predictive policing is getting as much data as possible to
determine patterns. This can be especially useful in property crimes like auto
theft and burglary, where patterns can be detected.

"You can build a model that factors in attributes like the time of year, whether
it is hot and humid or cold and snowy, if it is a pay-day when people are
carrying a lot of cash," says Mark Cleverly, who is the head of the IBM unit for
predictive crime analytics.

"It's not saying a crime will occur at a particular time and place, no one can
do that. But it can say you can expect a wave of vehicle thefts based on
everything we know."

IBM has worked with dozens of agencies such as London's Metropolitan Police, the
Polish National Police and a number of US and Canadian cities.

In Memphis, officials said serious crimes fell 30 per cent and violent crimes
declined 15 per cent since implementing predictive analytics in a programme with
IBM and the University of Memphis in 2006.

The program known as CRUSH â[#x20ac]" Criminal Reduction Utilising Statistical
History â[#x20ac]"targeted certain "hot spots" to allow police to deploy more
efficiently.

John Williams, crime analysis manager for the city's police, said the system has
had a dramatic impact, allowing Memphis to get off the list of worst US cities
for crime.

'Quality arrests'

"If the data is indicating a hot spot, we are able to immediately deploy
resources there. And in a lot of instances we are able to make quality arrests
because we're in the right area at the right time," he said.

Although beat officers can use their instincts for similar results, Williams
said the software could be far more precise, such as predicting burglaries in a
small geographic area between the hours of 10pm and 2am.

In one case, the software was able to help police break up a group that was
committing armed robberies on the city's Hispanic population.

"There were 84 robberies, but we had no idea it was so organised," Williams
said.

By crunching the numbers, police were able to pinpoint the zone and time of
likely hold-ups. "We caught a group of robbers in progress, we had leads on
additional robberies," he said.

Williams said police officials from as far away as Hong Kong, Rio de Janeiro and
Estonia have come to review the experience in Memphis.

In Los Angeles, another program developed by scientists at the University of
California-Los Angeles and Santa Clara University was tested in a single
precinct.

The result was a 12-per-cent drop in crime while the rest of the city saw a
0.2-per-cent increase.

That test and others led to the creation of a company called PredPol.

And Los Angeles will expand its use of the programme under contract with
PredPol, said CEO Caleb Baskin.

Baskin said the system is based on a model from mathematician George Mohler
which "is very effective in predicting the time and location for crimes that
have not yet taken place".

PredPol had begun working with other cities in California and "we've had
inquiries from a lot of places in the US and international locations", Baskin
said.

"The science that underlies the tool will work anywhere. The question is does
the agency maintain a database that we can plug into."

While use of such analytics generally wins plaudits for helping "smarter"
policing, it does raise concerns about Big Brother-like snooping.

Andrew Ferguson, a law professor at the University of the District of Columbia,
said the use of technology could be positive but that it could lower the
threshold for constitutional protections on "unreasonable" searches.

"To stop you and frisk you and search you, a police officer needs reasonable
suspicion, so my question is how will this affect reasonable suspicion?" he
said.

If the search is based on a computer algorithm, Ferguson said, and the case
comes to court, "How do you cross-examine a computer?"

IBM's Cleverly said the technology can in many cases improve privacy.

"You can pinpoint the record of who has access to information, you have a solid
history of what's going on, so if someone is using the system for ill you have
an audit trail," he said.

As for "Minority Report" and its predictive software, Cleverly said, "It was a
great film and great short story, but it's science fiction and will remain
science fiction. That's not what this is about."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

USC Gets New Safety Measures in Wake of Student Slayings

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


April 26--EXPOSITION PARK, Calif. -- Police and USC officials have announced
additional safety measures in the wake of the shooting deaths of two graduate
students.

International students Ying Wu and Ming Qu, both 23, were gunned down about a
mile from campus in the early morning hours of April 11.

Then, exactly a week later, A USC Department of Public Safety officer shot and
wounded a suspect near fraternity row, minutes after witnesses say he robbed
four students at gunpoint.

L.A. Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa joined LAPD Chief Charlie Beck and USC President
C.L. Max Nikias at a news conference Tuesday morning to discuss security
concerns.

The university is working alongside the LAPD and the city to improve safety for
faculty and students.

USC will increase the number of public safety patrol cars and officers in the
neighborhoods near campus.

It has also invested in video cameras, license plate recognition cameras and
"security ambassadors" to patrol the streets bordering the campus.

One of those ambassadors will cover the popular route from fraternity row on
28th street to the 901 Bar and Grill on Figueroa Street.

Additionally, the university plans to will provide new websites and orientation
sessions to teach students how to stay safe.

USC is also working with the LAPD and the city to trim trees and brighten street
lights.

The LAPD has committed additional patrol cars and has agreed to increase its
data sharing with USC's Department of Public Safety.

It also has plans for "predictive policing" in the area. Basically, that
involves using sophisticated algorithms to predict and prevent crime.

The murders of Wu and Qu have also raised concerns about the availability of
affordable and safe student housing.

They were gunned down while sitting in a BMW in front of the house where Wu
rented a room, which is outside USC's public patrol area.

Students pay as much as $2,500 a month for a one bedroom apartment in the area
monitored by patrols and cameras.

Friends said Wu chose to live in the neighborhood to save money.

Wu apparently had concerns about safety, however, and planned to move next
semester.

USC says it plans to add 5,000 additional student-housing beds.

The first phase is redeveloping the University Village, which will provide 3,000
of those beds for graduate students.

A $200,000 reward is still being offered in connection with the murders of Wu
and Qu.

Anyone with information is asked to call investigators with Southwest Area
Homicide at (213) 485-2417.

Anonymous callers can contact Crimestoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS (800-222-8477).

___ (c)2012 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120426-5LA-USC-Gets-New-Safety-Measures-in-Wake-of-Student-Slayings-0426-20120
426

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2012


                               10 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2012 Georgia State University
                      Georgia State University Law Review

                                  Summer, 2012

                      Georgia State University Law Review

                           28 Ga. St. U.L. Rev. 1193

LENGTH: 18478 words

ARTICLE: THE GREAT RECESSION AND ITS IMPLICATIONS FOR COMMUNITY POLICING

NAME: Matthew J. Parlow *

BIO:


* Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Associate Professor of Law, Marquette
University Law School; J.D., Yale Law School; B.A., Loyola Marymount University.
I would like to thank Mary Ellen Archer Lighthiser and the other editors of the
Georgia State University Law Review for inviting me to speak at their symposium
entitled "The Criminal Justice System in a Time of Economic Meltdown: Crisis or
Opportunity for Reform?" as well as for their research and editing assistance;
Professor Janine Kim for her comments on an earlier draft of this article; Brian
Guyer, Emily Hinkens, Dieter Juedes, Sam Liverseed, and Sarah Matt for their
research assistance; and Marquette University Law School for its financial
support.

HIGHLIGHT: During the last twenty years, community policing has been the
dominant approach to local law enforcement. Community policing is based, in
part, on the broken windows theory of public safety. The broken windows theory
suggests a link between low-level crime and violent crime--that is, if minor
offenses are allowed to pervade a community, they will lead to a proliferation
of crime and, ultimately, a community plagued by violent crime. To maintain a
perception of community orderliness, many local governments adopted "order
maintenance" laws--such as panhandling ordinances and antihomeless statutes.
This emphasis on cracking down on such low-level offenses brought with it an
increase in the needs and costs of policing, prosecutions, jails, social
services, and other related resources.

   When the economy was flourishing, local governments were able to pay for the
time- and resource-intensive broken windows approach to community policing. The
Great Recession, however, has forced localities to think critically about
whether they can sustain these practices given budget cuts. This Article
analyzes the effects that the downturn in the economy has had on public safety
budgets and the changes that many local governments have made, and are
continuing to make, to adjust to decreasing revenue and resources. This Article
will also explore proposed changes to the current criminal justice and social
service systems that seek cost-effective approaches to deliver the same level of
public safety to which communities are accustomed. In particular, this Article
will assess and evaluate evidence-based decision-making--an emerging trend in
some criminal justice systems--as part of an evolving trend driven by the
effects of the Great Recession, but also stemming out of community policing.
Finally, this Article will use Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, as an example of an
evidence-based decision-making approach and explain how it can fulfill the
public safety goals of the broken windows theory of community policing while
creating a framework that provides for "smart" decision-making that accounts for
the financial realities that most cities face.

TEXT:
 [*1195]  I. INTRODUCTION

   The last fifteen to twenty years has brought a paradigm shift in local
policing efforts--moving from a reactive approach to a proactive one marked by
community engagement and proble-moriented policing processes. This shift spawned
the rise of community policing as a dominant trend in local policing. Community
policing is, in part, based on the seminal work of George L. Kelling and James
Q. Wilson's Broken Windows.  n1 The broken windows theory links minor public
disorders--vagrancy, public drunkenness, and panhandling, to name a few--to
violent crime: If such small offenses are allowed to pervade a community, they
will inevitably escalate and lead to a community plagued by violent crime.
Building on social psychology theory, the broken windows theory views
maintaining a perception of community orderliness--by cracking down on low-level
criminal offenses to stop their proliferation or escalation--as central to
keeping that community safe. Community policing was designed on these premises,
and thus many local governments adopted "order maintenance" laws such as
panhandling ordinances, anti-gang statutes, anti-homeless statutes, and
anti-loitering laws, to take aim at maintaining order in their communities. This
focus on low-level offenses led to increases in prosecutions and a demand for
attendant needs such as jails, prisons, and other social services related to the
criminal justice system. This trend in local policing also coincided with a wave
of "tough on crime" political rhetoric and policies.

   The Great Recessions  n2 --and the related budget deficits faced by many
local governments--are forcing local governments  n3 to think  [*1196]
critically about their commitment to community policing and the costs associated
with it. Can this dominant approach to local policing remain intact with the
economic realities faced by local governments? Or might new local policing
philosophies align with fledgling movements in the criminal justice and social
service systems that seek to make difficult but cost-efficient decisions
regarding the allocation of scarce resources? This Article explores these
questions to determine what changes are in store for local governments due to
the current economic crisis and what their implications are for localities. This
Article will also examine the proposed changes to the criminal justice and
social service systems that seek cost-efficient approaches that hark back to a
rehabilitative approach to low-level criminals--in somewhat stark contrast to
the "tough on crime" rhetoric that has pervaded the political debate. Finally,
this Article will assess and evaluate the broader implications of these
coalescing trends on local policing and criminal justice and social service
systems.

   Part II of this Article provides an overview of community policing, the most
prevalent model of policing today. Part III briefly describes the broken windows
theory, which serves as a foundational basis for this model of policing. Part IV
describes some of the costs of community policing--both for local governments
and arrestees. Part V explores how the financial downturn marked by the Great
Recession has affected local government funding and describes the difficult
funding choices communities face--related to police services and more
generally--because of these changed circumstances. Part VI analyzes how cities
have responded to reduced funding in both traditional and nontraditional
manners. Part VII reflects on how these difficult economic times may provide an
opportunity for a more creative, holistic approach to policing and social
services--in the form of evidence-based decision-making--that remains consistent
with the broken windows theory of community policing while adjusting to the
realities of current local government budgets. Part VII uses Milwaukee County as
an example of how some localities are embracing evidence-based decision-making
[*1197]  to reinvent their criminal justice system during these challenging
economic times. Part VIII will provide some concluding thoughts.

   II. COMMUNITY POLICING

   The term "community policing" has no settled definition. While the goal of
this Article is not to delve into the various iterations and characteristics
that collectively define community policing, a working definition and
understanding proves helpful for the purposes of the forthcoming analysis.
Community policing is a theoretical and practical approach to policing that
focuses on crime prevention, order maintenance, and partnership with the
community to achieve these goals.  n4 The United States Department of Justice's
Office of Community Oriented Police Services defines community policing as "a
philosophy that promotes organizational strategies, which support the systematic
use of partnerships and problem-solving techniques, to proactively address the
immediate conditions that give rise to public safety issues such as crime,
social disorder, and fear of crime."  n5 As described further below, community
policing shepherded in a new model of policing that valued decentralization,
deep community  [*1198]  partnerships, a problem-solving approach to crime and
crime prevention, and citizen satisfaction.  n6

   Community policing rose to prominence in the 1980s after a general consensus
formed that police-community relationships were severely strained and that there
was a need for a different paradigm for the legitimacy and effectiveness of
local police forces.  n7 The traditional model of the "warrior" police
officer--"the detached, aloof crime-fighter"--battling the enemy (that is, the
public) was one that had sown deep resentment in many communities.  n8 Law
enforcement organizations thus sought to change their image and partner with
their respective communities to better achieve a mutual goal: a safe environment
within which to work and live.  n9 At the same time, new research emerged that
called into question the efficacy of traditional policing theories and
practices. Studies questioned whether some of the tenets of policing leading up
to the 1980s were effective: increasing the number of passive patrols in a
neighborhood; random and saturation patrols; and an emphasis on rapid response
times for 911 calls.  n10 Finally, crimes rates were also on the rise during
this time, which led to considerable fear in many neighborhoods.  n11 The
confluence of these three forces--the rise in crime, poor relationships between
many police departments and their communities, and research questioning the
effectiveness of traditional police strategies--led to an environment where a
paradigm shift to community policing could, and did, occur.

   Community policing thus ushered in an approach to policing that deemphasized
the "us against them" and "warrior police officer versus the enemy" view and
focused instead on collaboration and partnership with the community.  n12 In
this model, instead of patrolling  [*1199]  neighborhoods in cars, police
officers walk a beat within a neighborhood so that they are visible, easily
accessible to the community, and better able to develop strong ties with
community stakeholders.  n13 The collaborative emphasis of community policing
provides the community with an opportunity to provide input regarding the
services that it receives and the types of problems it would like addressed.
n14 Community policing thus embraces collaboration with various community
stakeholders: neighborhood groups, grass-roots organizations, property owners,
businesses, other government officials and agencies, and the like. In making
common cause, the community can define its social norms and values. Partnering
with the police department ensures that those norms are inculcated and respected
in the community and enforced by the police.  n15 This approach also allows the
police and those they serve to tailor specific solutions to the problems and
challenges facing their particular community.  n16

   This ability for the community to help inform police decision-making comports
with the problem-oriented approach to policing that this model encourages.
Indeed, community policing envisions a problem-oriented approach where police
officers collaborate with key stakeholders in a community. This collaboration
identifies disorders and then devises solutions that seek to solve the
underlying problems.  n17 As discussed in Part VII, not all of these underlying
[*1200]  problems are necessarily crime related. Consequently, community
policing expects that the police department will engage and collaborate with
other governmental and social services agencies to help address these problems.
n18 With the financial constraints affecting local governments today, this
holistic approach to addressing disorder and its underlying problems may prove
of even greater importance in maintaining community policing and attempting to
stay true to the broken windows theory that underlies it.

   III. BROKEN WINDOWS THEORY

   The broken windows theory of policing provides one of the key philosophical
foundations for community policing.  n19 George L. Kelling and James Q. Wilson
first outlined the theory in their seminal 1982 article.  n20 In the article,
the authors describe a Newark, New Jersey neighborhood that implemented a police
foot patrol after many years of having only vehicle control.  n21 The foot
patrol officer kept order in the neighborhood by encouraging normatively
desirable behavior. For example, the officer would not allow drunks to sleep on
the main streets--rather, only in alleys--and he arrested people for breaking
informal rules of vagrancy.  n22 Interestingly, while the neighborhood did not,
in fact, see a reduction in crime after the implementation of the foot patrol,
residents nevertheless felt safe and perceived that crime rates had dropped.
n23 This story served as the  [*1201]  conduit for Kelling and Wilson to develop
their theory linking disorder to violent crime.

   While acknowledging that for many the link seems tenuous at best, Kelling and
Wilson claim that "at the community level, disorder and crime are usually
inextricably linked, in a kind of developmental sequence."  n24 To this end, the
authors theorize that if small infractions such as vagrancy, public drunkenness,
and panhandling--the broken windows--are allowed to pervade a community, then
crime in the area will further proliferate, and the neighborhood will eventually
be riddled with violent crime.  n25 These obvious and visible signs of disorder
undermine the social, law-abiding norms in a community.  n26 The disorder
signals that the community either cannot or will not enforce basic social
norms--a clear indication of a breakdown of community control.  n27 If a
community is unwilling or unable to enforce social norms, it provides a
reasonable inference to both criminals and law-abiding citizens that the
community similarly will not or cannot prevent more serious crimes.  n28 This
disorder leads criminals to commit more serious crimes in greater numbers and
instills fear in the law-abiding stakeholders in the community. Conversely, if
criminals see more arrests for drunkenness, driving violations, or other
disruptions of order, they will believe arrest is more likely and thus will be
deterred from committing crimes.  n29  [*1202]  Indeed, as Professor Dan M.
Kahan points out, "[I]ndividuals are much more likely to commit crimes when they
perceive that criminal activity is widespread."  n30 If there is no visible
communal moral rebuke of small crimes, people in the community will likely
engage in such behavior themselves because they perceive such actions to be
acceptable--with low risks and potentially high payoffs.  n31

   Social psychology supports the broken windows theory. If people see a
weakening in the orderliness of a system, they begin to doubt whether they can
do anything to prevent such disorder.  n32 This doubt feeds on itself, causing
those in a disorderly neighborhood to be less likely to report a crime because
they think the police will not respond in time or will not be able to do
anything about the situation.  n33 This devolving cycle leads to more crimes as
those before them go unreported and unpunished.  n34 The increase in crimes is
also accompanied by a greater seriousness in the type of crimes that are
committed. In this regard, disorder leads to citizen fear, which causes citizens
to physically and socially withdraw.  n35 Such withdrawal spurs increased
predatory behavior and rising crime rates--leading to a spiral of decline in the
neighborhood.  n36 Therefore, according to the broken windows theory, a
community must address disorder early on so as to prevent the spiral of decline
from eventually occurring.

   The broken windows theory thus spurred policing responses that sought to
crack down on low-level criminal offenses to stop their  [*1203]  proliferation,
escalation, or both.  n37 For when police enforce basic social norms, and when
community stakeholders both obey and embrace such norms, the community signals
to criminals and law-abiding citizens alike that it is intolerant of criminal
behavior.  n38 This positive messaging, broken windows theorists posit, helps
avoid the downward spiral that communities with rampant disorder experience.
Accordingly, police seeking to adopt broken windows policing strategies target
both social and physical disorder. Social disorder includes loitering,
vandalism, gangs, public drinking, drug dealing, prostitution, and street
harassment.  n39 Physical disorder encompasses building abandonment, graffiti,
litter on the streets and sidewalks, abandoned cars, junk and garbage in vacant
lots, and the like.  n40 These small quality-of-life crimes "contribute to a
sense of disorder and danger on the street."  n41 Many communities thus adopted
order maintenance laws such as panhandling ordinances, anti-gang statutes,
anti-homeless statutes, anti-loitering statutes, and vagrancy statutes to target
these forms of disorder and avoid the devolution toward crime that the broken
windows theory describes.  n42 Police departments even used civil laws like
nuisance abatement and forfeiture laws to address and prevent these
quality-of-life criminal activities.  n43 This approach supports the social
influence theory's focus on how a community's norms and behavior affect its
conduct and the conduct of others  [*1204]  entering the community.  n44
Therefore, by adopting order maintenance laws, communities can use social
influence to discourage criminality.  n45

   However, this social influence aspect of the broken windows theory is
oftentimes misunderstood in community policing literature. As Professor K. Babe
Howell notes, "[O]rder-maintenance policing as described in Broken Windows
neither demands nor suggests that zero tolerance arrest policies are efficient,
desirable, or effective methods to achieve order and reduce fear."  n46 In fact,
the broken windows approach to community policing is not entirely based on
arrests. For example, the police officer in the Broken Windows article did not
arrest people, but rather enforced social norms by breaking up arguments and
asking drunks to move to different areas.  n47 Indeed, under this approach,
police seek to employ non-arrest approaches and interventions--such as
discussion, persuasion, negotiation, counseling, and ordering--in an attempt to
ameliorate the problem without making an arrest.  n48 Nevertheless, despite this
philosophical and practical approach to non-arrest interventions, the broken
windows theory has led to a significant number of arrests for relatively minor
offenses during the community policing era.  n49

   IV. THE COSTS OF COMMUNITY POLICING

   Whether police attempt arrest or non-arrest solutions, the broken windows
approach to community policing requires significant expenditures and resources
by local governments.  n50 Foot patrols, while beneficial for establishing
better community relationships, are  [*1205]  less efficient for police in terms
of patrolling portions of the city. In this regard, a police department needs
more police officers than it previously did to maintain such a visible presence
in the community. With the shift to community policing, police officers spend
more time attending community meetings and developing personal relationships
with key stakeholders in the neighborhood in order to help understand the
community's challenges and devise strategies for addressing them. While an
effective use of the police officer's time in the theoretical construct of
community policing, such efforts are time-intensive and require more dedicated
officers from a police force than previous approaches to policing did.

   Moreover, the broken windows approach to community policing inevitably leads
to arrests for the various low-level criminal offenses that lead to disorder in
a community. There are also tremendous hidden costs in the time, money, and
personnel required for "extra arrests" and the costs to the local criminal
justice system in processing and prosecuting each misdemeanor.  n51 The police
department, the district attorney's or city attorney's offices, the public
defenders' offices, and the local court system all spend a significant amount of
resources to process these minor offenses through the criminal justice system.
n52 For example, many police departments face substantial overtime expenses to
pay for police officers and other staff to process the increase in these
quality-of-life criminal arrests.  n53 There are also other externalized costs
borne by the city, and taxpayers more broadly, when an arrest and criminal
record leads an individual down the all-too-common spiral of multiple subsequent
arrests, incarceration, and unemployment.  n54

   This is to say nothing of the significant costs to the individual arrested
for these low-level, quality-of-life crimes. The arrestee loses significant
time, money, and opportunity each time he or she is  [*1206]  booked for a
misdemeanor. He or she typically misses two to four days of work (or school),
which may lead to a loss of employment, and the arrestee must also pay the
processing fees for being arrested.  n55 The criminal record that such an
arrestee may wind up with can prevent that person from getting a loan for a car,
a house, or schooling--thus limiting his or her options and potentially leading
that person back to committing more crimes.  n56 The arrestee--and possibly his
or her family--could be kicked out of public housing.  n57 All of these costs on
the individual affect the community as well. While the broken windows approach
to community policing may decrease fear in the community, it might also result
in economic ruin for the arrestee and thus create an even more desperate
criminal.  n58 These costs have become more magnified in the past few years as
the Great Recession has taken a devastating toll on the economy more generally
and local government budgets more specifically.

   V. LOCAL GOVERNMENT FUNDING AND THE GREAT RECESSION

A. Sources of Local Government Funding

   Local governments receive funding from six main sources: taxes, federal
government assistance, state government assistance, special assessments, fees
and fines, and borrowing.  n59 While local governments do not have an inherent
power to levy taxes, states grant localities the power to tax through their
constitutions, statutes, and local home rule charter provisions.  n60 However,
the local government power to tax is often quite limited and not universally
enjoyed in every state.  n61 The most common and universal form of local
[*1207]  government tax is the property tax, while some localities are also able
to garner funds through taxes related to sales and other excise taxes, local
income, use, and licenses.  n62

   Due to these limited taxation sources of revenue, local governments rely on
the other aforementioned sources of non-tax revenues to help meet their budgets.
The federal government has historically given substantial financial aid to local
governments through block grants--categorical grants aimed at funding particular
programs, with specific requirements and conditions attached--which gave local
governments more discretion to use such funds for a variety of policy areas.
n63 State governments also provide funding to local governments through direct
revenue sharing, education budgets, and grants-in-aid (for specific purposes or
uses).  n64 Special assessments allow local governments to raise revenue by
funding a community improvement--such as infrastructure projects--by assessing a
fee to those property owners who will benefit from it.  n65 Localities also
charge various fees and fines on businesses, individuals, properties, and other
entities for various regulatory, licensing, permitting, and user purposes.  n66
Finally, local governments also obtain money needed to meet their yearly
budgetary obligations by borrowing money and issuing bonds to repay their debt.
n67

B. The Effects of the Great Recession on Public Safety Budgets

   Before the Great Recession began in 2007, these funding sources for local
governments were relatively stable and predictable. However, with the financial
downturn that the United States--and the world more generally--has experienced
in the past several years,  [*1208]  localities experienced severe reductions
from virtually all of their revenue sources that dramatically impacted their
budgets. The federal government significantly cut its funding to local
governments in its attempt to balance its budget and rein in the national debt.
n68 Many state governments cut their funding to local governments--in a variety
of different areas--to help make up budget deficits.  n69 Cities also saw a
significant drop in tax revenues as housing prices dropped, foreclosures
proliferated, and spending (and thus sales taxes) dropped significantly while
unemployment rose and fear of worse financial circumstances lingered.  n70 In
addition, some cities bore additional unexpected costs. Localities in
California, for example, were forced by state law to house prisoners formerly
imprisoned in state facilities in an attempt to save money at the state level.
n71

   Police departments, and public safety budgets more generally, were not immune
to these difficult economic times for local governments. A 2010 study conducted
by the Police Executive Forum revealed that fifty-one percent of police
departments responding to the survey had their budgets cut since the Great
Recession began.  n72 The average cut to police department budgets was seven
percent.  n73 Fifty-nine percent of those respondents also anticipated cuts to
their budgets in 2011.  n74 Another study showed that eight-five percent of
responding police departments had their budgets  [*1209]  cut in 2010, with more
than half of them experiencing a five percent cut and nearly a quarter of them
having a cut of ten percent or more.  n75 Still another study detailed that
seventy-eight percent of responding major city police departments experienced
budget cuts by an average of 5.4%.  n76 As nearly any newspaper in the country
would likely report, police departments--like all other local government
agencies--have experienced, and will likely continue to face, budget cuts during
this economic downturn.

   VI. LOCAL GOVERNMENT RESPONSES AND AN OPPORTUNITY BORN?

A. Traditional Approaches: Cutting Costs and Raising Revenue

   The challenging economic times and attendant budget cuts have forced police
departments to make difficult decisions to balance their budgets. There are
several approaches that are worth analyzing because of their potential impact on
a police department's ability to continue with a broken windows approach to
community policing. Many police departments have laid off officers and made
other reductions in their workforces. Some police departments have experimented
with turning to private security firms for help with police services--or at
least permitting them to operate in certain spheres--and "de-deputizing" certain
police work so that civilian employees can perform those tasks. Other cities and
suburbs have explored combining or regionalizing police services. Finally, many
cities have attempted various cost-saving measures and looked to identify new,
nontraditional revenue sources in an attempt to maintain staffing and service
levels.

    [*1210]  1. Reductions in Police Department Workforces

   To address budget cuts, many police departments have laid off officers, made
other personnel cuts, or left various jobs unfilled.  n77 In fact, the United
States Department of Justice estimated that by the end of 2011, approximately
12,000 officers would have been laid off by police departments and nearly 30,000
law enforcement jobs would go unfilled.  n78 Some examples of police layoffs are
breathtaking. The City of Camden, New Jersey, announced in January 2011 that it
was cutting nearly half of its police force.  n79 The City of Flint, Michigan,
laid off 80 of its 260 police officers due to budget cuts.  n80 The City of
Paterson, New Jersey, eliminated one quarter of its police force--125
officers--to help combat a $ 70 million city budget deficit.  n81 The effects of
such cuts are even more staggering when considering the significant amount of
crime that each of these cities experiences.

   Such a reduction in police officers has forced police departments to alter
and reduce some of their traditional services and practices. Many police
departments are prioritizing emergency calls over non-emergency calls.  n82
Others are making similar, though difficult, decisions on what problems to focus
on given their more limited resources. For example, some departments are no
longer responding to motor vehicle thefts.  n83 The City of Detroit, Michigan,
recently followed the lead of other big cities in no longer responding to
burglar alarms unless the alarm company has verified that there is a  [*1211]
valid alarm.  n84 In a response to a reduction of 165 sworn police officers, the
City of San Jose, California, adopted a "modified response policy" that reduces
the number of police responses to non-emergency situations.  n85 To this end,
the San Jose Police Department (SJPD) no longer responds to noise complaints,
recycling thefts, traffic accidents in which no one is injured, fruit vending
without valid permits, and illegal parking.  n86 The SJPD also followed a
national trend of severely reducing, if not eliminating, its horse-mounted
police force.  n87 Other police departments reduced their investigation
follow-ups with property, computer, and financial crimes; non-felony domestic
assaults; narcotics; and other such crimes.  n88 Some localities are reducing or
eliminating police services for community events such as parades, funerals, and
high school football games.  n89 Finally, cutbacks have forced some police
departments to require residents to file their own reports online or in  [*1212]
writing for lower-level crimes such as break-ins.  n90 With the reductions in
police personnel that many cities are experiencing, some police departments have
no choice but to make such difficult decisions.

2. Partnering with Private Security Firms and Civilianizing Police Work

   Cities and their police departments have also tried to cut costs by working
with private security firms--or at least allowing them to function in certain
capacities and locations.  n91 The use of private security guards in specific
areas of a city--in downtown or particular tourist locations--was not uncommon
before the Great Recession.  n92 However, the recent budget cuts have led some
police departments to collaborate with, or even hire, private security firms to
help them with providing police services. For example, the Minneapolis Police
Department (MPD) collaborates with private security officers in the downtown
business district to help reduce crime through enhanced communication, wireless
cameras placed in strategic locations, and MPD training of these private
security officers.  n93 Cities such as Las Vegas, Nevada; Wilmington, Delaware;
New York City, New York; and Durham, North Carolina, have all collaborated with
private security firms to reduce their costs while maintaining their
effectiveness.  n94 Some cities have even sought to go further than such
collaborations. The City Council in Oakland, California, had originally voted to
hire private armed security guards to patrol high-crime  [*1213]  areas of the
city, but the contract was later rescinded when the company with whom it
contracted, International Services, Inc., was indicted for fraud.  n95 With the
significant cost savings in private security officers compared to sworn public
police officers, it is no wonder that many cities are exploring how they might
use or partner with private security firms.

   Other police departments have increased the duties of civilian workers by
assigning them tasks that deputized police officers have traditionally
performed. By shifting such clerical and non-law-enforcement activities to
civilians, police departments can deploy their sworn officers into the field to
deal with more pressing crime needs.  n96 Some cities have explored
responsibilities for civilians beyond the traditional clerical activities. For
example, the City of Mesa, Arizona, created a civilian investigation unit in
2009 to respond to low-level crimes and conduct investigations.  n97 These
civilian investigators take initial reports and collect DNA and fingerprints at
the crime scene, but they are not armed and do not have the authority to make an
arrest.  n98 The City of Chicago, Illinois, has similarly sought to cut costs by
civilianizing traditional police work, hiring 104 civilian detention aides at
city jails and transferring the police officers stationed there to beat patrols.
n99 Such civilianization has helped many cities save money in an era of
dwindling budgets.  n100

    [*1214]  3. Combining or Regionalizing Police Service

   Some cities and suburbs have explored the idea of combining or regionalizing
police service. Modeled after regional police service approaches in San
Francisco, California; Denver, Colorado; Las Vegas, Nevada; and San Antonio,
Texas, many communities have sought to either merge city police departments and
county sheriff departments or merge small suburban police forces into a regional
police force.  n101 In one survey, twenty-six percent of responding police
departments reported that their county partnered with a neighboring county to
consolidate police service, while another thirty-one percent of respondents have
had discussions with other localities regarding such consolidation.  n102 Other
cities have even disbanded their police departments and contracted with their
local sheriff's department for police services.  n103 While such proposals to
combine or regionalize police services are often met with resistance and
controversy--because of concerns about centralizing a government service as
community-tailored as policing and crime prevention--consolidation,
regionalization, or even outsourcing policing services to the local sheriff's
department may be the most  [*1215]  cost-effective way for some communities to
deal with the current economic times.

4. Cost-Cutting Measures and New Revenue Sources

   Some cities are attempting to counter budget reductions through various
cost-saving measures. For example, Chicago is seeking to curtail the police
department's current sick leave policy and to close underutilized police
stations.  n104 Many police departments have been forced to cut back or
eliminate plans to acquire technology to aid in their work.  n105 Other local
governments have sought to reduce expenses at their jails. Given that medical
costs are the largest service costs for most local government jails, it is
unsurprising that cities have sought to save money on these expenses.  n106 Some
counties have begun treating patients inside of the jails instead of
transferring them to external facilities; switching from name-brand medications
to generic ones; and creating better monitoring of inmate medication
distribution and use to decrease the amount of unused medicine.  n107 Other
local governments have privatized the medical services that they provide in
their jails in an attempt to save money.  n108

   Some counties have sought to reduce the cost of feeding their inmates. For
example, fourteen counties in New York are saving  [*1216]  money by purchasing
"Cook Chill" food products that allow a mere reheating of the food to be served
to inmates.  n109 The switch to this type of food preparation model is estimated
to save these counties an average of $ 730 per inmate per year.  n110 Sauk
County, Wisconsin, no longer provides warm breakfast for inmates and instead
serves only cold cereal--saving approximately $ 50,000 per year.  n111 Polk
County, Florida, eliminated peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, cornbread,
coffee, and juice from its jail menu to save money.  n112 The Sandusky County
Jail in Ohio grows produce in a garden to use for meals in the jail--an effort
that has saved $ 20,000 in food costs.  n113 Some counties have also pursued
privatization of their food services, which will save one county at least $
700,000 per year.  n114

   Local governments have also attempted a hodgepodge of other cost-cutting
measures to address the financial strains their budgets face. To save on
electricity costs, Hays County Jail in Texas moved lights out from 1:30 a.m. to
11:00 p.m.  n115 The Barrow County Detention Center in Georgia mandated that all
incoming and outgoing mail be in the form of postcards to reduce the time spent
on opening and inspecting mail.  n116 Some localities have used inmates for
[*1217]  general labor--such as mowing lawns, shoveling snow, picking up litter,
weeding, maintaining parks, and caring for buildings--which enables them to cut
the costs of these services from their respective budgets.  n117 Finally, some
localities are considering consolidating jails and jail services in order to
save money.  n118 These are just some examples of the lengths that local
governments are going to in order to cut costs given the current budget cuts to
public safety spending.

   Cities are also looking to nontraditional revenue sources in an attempt to
maintain current staffing and service levels. For example, Chicago proposes
raising $ 25 million in new revenue through the reallocation of tax increment
financing (TIF) funds in order to hire 250 new police officers.  n119 Many
localities have used fundraising and community philanthropic efforts to raise
additional revenue.  n120 Several counties in Michigan, Wood County in
Wisconsin, and Riverside County in California have all started billing inmates
for their stay in jail.  n121 Polk County, Florida, now charges male inmates
[*1218]  for underwear--a move that has an estimated savings of $ 45,000 per
year.  n122 Riverside County, California, also plans on charging inmates for
using public defenders.  n123

B. Creative Alternatives to Traditional Incarceration

   Other local governments are using the current budget crises to rethink their
traditional approaches to policing (including the broken windows approach to
community policing), which have focused heavily on incarceration. Indeed, the
financial realities of an incarceration-dominant approach to policing pose an
expensive challenge for most local governments. To illustrate the point: A city
or county often spends $ 100 or more per day to house a criminal (or someone
accused of a crime)--a daunting figure given the increase in the number of
incarcerated individuals in most jails.  n124 It is no wonder, then, that many
localities are rethinking an incarceration-dominated approach to community
policing. But to simply look at the creative alternatives, described below, as
solely money-based would be to oversimplify these cities' and counties'
motivations. As this sub-section and the Milwaukee County experience (detailed
below) demonstrate, those in the criminal justice system in many localities are
seeking to approach the problems of crime and disorder in a smarter and,
arguably, more effective manner than the traditional "tough on crime" ethos that
has pervaded the criminal justice system--and political discourse more
generally--for decades. While the costs of the current system may be a
significant motivating factor  [*1219]  for why these communities are rethinking
their approach to the criminal justice system, the communities' impetus also
stems from a desire to better achieve their goals for a safe community and to
help those who may need social service support to avoid recidivism and problems
in the future.

   Many localities are using house arrest for pretrial detainees, for parolees,
and even as a criminal sentence.  n125 Local governments design these programs
to enable those who commit, or are accused of committing, certain low-level,
nonviolent crimes to serve their sentences at home, monitored by an electronic
ankle bracelet.  n126 One obvious benefit for these localities comes in the form
of cost savings, such as not having to pay for an inmate's health care, food,
and other related expenses. In this regard, the results have been promising thus
far. Scottsdale, Arizona, for example, saved $ 200,000 in the first five weeks
of its electronic monitoring program for drunk driving cases, and Cook County,
Illinois, cut its cost per detainee from $ 142.60 per day to $ 64.74 with
electronic monitoring.  n127

    [*1220]  However, such programs also seek to avoid substantially disrupting
the lives of those accused of crimes or those who have committed low-level
crimes. In doing so, these programs aim to help these people avoid a downward
spiral of more frequent and more serious criminal acts because they have lost
their jobs and support systems. For example, house arrest and electronic
monitoring programs aim to allow these low-risk criminals to hold (or continue
to hold) jobs and enjoy the help and support of their families--factors that can
help these criminals avoid recidivism.  n128 For example, Dallas County, Texas,
saved $ 400,000 in the first year of its house arrest program, and it also saw
273 out of the 281 offenders successfully complete the program.  n129 Through
such programs, local governments seek to help ensure that those accused or
convicted of minor crimes--who are not serious threats to the community--can
maintain some semblance of their normal lives and thus avoid the significant
costs and disruptions that often come with being arrested or convicted of such
low-level crimes.

   Localities are also adopting or expanding alternatives to traditional
incarceration, such as work release and halfway houses. Work release programs
allow nonviolent misdemeanor and low-level felony offenders to maintain jobs in
the community while serving their ordered jail sentence.  n130 In order to be
eligible for and complete a work release program, the convicted criminal must
obtain a written order from a judge, comport with the rules of the program, and
maintain a job.  n131 Some counties have used weekend incarceration and work
release--in conjunction with electronic monitoring--to  [*1221]  enable inmates
to work at county facilities, such as the zoo or veterans' cemetery, and also
allow them to sleep at home after work.  n132 Other counties have linked work
release with halfway homes--a scenario where inmates sleep at the halfway house
at night but leave during the day for their court-approved work.  n133 Finally,
some counties have established day reporting centers for nonviolent
offenders--usually alcohol and drug abusers--who cannot make bail.  n134 Under a
traditional system, these offenders would spend weeks in jail waiting for court
hearings for failure to post bail. Under the day reporting center programs,
these offenders report daily to the center and are subject to random drug tests.
n135 In addition, these offenders receive vocational training and, if they
complete the  [*1222]  program successfully, they can avoid jail altogether and
hopefully avoid recidivism in the future.  n136

   Counties have similarly adopted specialty courts to complement such diversion
programs, in an attempt to help offenders with their underlying problems through
social service programs and to avoid recidivism. Many counties set up these
courts to help channel those whose criminal acts stem from drug addiction or
mental health issues into treatment programs that will help them deal with their
underlying problem. These programs serve as alternatives to simply incarcerating
these individuals and then, in all likelihood, releasing them to commit the same
types of crimes because their underlying disorder was not addressed while in
jail.  n137 For example, the City of Greenwood, Minnesota, uses a program in
which substance abusers enter a recovery court program where the abuser lives at
home but cannot use drugs or alcohol and cannot live with anyone who uses drugs.
n138 Recovery court supervisors randomly show up at the participant's house to
check for alcohol or drug use and ensure compliance with the program's
requirements.  n139 The program also forbids participants from going to
locations where drugs or alcohol are used.  n140 If participants break these
rules, they become subjected to more restrictive rules and may ultimately be
sent to jail.  n141 As this example demonstrates, the purpose of such specialty
courts is to reduce recidivism by helping treat the criminal offender's
underlying  [*1223]  problem, while at the same time saving money by keeping
them out of jail initially.  n142

   As described further below, some local governments are moving to
evidence-based practices to make "smarter" decisions as to how to police their
communities and how to administer their criminal justice system. For example,
Napa County, California, designed a matrix program that rates prisoners on
certain factors to determine who is too dangerous to release before their
sentences end and who is truly nonviolent and could be eligible for diversion or
early release programs.  n143 "Graduates" of the Napa County matrix program have
a 70% employment rate and only a 24% recidivism rate, compared to the statewide
recidivism rate of approximately 70%.  n144 The Napa County model has been so
successful that the American Civil Liberties Union has called upon other
California counties to develop "evidence-based solutions for alternatives to
incarceration and reentry, instead of adding jail beds."  n145

   Finally, many local governments have shifted their operational models to
include enhanced technology that allows police departments to improve their
outcomes and increase efficiency.  n146 Some police departments have begun to
use certain public surveillance systems--such as closed circuit televisions and
light-based intervention systems--that "can act as force multipliers through
incident intervention and crime prevention, without requiring  [*1224]  the
immediate presence of an officer."  n147 Other police departments are using
geographical technology such as the Tactical Automatic Vehicle Locator, which
reduces response times by providing the locations of patrol cars and allowing
commanders to dispatch the closest patrol car with far greater precision and
efficiency.  n148

   Other police departments have taken greater leaps of faith with technology
due to severe budget cuts. For example, the Santa Cruz Police Department (SCPD)
has lost twenty percent of its force since 2000 due to budget cuts.  n149 To
help meet the needs of its community, the SCPD started experimenting with a
predictive policing model.  n150 Based on technology that helps predict
aftershocks of earthquakes, this predictive policing model uses crime data to
identify specific areas, and even specific times, in which crime is most likely
to occur.  n151 This model enables the SCPD to send patrols to certain
"hotspots" each day, which it believes serves as a deterrent and allows for
better responsiveness--and thus likelihood of arrest--when a crime occurs.  n152
Based on the perceived success of the SCPD's predictive policing model, other
cities--such as Los Angeles--are hoping to develop similar models, including
ones that model both property crimes and violent crimes.  n153 In an era of
budget cuts and reduced staffing, such technological advances and other
evidence-based strategies may help evolve community policing from its historical
model to an approach similar in theory, but different in execution.

    [*1225]  VII. EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION-MAKING AND MILWAUKEE COUNTY

A. Evidence-Based Decision-Making

   With the changes and challenges that they have faced during the past several
years, some localities have concluded that they must change their approach to
community policing to continue to be effective in the future. The economic
realities of the Great Recession coalesced with a national sentencing reform
movement--led by the National Center for State Courts (NCSC)--entitled "Getting
Smarter About Sentencing."  n154 Two of the key objectives to this movement were
"to reduce reliance on long-term incarceration as a criminal sanction for those
not posing a substantial danger to the community or committing the most serious
offenders" and "to promote the development, funding, and utilization of
community-based alternatives to incarceration for appropriate offenses."  n155
At the same time, the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) launched its
"Evidence-Based Decision Making in Local Criminal Justice Systems" initiative.
n156 The NIC's initiative was driven by the belief that research could better
inform decision-making in the criminal justice system and that it would lead to
better outcomes for public safety and the community more generally.  n157 In
this regard, the confluence of these events helped bring greater clarity to the
problems, challenges, and needs of many communities and their criminal justice
systems. The goals were also similar and clear: keeping communities safe,
reducing recidivism, being mindful of the costs of an incarceration-first
approach to criminal justice, offender rehabilitation, and providing
community-based alternatives to  [*1226]  incarceration to help low-level
offenders address their underlying problems (such as mental illness or drug or
alcohol addiction).  n158 In short, "How can communities be smarter about
running their criminal justice systems?" Given the changes and movements in the
criminal justice system, evidenced-based decision-making began to gain traction
in some localities.  n159

   Evidence-based decision-making in policing and in the criminal justice system
is modeled on the concept of evidence-based medicine that has been popular in
the health care field and human services fields more broadly.  n160
Evidence-based decision-making seeks to apply the best available evidence from
empirically sound social science research to decision-making in policing and the
criminal justice system more generally.  n161 Through experimentation, data
collection, and qualitative and quantitative analysis, evidence-based
decision-making seeks to identify the exact problem, propose possible solutions
that will address the problem, and analyze and weigh the costs and impacts of
the different solutions before implementation.  n162 In this regard,
evidence-based decision-making  [*1227]  seeks to use data and research of
historical outcomes of previous cases and decisions--such as releasing an
offender on bail and on what terms--and then using this information and those
outcomes to improve decision-making in similar cases in the future.  n163 By
using empirical findings to drive better-informed policies and practices in the
criminal justice system, localities can use evidence-based decision-making in
all aspects of public safety--from policing to arrest to final disposition and
discharge--to alter, and in some cases retool, long-held approaches that are no
longer economically sustainable nor, perhaps, normatively desirable.  n164

   In order to thoroughly inculcate evidence-based decision-making in this
manner, local governments must foster meaningful collaboration between the
partners in the criminal justice system and those entities providing various
social services to the community. There are numerous key decision points with
regard to those who come into contact with the criminal justice system: contact
with a police officer (whether leading to an arrest, detention, treatment,
citation, or release); pretrial status matters (including release on
recognizance, bail, conditions of supervised release, and the like);
prosecutorial discretion (charging, diversion, deferred prosecution, or
dismissal); potential plea bargains; sentencing (length, conditions, etc.);
institutional intervention (for example, regarding treatment); early release
(both with regard to timing and conditions); community intervention (decisions
involving, for example, conditions and supervision); violations of parole or
probation (sanctions, treatment, and the like); and discharge from the criminal
justice system.  n165 There are numerous decision-makers and key stakeholders in
the criminal justice system and the social service system that may have
important overlap with problems experienced in the realm of public  [*1228]
safety: law enforcement officers (police, sheriffs, and the like); attorneys
(prosecutors, public defenders, and other defense attorneys); pretrial
officials; court administrators; judges; victim advocates; probation and parole
officers; local elected and appointed officials; state legislators; social
service providers (for example, those who treat alcohol and drug addiction);
other local government agencies that collaborate with those in the criminal
justice system or are affected by their decisions; and community stakeholders
(such as civic leaders, faith-based groups, and the like).  n166 Given these
various and interconnected decision points and the significant number of
decision-makers and stakeholder groups, a locality's emphasis on collaboration
is critical to achieving the effectiveness and efficiency sought by
evidence-based decision-making.

   Such collaboration may involve the police working with prosecutors and other
law enforcement professionals to solve a problem--oftentimes a solution along
the lines of a traditional enforcement strategy such as arresting an individual
and prosecuting a crime.  n167 However, under the evidence-based decision-making
approach, law enforcement will also look to other governmental agencies for
assistance in solving various problems. For example, a community prosecutor
might work with a city's building department to identify code violations when
targeting a drug house.  n168 However, under this model, interagency
collaboration also seeks to be proactive to solve a community's problems before
they occur or in a manner that addresses the underlying cause of the
externalized problems so that they dissipate over time. For example, having
identified that almost half of the violent crime victims in the city are
teenagers, Chicago has sought to expand after-school and summer programs to
engage at-risk youth in positive activities.  n169 Moreover, as discussed
[*1229]  above, the alternatives to incarceration for those offenders who are
mentally ill or suffer from drug or alcohol addiction also provide examples of
such collaboration between those in the criminal justice system and social
service providers. Finally, and perhaps most relevant from a macro-level
perspective, these various stakeholders and decision-makers must collaborate to
determine how the research they have compiled and analyzed guides their
decision-making at the various decision points in the criminal justice system to
further their goals, set their priorities, and allocate their resources. Such
collaboration can lead to many of the types of alternatives to
incarceration--described above--that localities have implemented.

   There is no doubt that part of what drives this evidence-based
decision-making approach is the recognition that with declining revenues and
budget cuts, police departments and criminal justice systems must stretch their
resources to do more with less.  n170 In doing so, evidence-based
decision-making strives to improve the outcomes--and the efficiency and
effectiveness--of the criminal justice system while also saving money. In this
regard, evidence-based decision-making may help local governments remain
consistent with the broken windows theory of community policing, while
addressing the problems presented by the Great Recession.  n171

B. Questions, Concerns, Criticisms, and Challenges

   To be sure, with evidence-based decision-making still in its infancy in
policing and in the criminal justice system, there are still many questions,
concerns, and challenges that must be answered and resolved.  n172 For example,
politics still plays--and will likely continue  [*1230]  to play--a critical
role in policing and the criminal justice system, as politicians do not want to
be labeled "soft on crime." Political decision-making on public safety matters
does not always comport with decisions based on social science research. Indeed,
political decisions regarding public safety matters can be spurred by irrational
public "moral panics"--that is, a horrible crime that leads to "an emotional
wave of public repugnance and a demand for quick political action."  n173 Such
reactive political decision-making may not always be grounded in social science
research, but rather a popular political fix that assures the community that its
public officials are doing what constituents think is best--whether or not the
data and research support that reaction.

   Another challenge for the adoption of evidence-based decision-making--either
from a normative and/or logistical standpoint--is that there are such divergent
visions and philosophies for the optimal approach to public safety and the
criminal justice system.  n174 This reality is exacerbated by the fact that
there is a power imbalance among the various agencies and stakeholders in the
criminal justice system, which makes the collaboration described above even more
challenging.  n175 To add to this difficulty, there is systemic fragmentation in
the way that various states and local governments choose to structure and run
their respective criminal justice systems.  n176 This lack of uniformity creates
a logistical impediment to the emergence of a broad evidence-based
decision-making movement, as one model cannot be so easily replicated in most,
if not every, jurisdiction.  n177

    [*1231]  Finally, evidence is not always clear and can even be contradictory
at times, so there is still a need for good old-fashioned judgment in making
decisions involving policies, programs, resources, and the like in policing and
the criminal justice system--judgment that will, no doubt, draw criticism from
those who do not favor the decisions made. Moreover, in the criminal justice
field, there has not been a deeply embedded research and knowledge-based
culture, which may lead to great resistance in adopting evidence-based
decision-making.  n178 Even if desired, such a cultural shift may prove even
more difficult because the leadership in many criminal justice organizations do
not have the training necessary to effect organizational change.  n179
Nevertheless, despite these criticisms, questions, and challenges--for the
reasons detailed above--several localities have moved to adopt evidence-based
decision-making in their police departments and criminal justice systems more
generally as part of an evolution of their approach to community policing.

C. Milwaukee County: A Leader in Evidence-Based Decision-Making

   Milwaukee County in Wisconsin (Milwaukee) is one of three local governments
from around the country that won a grant competition sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Justice's National Institute of Corrections (NIC) to encourage and
help fund the adoption of more evidence-based decision-making in the local
criminal justice system.  n180 Through the Milwaukee County Community Justice
[*1232]  Council (MCCJC)--a collaboration and partnership between the various
partners in the criminal justice system--Milwaukee has sought to adopt and
implement evidence-based decision-making over the past few years.  n181 The
MCCJC's guiding principle in this endeavor has been the following: "[I]n
assessing an offender's risk of reoffense and criminogenic needs, and in
matching offenders with the appropriate supervision, treatment and jail
resources, systems like ours should employ instruments built on actuarial data,
as opposed to professional judgment alone."  n182 Indeed, by using data and
research--described further below--Milwaukee believes it can reduce the number
of people being held in jails or prisons, save significant amounts of money, and
maintain or even improve the level of public safety to which the community is
accustomed.  n183 Moreover, consistent with one of the key tenets of
evidence-based decision-making, the MCCJC brings together a vast array of
partners and stakeholders in the Milwaukee criminal justice system: the Chief
Judge of the Milwaukee County Courts; the City Attorney of Milwaukee; the
District Attorney of Milwaukee County; the Sheriff of Milwaukee County; the
Mayor of Milwaukee; the Chief Executive of Milwaukee County; the Health and
Human Services Director of the County; the Chief of the Milwaukee Police
Department; and representatives from community organizations, social service
providers, and the state legislature.  n184 While the collaborative group's
members have not agreed on all matters at all times, they are united  [*1233]
in advancing a meaningful and ambitious evidence-based decision-making approach
to the criminal justice system.  n185

   With the NIC grant, Milwaukee seeks to dramatically expand its evidence-based
decision-making, particularly in four key areas. First, based on promising
results from pilot projects in previous years, the Milwaukee Police Department
will train more of its field officers, booking officers, and dispatchers as to
how to respond effectively to those who are mentally ill and to improve
communication with others in the criminal justice system--those in jails,
prosecutors, defense attorneys, and court officials--regarding the challenges
that these individuals will face as they progress through the system.  n186 The
MCCJC will also be able to identify those chronic offenders with mental illness
who account for the majority of police service calls and help them seek
treatment for their underlying condition to avoid future problems.  n187 To
gauge its success in this effort, the MCCJC has set a goal that by the end of
2013 it will have reduced by 25% those suffering from a mental illness who lose
their benefits or housing for being jailed, and increase by 25% those who have a
mental illness who reconnect with services they need within twenty days of
arrest.  n188

   Second, the MCCJC intends to use and enhance the information it has to help
identify cases that will likely be successful in a diversion program or in a
deferred prosecution scenario.  n189 The MCCJC will use assessment tools to
gauge the risks and needs of offenders and negotiate the diversion or deferred
prosecution agreement accordingly.  n190 In addition, it will create an
evidence-based matrix  [*1234]  that delineates incentives and sanctions to
ensure compliance with this approach.  n191 To evaluate the efficacy of this
program, the MCCJC has set a three-fold goal by the end of 2013: (1) increasing
by 15% the number of pretrial detainees safely released and/or supervised in the
community as opposed to jail; (2) saving $ 1 million in the process; and (3)
reducing by a minimum of 40% the number of defendants who fail to follow
pretrial rules.  n192

   Third, the MCCJC seeks to aggressively change its risk-needs management of
its pretrial population. Currently, Milwaukee's bail hearings are done in an ad
hoc fashion where decisions are made largely on the basis of the current charge,
the defendant's criminal history, and the judge's intuition and professional
judgment.  n193 The MCCJC has studied other jurisdictions' approaches to
pretrial decisions and has developed a new protocol for conducting a risk
assessment for each individual as he or she enters the criminal justice system.
n194 Based on the data and evidence from other jurisdictions, this protocol will
award points to a person based on factors such as the number of previous
criminal cases in which the person was involved, the person's record for
appearing in court in those cases, and whether he or she is employed or is a
primary caregiver.  n195 Depending on the number of points the person gets, he
or she will fall into one of four categories that represents the risk level
associated with that person under the protocol.  n196 This categorization will
then be considered against the nature of the crime the person allegedly
committed.  n197 Judges will be equipped with a grid that helps them determine
whether (and at what amount) to set bail and what conditions, if any, should be
placed on a defendant's release.  n198 The MCCJC envisions this type of informed
evidence-based decision-making  [*1235]  will ensure maximization of the various
pretrial supervision and detention options.  n199 In order to gauge whether it
has been successful with this program, the MCCJC has set a goal of increasing by
ten percent the number of successful diversions or deferred prosecutions and
saving a minimum of $ 350,000 in doing so by the end of 2013.  n200

   Finally, the MCJCC wants to adopt a "dosage-based" probation plan.  n201
Based on research demonstrating that probation services are unnecessary after a
certain period of time, Milwaukee seeks to begin a pilot program that provides
early termination of probation for probationers who accomplish certain
risk-reducing objectives.  n202 The MCCJC will do so by creating a program based
on evidence from this research, developing a profile of the type of probationer
that might be successful in such a program, tracking the group, and comparing it
to other probationers to test the efficacy of the program.  n203 Probation,
then, would be terminated early once the offender received sufficient treatment
as defined by this program. To measure its success with this plan, the MCCJC has
set a goal to be able to prove by the end of 2013 that Milwaukee can cut
probation costs and reduce recidivism by a minimum of fifty percent.  n204

   In these regards, Milwaukee seeks to not just be tough on crime, but also be
"smart" on crime.  n205 For example, twenty-six percemt of those in Milwaukee
County jails awaiting trial have bail set at $ 500 or less, but they cannot
afford to pay it to be released.  n206 However, it costs Milwaukee $ 141 per
person per night to keep these individuals in jail.  n207 Moreover, and perhaps
more importantly, the evidence  [*1236]  collected by the MCCJC demonstrates
that these individuals would not pose even a moderate risk to the community if
released--as demonstrated by their incredibly low bail.  n208 This problem
demonstrates economic inefficiencies in the current system that do not protect
the community from any meaningful risk. The aforementioned reforms in pretrial
decision-making attempt to create a "smarter" criminal justice system in
Milwaukee based on evidence that informs those in the system as to how to treat,
on the one hand, the large majority of cases that involve low-level,
non-dangerous offenders and, on the other hand, those that involve violent or
dangerous defendants.  n209 In this regard, the MCCJC endeavors to protect the
public, but make sensible, cost-effective, and evidence-based decisions
regarding those offenders who do not pose a meaningful risk to the community and
who have a high likelihood of reform through various interventions. In doing so,
Milwaukee strives to stay consistent with the broken windows approach to
community policing, while also grappling with the financial realities it faces.

   VIII. CONCLUSION

   Will the Great Recession mark the beginning of the end of community policing
and the broken windows theory? It is highly unlikely. On the other hand, there
is no doubt that the financial and budgetary realities that cities and police
departments currently face--and may face for some time--pose challenges to
continuing a broken windows theory approach to community policing in most
localities. While some of the non-essential, cost-cutting measures may help
maintain a good portion of the police and criminal justice infrastructure
necessary to continue this approach in some communities, the reality is that
most cities are experiencing deep  [*1237]  enough cuts in their officer ranks,
non-officer personnel, and other resources that some impact will occur. Police
departments may have to do more with less, but they may also have to determine
that certain aspects of police services that they used to provide--e.g.,
responses to non-bodily injury traffic accidents, illegal parking, every burglar
alarm (whether it is confirmed that a burglar entered the home or building), and
the like--are no longer sustainable at current staffing and funding levels. An
interesting possibility to watch in the coming years is whether the police's
non-responsiveness to such low-level crimes and signs of disorder wind up
signaling a lack of social order in those communities that have adopted such
policies and whether that leads to a devolution in crime consistent with the
broken windows theory.

   These difficult economic times pose such a challenge for many communities
because the broken windows approach to community policing is a resource- and
time-intensive model for dealing with crime. While some question whether this
approach has contributed to--or is responsible for--the reduction in crime
during the past two decades, it is clear that the law enforcement community has
embraced this approach and is likely unwilling to abandon it unless absolutely
necessary.  n210 However, as detailed above, changes in police structuring and
practices have already begun, and they may continue for years into the future,
as the effects of the economic downturn are still impacting local governments
today.  n211 These tumultuous times may provide an opportunity for many
communities to rethink their broken windows theory approach to community
policing and restructure it in a manner that remains consistent with the theory,
but properly balances the economic realities that they  [*1238]  face. The
evidence-based decision-making approach in Milwaukee is by no means a singular
example of the types of creative and potentially more efficacious responses to
the criminal justice and social service needs in a community that attempt to
comport with tighter and smaller budgets. Indeed, it is one of many examples
that could become a trend given current circumstances. For in such challenges
may lie opportunity for police departments and the criminal justice and social
service systems more generally to innovate, become more efficient, and still
remain true to the broken windows approach to community policing.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesDisruptive
ConductLoitering, Panhandling & VagrancyElementsGovernmentsLocal
GovernmentsFinanceGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsPolice Power

FOOTNOTES:





n1  George L. Kelling & James Q. Wilson, Broken Windows, THE ATLANTIC, Mar.
1982, available at
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/4465/.





n2  For the purposes of this article, the term "Great Recession" will refer to
the significant economic downturn that affected the United States and global
economies beginning in 2007. See generally Catherine Rampell, "Great Recession":
A Brief Etymology, N.Y. TIMES (Mar. 11, 2009, 5:39 PM),
http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/03/11/great-recession-a-brief-etymology/
(detailing the etymology of the term "Great Recession").





n3  In this Article, I use the terms local governments, cities, and localities
interchangeably to refer to local government entities.





n4  Sarah E. Waldeck, Cops, Community Policing, and the Social Norms Approach to
Crime Control: Should One Make Us More Comfortable with the Others?, 34 GA. L.
REV. 1253, 1254-55 (2000). Community policing is oftentimes linked with
community prosecution, which is a newer philosophy of prosecution that seeks to
redefine the role of the prosecutor in the criminal justice system from merely
punishing crimes to also helping prevent them. See M. Elaine Nugent-Borakove &
Patricia L. Fanflik, Community Prosecution, Rhetoric or Reality?, in THE
CHANGING ROLE OF THE AMERICAN PROSECUTOR 211-12 (John L. Worrall & M. Elaine
Nugent-Borakove eds., 2008). While a more in-depth analysis of community
prosecution is outside of the scope of this Article, this recognition of the
link between community policing and community prosecution will be helpful for
the various issues explored in this Article.





n5  Community Policing Defined, COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES, U.S. DEP'T
OF JUSTICE, http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/default.asp?item=36 (last visited Nov. 12,
2011). The United States Department of Justice formed the Office of Community
Oriented Policing Services in 1994--pursuant to the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994--to encourage and fund local government community
policing programs. See Tracey L. Meares, Praying for Community Policing , 90
CALIF. L. REV. 1593, 1596 (2002).





n6  See Waldeck, supra note 4, at 1254.





n7  See James Forman, Jr., Community Policing and Youth as Assets, 95 J. CRIM.
L. & CRIMINOLOGY 1, 4-5 (2004).





n8  Bret D. Asbury, Anti-Snitching Norms and Community Loyalty, 89 OR. L. REV.
1257, 1307 (2011).





n9  See Forman, Jr., supra note 7, at 4.





n10  Id. at 5.





n11  Id. at 6.





n12  See id. at 4-5.





n13  Michael D. Reisig, Community and Problem-Oriented Policing, 39 CRIME &
JUST. 1, 5 (2010). The traditional regimented and hierarchical decision-making
and supervisory practices are also loosened to allow the beat officer to
creatively solve problems that he experiences in the community. Id. at 6.





n14  See Kami Chavis Simmons, New Governance and the "New Paradigm" of Police
Accountability: A Democratic Approach to Police Reform, 59 CATH. U. L. REV. 373,
420 (2010).





n15  See Alafair S. Burke, Unpacking New Policing: Confessions of a Former
Neighborhood District Attorney, 78 WASH. U. L. REV. 985, 986 (2003). But see
David Thacher, Conflicting Values in Community Policing, 35 LAW & SOC'Y REV.
765, 766-69 (2001) (noting that police and community values may not always be
compatible and, in fact, may actually be at odds).





n16  See Reisig, supra note 12, at 5-6.





n17  See Reenah L. Kim, Note, Legitimizing Community Consent to Local Policing:
The Need for Democratically Negotiated Community Representation on Civilian
Advisory Boards, 36 HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 461, 480-81 (2001). Problem-oriented
policing involves police identifying and understanding problems facing their
community and crafting and executing a solution to these problems--those that
cause residents, businesses, and others to call the police for service and
assistance. Reisig, supra note 12, at 5-6. This approach has been characterized
by four basic stages: scanning (where police endeavor to identify and define the
problem), analysis (where police seek to understand the causes and magnitude of
the problem), response (where police attempt to devise an alternative approach
to the current one that has proved ineffective), and assessment (where police
determine the efficacy of the approach and any alterations necessary to improve
future responses). Id. at 7-8. While community policing and problem-oriented
policing are conceptually linked--and, indeed, many police departments embrace
them as interconnected--it is worth noting that problem-oriented policing does
not emphasize citizen involvement and collaboration as much as community
policing. Id. at 9.





n18  See infra Part VII and accompanying notes.





n19  See Nicole Stelle Garnett, The Order-Maintenance Agenda as Land Use Policy,
24 NOTRE DAME J.L. ETHICS & PUB. POL'Y 131, 132-33 (2010).





n20  George L. Kelling & James Q. Wilson, Broken Windows, THE ATLANTIC, Mar.
1982, available at
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/4465/.





n21  Id.





n22  Id.





n23  Id. This point underscores a lesser-known foundational premise of the
broken windows theory--that is, that people do consider disorder when making a
judgment about how safe their neighborhood is.





n24  Id.





n25  Id. The "broken windows" moniker derived from an experiment conducted by
Philip Zimbardo, where he left a car sitting in the Bronx in New York City, New
York, and another in Palo Alto, California. Id. The Bronx, at the time, was
filled with disorder and crime, and the car was vandalized within ten minutes.
The car left in Palo Alto--an affluent community with low crime and minimal
disorder--was left untouched for more than a week until Zimbardo broke one of
its windows with a sledgehammer. Within hours of Zimbardo doing so, the car was
entirely ruined by others. Id. A similar metaphor is an abandoned manufacturing
plant building that remains untouched until a window is broken, which triggers
more windows being broken, followed by vandalism and other crimes, and
eventually the building being burned to the ground. Both metaphorical examples
serve to demonstrate the theory that even in an orderly neighborhood, once there
are visible signs of acceptance of disorder, further disorder and greater crime
will inevitably follow.





n26  See Dan M. Kahan, Reciprocity, Collective Action, and Community Policing,
90 CALIF. L. REV. 1513, 1528 (2002).





n27  Id.





n28  See id.





n29  See Robert J. Sampson & Jacqueline Cohen, Deterrent Effects of the Police
on Crime: A Replication and Theoretical Extension, 22 LAW & SOC'Y REV. 163, 165
(1988).





n30  Dan M. Kahan, Social Influence, Social Meaning, and Deterrence, 83 VA. L.
REV. 349, 350 (1997).





n31  Id. at 355-57. What further compounds this problem is that those who do not
engage in criminal activity will eventually leave the community, thus eroding
some of the positive social influence possibilities in the neighborhood. Id. at
371.





n32  See Kelling & Wilson, supra note 20.





n33  See id.





n34  See id.





n35  See id.





n36  See George L. Kelling & William J. Bratton, Declining Crime Rates:
Insiders' Views of the New York City Story, 88 J. CRIM. L & CRIMINOLOGY 1217,
1219 (1998). Law-abiding citizens withdraw by either moving to a different
locality--if they have the resources to do so--or by avoiding the streets as
much as possible. In either case, the absence of such law-abiding community
stakeholders increases the concentration of criminals in the area and takes away
a mediating presence--the law-abiding citizens themselves--that might help deter
crime. See Kahan, supra note 26, at 1528.





n37  See Josh Bowers, Legal Guilt, Normative Innocence, and the Equitable
Decision Not to Prosecute, 110 COLUM. L. REV. 1655, 1693 (2010). Interestingly,
this strategy finds police departments investing fewer resources in the areas of
serious crimes--murder, armed robbery, etc.--and channeling more of their
resources into targeting the lower-level, disorderly misconduct. See Kahan,
supra note 26, at 1527.





n38  See Kahan, supra note 26, at 1528.





n39  See WESLEY G. SKOGAN, DISORDER AND DECLINE 51 (1990).





n40  See Robert J. Sampson & Stephen W. Raudenbush, Systematic Social
Observation of Public Space: A New Look at Disorder in Urban Neighborhoods, 105
AM. J. SOC. 603, 608 (1999).





n41  William J. Bratton, The New York City Police Department's Civil Enforcement
of Quality-of-Life Crimes, 3 J.L. & POL'Y 447, 448 (1995).





n42  See Risa L. Goluboff, Dispatch from the Supreme Court Archives: Vagrancy,
Abortion, and What the Links Between Them Reveal About the History of
Fundamental Rights, 62 STAN. L. REV. 1361, 1374 (2010).





n43  See Bratton, supra note 41, at 452-63. Nuisance abatement laws allow police
to close locations where crimes occur, thus removing criminal activity from that
area. Forfeiture laws allow the police to seize cars used in soliciting
prostitutes, effecting a drug deal, or even playing music too loud. See id.





n44  Kahan, supra note 30, at 355-57.





n45  See id. at 365.





n46  K. Babe Howell, Broken Lives from Broken Windows, 33 N.Y.U. REV. L. & SOC.
CHANGE 271, 279 (2009).





n47  See Kelling & Wilson, supra note 20.





n48  See Reisig, supra note 13, at 26-27.





n49  See id. at 27-29.





n50  See Waldeck, supra note 4, at 1275 (noting that while many approaches to
broken windows policing used arrest as a last resort, arrest was still heavily
relied upon by various police departments as part of their community policing
approaches).





n51  See Howell, supra note 46, at 283-90, 307-14.





n52  See id. at 292.





n53  See id. at 307. Even setting aside the issue of overtime pay, the choice to
have police officers processing such arrests instead of being out in the
community also poses a cost to the police department and the community. See id.





n54  See id. at 292.





n55  See id. at 296.





n56  See Howell, supra note 46, at 297.





n57  See id. at 302.





n58  See id. at 306-07.





n59  See generally DANIEL R. MANDELKER ET AL., STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT IN A
FEDERAL SYSTEM 282-518 (2010).





n60  See Laurie Reynolds, Taxes, Fees, Assessments, Dues, and the "Get What You
Pay for" Model of Local Government, 56 FLA. L. REV. 373, 383 (2004).





n61  See Richard Briffault, Home Rule for the Twenty-First Century, 36 URB. LAW.
253, 269 (2004).





n62  See Amnon Lehavi, Intergovernmental Liability Rules, 92 VA. L. REV. 929,
949 (2006).





n63  See Peter W. Salsich, Jr., Toward a Policy of Heterogeneity: Overcoming a
Long History of Socioeconomic Segregation in Housing, 42 WAKE FOREST L. REV.
459, 484 (2007).





n64  See MANDELKER, supra note 59, at 461-63.





n65  See Reynolds, supra note 60, at 397 (providing an overview of local
government special assessments).





n66  See id. at 407-24 (detailing the various types of local government fees).





n67  See Sean Carey, Note, Post-Davis Conduit Bonds: At the Intersection of the
Dormant Commerce Clause and Municipal Debt, 78 FORDHAM L. REV. 121, 125-26
(2009).





n68  See William Selway, U.S. Federal Budget Cuts to Hit Cash-Strapped Cities,
Transit, BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK (Apr. 12, 2011, 1:26 PM),
http://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-federal-budget-cuts-to-hit-cash-
strapped-cities-transit.html.





n69  See, e.g., Howard Wilkinson, Ohioans Embrace New Reality, CINCINNATI.COM
(July 2, 2011, 4:34 PM),
http://news.cincinnati.com/article/20110702/NEWS0108/107030320/Ohioans-embrace-n
ew-reality (detailing the significant cuts in state aid to local governments in
Ohio and the likely fallout from the cuts).





n70  See Kelly Nolan, Fall in Property-Tax Revenue Squeezes Cities, WALL ST. J.,
July 16, 2011,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304521304576447940532071536.html
(explaining the difficulties cities are facing from decreased tax revenues).





n71  See Andrew Blankstein & Robert Faturechi, L.A. County Jails May Be Out of
Room Next Month, L.A. TIMES, Nov. 11, 2011,
http://www.latimes.com/news/local/la-me-jails-release-20111111,0,4128740.story.





n72  See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, IS THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN FUNDAMENTALLY
CHANGING HOW WE POLICE? 1 (2010), available at
http://www.policeforum.org/library/critical-issuesin-policing-series/Econdowntur
naffectpolicing12.10 .pdf.





n73  See id.





n74  See id.





n75  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE, THE IMPACT OF
THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN ON AMERICAN POLICE AGENCIES 10-11 (2011), available at
http://cops.usdoj.gov/Publications/e101113406_Economic%20Impact.pdf (citing the
International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) study Policing in the 21st
Century: Preliminary Survey Results (2010)). These cuts were already on top of
budget cuts from previous years during the current economic downturn. See id.





n76  See id. at 11 (citing an unpublished study by the Major City Chiefs
Association entitled Police Economic Challenges Survey Results (2011)).





n77  See id. at 13. In addition, many police departments also experienced cuts
in overtime funding and mandatory furlough days for police officers and other
law enforcement personnel. See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, supra note 72, at 1.





n78  See Kevin Johnson & David Jackson, Economy Costing 12,000 Cops Their Jobs,
CHI. SUNTIMES, Oct. 25, 2011, at 17, available at 2011 WLNR 21864539.





n79  See Crime-Ridden Camden, N.J., Cuts Police Force Nearly in Half, CNN.COM
(Jan. 18, 2011),
http://articles.cnn.com/2011-01-18/us/new.jersey.layoffs_1_police-force-police-o
fficers-public-safety?_s=PM:US.





n80  See Joe Swickard & Dawson Bell, Flint Official: National Guard Not an
Option to Fix Violence, DETROIT FREE PRESS, May 27, 2011, available at 2010 WLNR
10896407.





n81  See Paterson Police Plan to Protest Layoffs of 125 Officers, NJ.COM (Apr.
18, 2011, 7:55 AM),
http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2011/04/paterson_police_plan_to_protes.html.





n82  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 35.





n83  See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, supra note 72, at 2.





n84  See Press Release, City of Detroit Police Dep't, Verified Response Will
Reduce 911 Calls for False Alarms (Aug. 15, 2011), available at
http://www.securitysales.com/files/DPD-Verified-Response-Press-release.doc
(noting that Salt Lake City, Utah; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Aurora, Colorado;
Fremont, California; and Madison, Wisconsin also have adopted this policy).





n85  See John Woolfolk, San Jose Cops Unveil Plan to Cut Services to Businesses
and Residents, OAKLAND TRIB., Aug. 12, 2011, available at 2011 WLNR 16050912.





n86  See id. The SJPD also implemented cuts to its gang-reduction officers in
city schools and drastically reduced the number of flight hours of the police
helicopter in an attempt to close budget deficits. See id.





n87  See id. The cities of Boston, Massachusetts; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and San
Diego, California, have all entirely cut their horse-mounted police forces. See
Jeff Martin, Mounted Police Fading in Sunset?, USA TODAY (Feb. 10, 2010, 12:48
PM), http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2010-02-11-mounted-police_N.htm. There
are only one hundred existing horse-mounted police units in the country, down
from nearly three hundred just ten years ago. See id.





n88  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 20. The City of
Sacramento, California, eliminated its entire narcotics and gangs units due to
budget cuts. See id. at 22. Other cities are seeking to cut their crossing guard
programs to help close budget gaps. See Anna Carrera, SP Police May Cut Crossing
Guard Program, WKOW.COM (Oct. 7, 2011, 7:21 AM),
http://www.wkow.com/story/15645505/sp-police-may-cut-crossing-guard-program
(noting a similar plan in Stevens Point, Wisconsin); Anne Jungen & Patrick B.
Anderson, Police Department Wants to Cut Crossing Guard Program to Save Money,
LA CROSSE TRIB. (Sept. 15, 2011, 12:00 AM),
http://lacrossetribune.com/news/local/article_ed309876-df52-11e0-b330-001cc4c002
e0.html (explaining such a proposal in La Crosse, Wisconsin).





n89  See Police Budget Cuts Force Victims to Solve Property Crimes on Their Own,
KREM.COM (July 14, 2011, 7:17 PM),
http://www.krem.com/news/local/Police-budget-cuts-force-victims-to-solve-propert
y-crimes-on-their-own-125611808.html (detailing how Beloit, Wisconsin, is making
such cuts due to budget constraints).





n90  See Kevin Johnson, Cutbacks Force Police to Curtail Calls for Some Crimes,
USA TODAY (Aug. 25, 2011, 2:19AM),
http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2010-08-25-1Anresponsecops25_ST_N.htm
(noting such a move by Oakland, California; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and Norton,
Massachusetts).





n91  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 22.





n92  See Marco Caffuzzi, Note, Private Police and Personal Privacy: Who's
Guarding the Guards?, 40 N.Y.L. SCH. L. REV. 225, 226-29 (1995) (commenting on
the rise in private policing during the 1990s).





n93  See Lucy Gerold, Downtown Security Collaborative, POLICE CHIEF MAG., July
2006, available at
http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuseaction=display&article
_id=930&issue_id=72006.





n94  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 24.





n95  See Bobby White, Cash-Strapped Cities Try Private Guards Over Police, WALL
ST. J., Apr. 21, 2009, at A4,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124027127337237011.html.





n96  See Alan Gomez, Civilians Help with Minor Police Duties, USA TODAY (Mar.
31, 2008, 12:01 AM),
http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2008-03-30-civiliancops_N.htm.





n97  See Nathan Gonzalez, Mesa Civilian Investigators Save Money, Create Rapport
with Public, ARIZ. REPUBLIC (July 19, 2010, 9:20 AM),
http://www.azcentral.com/community/mesa/articles/2010/07/19/20100719mesa-civilia
n-police-investigators0717.html. The San Francisco Police Department also
started a civilian investigation unit in 2010. See San Francisco PD Tries Out
Civilian Investigators (NPR radio broadcast Aug. 2, 2010), available at
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128923342.





n98  See Gonzalez, supra note 97.





n99  See Kristen Mack, Emanuel, McCarthy Shift 138 Officers from Jail Lockups to
Beat Patrol, CHI. TRIB., Oct. 6, 2011,
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2011-10-06/news/chi-emanuel-mccarthy-shift-13
8-officers-from-jail-lockups-to-beat-patrol-20111006_1_mayor-rahm-emanuel-office
rs-on-city-streets-patrol.





n100  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 23 (noting that the
civilianization program in San Francisco saves up to $ 40,000 per civilian in
training, equipment, and benefit costs compared to hiring a police officer for
the position). Some cities have also used volunteers to do clerical work and to
serve as reserve officers to help save money. See id. at 24-25.





n101  See, e.g., Roberto Acosta, Police Chiefs in Burton and Grand Blanc
Township Talk About Consolidation, FLINT J. (July 30, 2011, 12:00 PM),
http://www.mlive.com/news/flint/index.ssf/2011/07/police_chiefs_in_burton_and_gr
.html (discussing the possible consolidation of two townships); Ken Carlson,
Tepid Response Meets Idea to Combine Modesto Police, County Sheriff, MODESTO BEE
(Apr. 7, 2010),
http://www.modbee.com/2011/04/06/1633647/merge-police-sheriff.html (detailing a
proposed merger of the Modesto Police Department and the Stanislaus County
Sheriff's Department). See also CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75,
at 30 (noting other consolidation arrangements in various localities).





n102  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 29 (citing the 2011
National Survey of County Elected Officials).





n103  See, e.g., Katie Dunn, Hoschton Dissolves Police Department to Save Money,
GAINESVILLE TIMES, Jan. 14, 2010,
http://www.gainesvilletimes.com/archives/28321/ (detailing the defunding of the
City of Hoschton, Florida's police department and the contract with the Jackson
County Sheriff's Office for police service); Ashley McNamee, Roanoke Police
Department Disbanded, CINEWSNOW.COM (July 15, 2010, 11:55 AM),
http://www.cinewsnow.com/news/local/46678142.html (noting that the village of
Roanoke, Illinois, disbanded its police department and contracted with the
Woodford County Sheriff's Department for police services).





n104  See Frank Main, Chicago Police Department Cracks Down on Sick Leave Abuse,
CHI. SUNTIMES (Sept. 6, 2011, 10:02 PM),
http://www.suntimes.com/news/crime/7506385-418/chicago-police-department-cracks-
down-on-sick-leave-abuse.html; Charles Thomas, City May Close Some Police
Stations to Save Money, ABC 7 NEWS (Sept. 19, 2011),
http://abclocal.go.com/wls/story?section=news/local&id=8359789.





n105  See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, supra note 72, at 2.





n106  See Matt Cecil, The Costs of Living, In Jail, OR. CAPITAL NEWS (July 26,
2011), http://oregoncapitolnews.com/blog/2011/07/26/the-cost-of-living-in-jail/.





n107  See, e.g., Mark Wiggins, McLennan County's Jail Doctor Outlines Ambitious
Plan for Cuts, KXXV.COM (Jan. 14, 2011, 5:11 PM),
http://www.kxxv.com/story/13846656/mclennan-countys-jail-doc-outlines-ambitious-
plans-for-savings?redirected=true (noting McLennan County's attempt to save
money on medical costs); see also OFFICE OF THE N.Y. STATE COMPTROLLER,
COST-SAVING AND COST-CONTAINMENT STRATEGIES FOR NEW YORK STATE'S LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS 13 (June 2009),
http://www.osc.state.ny.us/localgov/pubs/research/costsavingcontainment.pdf
(noting and explaining the use of telemedicine--the practice of treating inmates
over a closed-circuit Internet video or data feed--by many New York localities
to save money on medical services).





n108  See, e.g., Steve Schultze, Jail Health Care Change Announced, JSONLINE
(Sept. 28, 2011), http://www.jsonline.com/news/milwaukee/130731963.html
(explaining Milwaukee County's privatizing of its jail medical services).





n109  See OFFICE OF THE N.Y. STATE COMPTROLLER, supra note 106, at 12.





n110  Id.





n111  See Steven Elbow, Hot Breakfast Nixed for Sauk County Inmates, CAP TIMES
(Jan. 28, 2011, 7:00 AM),
http://host.madison.com/ct/news/local/crime_and_courts/blog/article_6e6fbb14-2a4
b-11e0-bf08-001cc4c002e0.html. The County of Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, no
longer provides milk with every meal, but rather gives inmates a glass of water
with a packet of fruit punch powder for lunch and dinner--saving the county
approximately $ 16,000 per year. See Krista Hostetler, Chippewa County Jail
Reducing Milk Intake for Inmates, WQOW.COM (Mar. 29, 2011, 7:17 PM),
http://www.wqow.com/Global/story.asp?S=14345401.





n112  Colleen Jenkins, Florida Jail Ends Free Underwear for Jail Costs, REUTERS
(July 15, 2011, 11:27 AM),
http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/15/us-florida-jail-underwear-idUSTRE76E3X
S20110715.





n113  See Lisa Cornwell, Program Gives Inmates Green Thumbs, COLUMBUS DISPATCH
(Aug. 1, 2011, 5:51 AM),
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/local/2011/08/01/program-gives-inmates-g
reen-thumbs.html.





n114  See Carol Demare, Jail Food Goes Private in Cost Test, TIMESUNION.COM
(Nov. 12, 2010, 12:00 AM),
http://www.timesunion.com/local/article/Jail-food-goes-private-in-cost-test-8094
37.php (explaining the privatization of food service at the Albany County Jail).





n115  See Patrick George, Hays Sheriff Puts Inmates to Work at Jail to Save
Money, STATESMAN.COM (Jan. 30, 2011, 8:49 PM),
http://www.statesman.com/news/local/hays-sheriff-puts-inmates-to-work-at-jail-12
20705.html.





n116  See Sheriff: Jail Mail Policy Working Well, BARROW J. (Oct. 2, 2010),
http://www.barrowjournal.com/archives/3838-Sheriff-Jail-mail-policy-working-well
.html.





n117  See, e.g., Jail Work Release Program Expands in Brown County, WTVB.COM
(Aug. 24, 2011, 10:39 AM),
http://wtvbam.com/news/articles/2011/aug/24/jail-work-release-program-expands-in
-brown-county/ (noting the general labor that inmates perform in Brown County,
Wisconsin); Joe Moszczynski, Requests for N.J. Inmate Labor Increase as
Cash-Strapped Towns Look to Cut Costs, STAR-LEDGER (Mar. 14, 2011, 9:45 PM),
http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2011/03/requests_for_nj_inmate_labor_i.html
(detailing the Sheriff's Work Assistance Program (SWAP) in several New Jersey
counties).





n118  See Domingo Ramirez Jr., Four Northeast Tarrant Cities to Share Jail,
Communications Center, STAR-TELEGRAM.COM (Sept. 25, 2011),
http://www.startelegram.com/2011/09/25/vtouch/3395826_four-northeast-tarrant-cit
ies.html (detailing how the cities of North Richland Hills, Richland Hills,
Halthom, and Watauga agreed to a consolidation plan for their jails, and how
these communities expect to save from $ 260,000 to $ 335,000 with this move).





n119  See Thelma Sardin, Emanuel Unveils Crime Plan, WKLY. CITIZEN (Jan. 12,
2011),
http://www.thechicagocitizen.com/community-focus/emanuel-unveils-crime-plan/.
Questions have been raised regarding whether Illinois' TIF statute would allow
for such a reallocation of TIF funds. For general information regarding the TIF
districts, funding, and issues surrounding them, see generally Richard
Briffault, The Most Popular Tool: Tax Increment Financing and the Political
Economy of Local Government, 77 U. CHI. L. REV. 65 (2010).





n120  See Mark Ambrogi, Lions Fish Fry Nets $ 3,400, INDYSTAR.COM (Sept. 15,
2010),
http://www.indystar.com/article/20100916/LOCAL0103/9160395/Lions-fish-fry-nets-3
-400 (noting that the County of Hamilton, Ohio, receives money from the
Westfield Lions Club's fish fry and Texas Hold 'Em Poker fundraiser to pay for
inmate reading glasses); Deena Yellin, Budget Cuts Force N.J. Police Departments
to Get Creative, HERALD NEWS (Sept. 21, 2011),
http://www.lawofficer.com/article/news/budget-cuts-force-nj-police-de
(explaining how the Mahwah Police Department has used various fundraising
activities, including a fashion show, to raise money to help meet its budget).





n121  See Christina Hall, Jail Inmates Get Billed for Stay--But Few Pay, DETROIT
FREE PRESS, Feb. 7, 2011, at A1, available at 2011 WLNR 2407421 (noting the
counties in Michigan); Kathleen Miles, Riverside Charges Inmates for Stays in
"Prison Hotels", HUFFINGTON POST (Nov. 4, 2011, 1:46 AM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/03/riverside-charges-inmates_n_1075129.htm
l (noting the billing system in Riverside County); Wood County to Start Charging
Inmates for Jail Stays, JSONLINE (Aug. 17, 2011),
http://www.jsonline.com/news/wisconsin/127934438.html (noting the billing system
in Wood County).





n122  See Jenkins, supra note 112.





n123  See Miles, supra note 121. To collect the legal fees, the county intends
to place a lien against the inmate's personal property and then collect the
money when that property is sold. Id.





n124  See, e.g., Cecil, supra note 106 (explaining that Mutnomah County, Oregon,
spends approximately $ 127 per day to house the average inmate); Leon Fooksman &
Rachael Joyner, Remedies Sought for Crowded Jail: Costs of Incarceration Rising
Fast, SUNSENTINEL.COM (Jan. 10, 2008),
http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2008-01-10/news/0801100032_1_jail-inmate-jail-p
opulation-fights (noting that Palm Beach County, Florida, spends almost $ 100
per day to house an inmate).





n125  See, e.g., Michael Miller, Southern New Jersey Jail Inmates Serving More
Sentences at Home, Easing Overcrowding and Saving Counties Money, PRESS OF
ATLANTIC CITY (Feb. 13, 2011, 7:47 PM),
http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/news/press/atlantic/southern-new-jersey-jail-
inmates-serving-more-sentences-at-home/article_2e873422-37d5-11e0-8192-001cc4c03
286.html (detailing the use of electronic monitoring in Atlantic City, New
Jersey, for its day-reporting program, home detentions, and pretrial release of
suspects).





n126  See Amanda Boardman, For Criminals, No Place Like Home, DALLASNEWS.COM
(Aug. 23, 2010, 2:27 AM),
http://www.dallasnews.com/news/crime/headlines/20100823-Dallas-County-s-alternat
ive-sentencing-program-5942.ece (detailing the alternative sentencing plan in
Dallas County, Texas); see also Kayla Anderson, County Resumes Controversial
House Arrest Program, KOB.COM (Mar. 31, 2011, 9:49 PM),
http://www.kob.com/article/stories/S2045476.shtml (explaining the house arrest
program in Bernalillo County, New Mexico, in which inmates are on an ankle
monitoring system instead of behind bars); Kathy Coffta Sims, Bracelets that
Track Criminals, THE POST-STANDARD (Syracuse, NY), Feb. 12, 2008, at B1 (noting
a similar program in Madison County, New York).





n127  See Ofelia Madrid, Electronic Monitoring Saves Money, ARIZ. REPUBLIC (Nov.
23, 2010, 12:00 AM),
http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/local/articles/2010/11/23/20101123nehou
searrest1123.html (detailing Scottsdale's cost savings); Number of County
Criminal Suspects on Electronic Monitoring Surges, THEDOINGSOAKBROOK (Oct. 6,
2011, 9:10AM),
http://oakbrook.suntimes.com/news/8064224-418/number-of-county-criminal-suspects
-on-electronic-monitoring-surges.html (noting the cost savings for Cook County,
Illinois). Electronic monitoring in drunk driving cases has become more
prevalent because of such cost savings. See, e.g., Matthew Kemeny, Counties Turn
to Electronic Monitoring to Cut Costs, Curb Overcrowding in Prisons,
PENNLIVE.COM (Feb. 24, 2010, 7:17 PM),
http://www.pennlive.com/midstate/index.ssf/2010/02/counties_turn_to_electronic_m
o.html (detailing the use of electronic monitoring for drunk driving cases in
Perry County, Pennsylvania); Jennifer Sullivan, Seattle Courts to Trade Jail for
Ankle Bracelets, SEATTLE TIMES (May 10, 2011, 10:02 PM),
http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2015017712_duibracelet11m.html
(noting the Seattle Municipal Court's use of electronic monitoring). Other
counties have saved even more money by moving to an electronic monitoring system
for low-level offenders by charging the criminal or the accused for most, if not
all, of the electronic monitoring costs. See, e.g., Boardman, supra note 126
(explaining that those participating in the electronic monitoring program pay
for ninety percent of the costs).





n128  See Boardman, supra note 126.





n129  Id.





n130  See, e.g., SEDGWICK CNTY. PUB. SAFETY, WORK RELEASE PROGRAM 1 (June 2010),
http://www.sedgwickcounty.org/Criminal_Justice/Fact%20Sheets/Work%20Release%20Pr
ogram.pdf (detailing the work release program in Sedgwick County, Kansas).





n131  Id.





n132  See Miller, supra note 125. This work release program in Cape May County,
New Jersey, saved taxpayers $ 357,964 through 29,032 hours of work by the
inmates in 2010. Id.





n133  See Tom Barnes, Prison Head: Release Short-Term State Inmates to Halfway
Houses, POST-GAZETTE.COM (Mar. 2, 2010, 11:53 AM),
http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/10061/1039687-100.stm. Other counties have dealt
with jail overcrowding and the need for cost control by simply releasing
nonviolent criminals from jail earlier than their scheduled release date. See
Don Hamilton, County: Have Jail, Will Share, PORTLAND TRIB. (Feb. 4, 2005),
http://www.portlandtribune.com/news/story.php?story_id=28215 (noting how
Multnomah County, Oregon has been forced to release some inmates that it would
rather keep imprisoned, due to financial constraints). Overcrowding and cost
control pressures have forced some counties to rely on citations as sole
punitive measures for low-level criminal acts. See, e.g., Michelle Hillen, Rx
for Jail Crunch: More State Money, ARK. DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE, Aug. 24, 2008, at 19,
available at
http://www.arkansasonline.com/news/2008/aug/24/rx-jail-crunch-more-state-money-2
0080824/?subscriber-arkansas (noting that Pulaski County, Arkansas, started
giving citations to nonviolent offenders instead of jail time). To be sure, this
is one approach that local governments could take to save money yet still remain
consistent to the principles of the broken windows approach to community
policing: that is, to decriminalize certain low-level, order maintenance
offenses. See Howell, supra note 46, at 316-18. Cities could create meaningful
civil penalties, such as fines, to address and discourage such undesirable
behavior. See id. at 317. This potential option should not be mistaken as an
acceptance of such disorder or of moving away from the social norms-based
approach that community policing embraces. Rather, it could be seen as a
conscious effort to enforce such community norms in a manner that is less
expensive but may be as effective. In decriminalizing such offenses, local
governments "open[] up possibilities for re-integrative and non-adversarial
solutions that can strengthen rather than undermine social order." Id. It may
also reduce the costs--financial and otherwise--to the violator and the criminal
justice system as detailed above. In these regards, decriminalization of certain
offenses may save money while remaining true to the tenets of the broken windows
theory and community policing more generally.





n134  See Richard F. Belisle, Day Reporting Center Aims to Save Counties Jail
Money, HERALD-MAIL.COM (Apr. 19, 2009),
http://articles.herald-mail.com/2009-04-19/news/25164957_1_jail-counties-prisone
rs (detailing the day reporting centers established in 2009 by the counties of
Berkeley and Jefferson in West Virginia).





n135  See id.





n136  See id. DeKalb County, Georgia, instituted a similar diversion program for
first-time offenders charged with shoplifting, disorderly conduct, and other
low-level offenses. If the offenders successfully complete the diversion
program, they can avoid jail time and save the county money through the
attendant reduced inmate costs. Daniel Beauregard, DeKalb Solicitor-General
Kicks Off New Pre-Trial Diversion Program, CHAMPION NEWSPAPER (Nov. 4, 2011),
http://www.championnewspaper.com/news/articles/1158dekalb-solicitor-general-kick
s-off-new-pretrial-diversion-program1158.html.





n137  See Eric J. Miller, Drugs, Courts, and the New Penology, 20 STAN. L. &
POL'Y REV. 417, 420-24 (2009).





n138  Minnesota Program Gets Recovering Substance Abusers Back to Work, 17
WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE ADVISOR 20 (Sept. 19, 2003).





n139  Id.





n140  Id.





n141  See id.





n142  See Joyce Wheeler, Witness for the Client: A Judge's Role in Increasing
Awareness in the Defendant, 57 ME. L. REV. 463, 466-67 (2005).





n143  See James Noonan, Napa Held Up as Example for Jail Strategies, NAPA VALLEY
REG. (Sept. 21, 2011, 6:17 PM),
http://napavalleyregister.com/news/local/napa-held-up-as-example-for-jailstrateg
ies/article_ba265284-e4b8-11e0-ab0e-001cc4c03286.html. Napa County adopted such
a matrix program in response to jail overcrowding and funding issues. See id.
Sedgwick County, Kansas, also adopted a matrix program called Metatomix, which
is "a multi-database search tool that provides authorized individuals the
capability to view historical and current information from many agencies about
individuals passing through the criminal justice system." SEDGWICK CNTY. PUB.
SAFETY, supra note 130, at 2. Metatomix allows officials to determine which
inmates would be best suited for incarceration alternatives such as drug courts,
day reporting centers, and mental health courts. See id.





n144  Noonan, supra note 143.





n145  Letter from Abdi Soltani, Exec. Director of ACLU of N. Cal., to Exec.
Comm. Members of the Cmty. Corrections P'ship (July 12, 2011),
http://www.aclunc.org/issues/criminal_justice/asset_upload_file541_10684.pdf.





n146  CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 26.





n147  Id.





n148  Id. at 27.





n149  Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y. TIMES (Aug.
15, 2011), http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n150  Id.





n151  Id. This model is similar to the CompStat model developed by the New York
City Police Department, but many argue that it is far more sophisticated because
it is forward-looking in nature, while CompStat is backward-looking. Id.





n152  Id.





n153  Id.





n154  See generally NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS, GETTING SMARTER ABOUT
SENTENCING: NCSC'S SENTENCING REFORM STUDY (2006), available at
http://www.ncsconline.org/d_research/Documents/Senten_GettingSmarter_SentencingR
eformSurvey_FinalPub.pdf. The NCSC began this project in 2006 with the support
of the Conference of Chief Justices and the Conference of State Court
Administrators. Id. at 2.





n155  Id. at 10.





n156  See CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., A FRAMEWORK FOR EVIDENCED-BASED
DECISION MAKING IN LOCAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS 2 (2010), available at
http://www.cepp.com/documents/EBDM%20Framework.pdf.





n157  Id.





n158  See Roger K. Warren, Evidence-Based Practices and State Sentencing Policy:
Ten Policy Initiatives to Reduce Recidivism, 82 IND. L.J. 1307, 1307 (2007).





n159  Evidence-based decision-making is sometimes linked to, or interchangeably
described as, evidence-based practices, Problem-Oriented Policing,
Intelligence-led Policing, or HotSpot policing. See Criminal Justice Policy
Research Inst., Crime Analysis, PORTLAND ST. U.: HARTSFIELD SCH. GOV'T,
http://pdx.edu/cjpri/crime-analysis (last visited March 26, 2012).





n160  See CRIME & JUSTICE INST., IMPLEMENTING EVIDENCE-BASED PRACTICE IN
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS: THE PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE INTERVENTION 2 (2004),
http://static.nicic.gov/Library/019342.pdf. For more information on
evidenced-based medicine, see generally STEFAN TIMMERMANS & MARC BERG, THE GOLD
STANDARD: THE CHALLENGE OF EVIDENCE-BASED MEDICINE AND STANDARDIZATION IN HEALTH
CARE 1 (2003).





n161  See CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 7. Not all
evidence has equal weight, of course, as the strength and validity will vary
depending on a number of factors, including methodology of the study. Id. at 42.
See also EDWARD T. JENNINGS, JR. & JEREMY L. HALL, EVIDENCE-BASED PRACTICE AND
THE USE OF INFORMATION IN STATE AGENCY DECISION-MAKING 8 (2009),
http://www.ifigr.org/workshop/spring09/jennings.pdf (listing a variety of
factors to consider when determining the strength of the evidence provided by
social science research).





n162  See URBAN INST., BEYOND IDEOLOGY, POLITICS, AND GUESSWORK: THE CASE FOR
EVIDENCE-BASED POLICY 1 (2008),
http://www.urban.org/UploadedPDF/901189_evidence-based.pdf. The solutions can be
judged by the various research and data related to categories such as increases
in public safety (including reduced recidivism, longer time periods between new
offenses for released offenders, fewer crimes from neighborhood "hotspots," and
the like); improved community wellness (fewer drug or alcohol accidents or
fatalities, fewer emergency room visits for crime-related injuries, and fewer
people going to jail or prison with mental health issues, to name but a few);
increased satisfaction with the criminal justice system (improvement in survey
responses, increased participation by victims, and the like); and improvements
in monetary and social costs of the criminal justice system (reduction in crime
rate, cost-savings for incarceration, and similar measurements). CTR. FOR
EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 22-24.





n163  See Alan J. Borsuk, Get Smart?, MARQ. LAW., Fall 2011, at 22,
http://law.marquette.edu/assets/marquette-lawyers/pdf/marquette-lawyer/2011-fall
/2011-fall-p20.pdf.





n164  See CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 6-7.





n165  Id. at 19.





n166  Id.





n167  See JOHN S. GOLDKAMP ET AL., COMMUNITY PROSECUTION STRATEGIES: MEASURING
IMPACT 7 (2002), https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/bja/192826.pdf.





n168  See Nugent-Borakove & Fanflik, supra note 4, at 223. Other interagency
coordination may well include schools, fire departments, health departments, and
other city agencies that can help address problems in the community. Id.





n169  Emanuel Outlines Crime-Fighting Plan, CBSCHICAGO.COM (Jan. 10, 2011, 6:58
AM),
http://chicago.cbslocal.com/2011/01/10/emanuel-outlines-crime-fighting-plan/.





n170  See CRIME & JUSTICE INST., supra note 160, at 2-3.





n171  See id. at 2.





n172  See, e.g., Michael M. O'Hear, Evidence-Based Decision Making: Where are
Defendants and Their Families?, LIFE SENTENCES BLOG (Mar. 20, 2011, 8:58 PM),
http://www.lifesentencesblog.com/?p=1870 (detailing costs imposed on defendants
and their families because of evidence-based decision-making); Michael M.
O'Hear, Some Doubts About "Evidence-Based" Decision Making in Criminal Justice,
LIFE SENTENCES BLOG (Feb. 2, 2011, 11:19 PM),
http://www.lifesentencesblog.com/?p=1471 (noting various concerns about
evidence-based decision-making).





n173  NAT'L INST. OF CORR., WHITE PAPER: INNOVATORS' GROUP VIDEO CONFERENCE # 1,
at 3 (2008),
http://evidence-basedmanagement.com/wpcontent/uploads/2011/11/innovators_group_w
hite_paper_1-5-09.pdf.





n174  Id. at 3-4.





n175  Id. at 5.





n176  Id.





n177  But see CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 2
(noting that the framework for evidence-based decision-making in local criminal
justice systems is not aimed at a onesize-fits-all approach, but rather a
broader framework with guiding principles that can be tailored to meet the needs
and structures of a particular locality's criminal justice system).





n178  NAT'L INST. OF CORR., supra note 173, at 4. This resistance may be
particularly acute because police departments and other governmental agencies
involved in the criminal justice system are accustomed to making decisions based
on accepted practices, instinct, and self-interest. Id.





n179  Id. Moreover, judges may resist such changes as they may view it as
curtailing their discretion and independence. See Borsuk, supra note 163, at 25
(noting that some judges in Milwaukee County have resisted evidence-based
decision-making because it might affect their latitude in sentencing and
independence in other areas where they traditionally have had great discretion).





n180  Steve Schultze, Milwaukee County Wins Federal Aid for Justice Programs,
JSONLINE (Aug. 10, 2011), http://www.jsonline.com/news/milwaukee/127464633.html.
The other two awardees are Eau Claire County, Wisconsin, and Mesa County,
Colorado. Id. For a copy of Eau Claire's application, see EAU CLAIRE CNTY.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COLLABORATING COUNCIL, EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION MAKING IN LOCAL
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS: PHASE III APPLICATION (2011),
http://www.co.eau-claire.wi.us/CountyDepartments/cjcc/docs/Eau_Claire_County_EBD
M_Phase_III_application.pdf.





n181  Borsuk, supra note 163, at 20. The Milwaukee County Community Justice
Council (MCCJC) was formed in 2007 and states its mission to be "to efficiently
and collaboratively coordinate services and to effectively allocate financial
resources to ensure crime reduction, victim support, offender accountability,
and restorative community-based programs." MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL
BYLAWS art. III, available at
http://www.milwaukee.gov/ImageLibrary/Groups/cjcouncil/byLaws.pdf. The various
stakeholders that founded the MCCJC--which include the County Executive,
District Attorney, Sheriff, and Chief Judge--did so as part of a settlement of
lawsuits regarding overcrowding in the county jails. Borsuk, supra note 163, at
20.





n182  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION MAKING IN
LOCAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS: PHASE III APPLICATION OF THE MILWAUKEE
COLLABORATIVE 1, 8 (2011),
http://www.publicpolicyforum.org/pdfs/EBDMMilwaukeeApplication.pdf.





n183  Borsuk, supra note 163, at 22.





n184  Full CJC Membership, GOMIL WAUKEE,
http://milwaukee.gov/cjc/CJCWholeCommittee.htm (last visited Nov. 30, 2011).





n185  See David A. Clarke Jr., Op-Ed, Let's Treat Criminals Like . . . Criminals
, JSONLINE (Feb. 19, 2011), http://www.jsonline.com/news/opinion/116508233.html
(Sheriff Clark, one of the Executive Committee members of the MCCJC, expressing
his opposition to some of the proposals put forth by the MCCJC); MILWAUKEE CNTY.
CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 181, at 4 and App. 111 (noting Sheriff Clark's
continued support for the work of the MCCJC and its pursuit to implement
evidence-based decision-making).





n186  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 8-9.





n187  Id. at 9.





n188  Id. at 13.





n189  Id. at 9.





n190  Id.





n191  Id. at 10.





n192  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 13.





n193  Id. at 10.





n194  See Borsuk, supra note 163, at 22.





n195  Id. at 24.





n196  Id.





n197  Id.





n198  Id.





n199  See id. at 22.





n200  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 13.





n201  Borsuk, supra note 163, at 22.





n202  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 11-12.





n203  Id. at 12.





n204  Id. at 13.





n205  See Borsuk, supra note 162, at 20 (quoting Milwaukee County District
Attorney John T. Chisolm: "Both sides of the political spectrum must acknowledge
that talking tough on crime has reached its limits. Being smart on crime is the
solution.").





n206  Id. at 26.





n207  Id.





n208  Id.





n209  Id. at 25 (quoting Milwaukee County District Attorney John T. Chisolm:
"Risk evaluation presumes that some offenders must be incapacitated and removed
from the community in an appropriate way for an appropriate time, but it also
allows, based on validated experience, that the majority of offenders can
respond effectively to intervention and not consume justice resources without
changing behavior.").





n210  Howell, supra note 46, at 276. See also Bernard E. Harcourt & Jens Ludwig,
Broken Windows: New Evidence from New York City and a Five-City Social
Experiment, 73 U. CHI. L. REV. 271, 277 (2006) (arguing that empirical evidence
does not support the broken windows theory of community policing).





n211  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 10-11 (citing
statistics that many police departments anticipate more budget cuts in 2011 and
that ninety-eight percent of responding police departments anticipate that the
current economic downturn will be at least somewhat problematic in 2012).


                               11 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday

Making a case for futuristic predictive policing in India

LENGTH: 832 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Sept. 9 -- Jharkhand police is adopting predictive policing - an
ambitious futuristic crime control method which will allow the police to
foretell not just the nature of crime, but also indicate the place where such a
felony is to take place. As understood by the layman, post-adoption of the
method, the police would be able to reach the crime scene before the crime is
committed. Quite naturally, the state police appears to be excited about the
project and have indicated that the pilot project could take off in the next
eight months and the plan for the entire state could be a reality by 2014.

For the staunch believers in and practitioners of conventional policing, the
project, which allows computers to predict crime, is a wasteful exercise. It is
being argued that the computers would be ineffective instruments of peeping into
the unpredictable 'human' nature of the criminals. It has been made out that
there is no alternative to the strengthening of the police station - the basic
structure of policing - and empowering the beat constable. While some of these
arguments are valid, to write off the role of technology in future crime
prevention may not be a good idea.

The futuristic policing system being implemented in Jharkhand in consultation
with the Ranchi campus of the Indian Institute of Management is based on
sophisticated algorithms and behavioural science- which complies crime-related
data of past years. The software then analyses the data and produces results,
predicting future crime in terms of locations and the nature of crime. The
method does sound incredible, is yet not without successes.

Several of the police departments of the developed world are gradually taking
help of software for predictive policing, with impressive returns. For example,
use of the software 'PredPol' has resulted in a 25 per cent drop in burglaries
in areas under the Los Angeles Police Department. A similar software developed
by the IBM for the South Carolina police has also led to a decrease in crime
rates. The Scotland Yard in Britain has popularised 'Facewatch' - a smart phone
application that provides the viewers the pictures of suspects who may be in
their areas. Coming across such a suspect, people can alert the police
department by simply tapping on the suspect's image.

Critiques of the futuristic policing models argue that the analytic capacities
of the software infuses no additional expertise. Police officials use past data
and their own analysis to identify crime patterns.

While that is true, it is also a fact that the ability to identify crime
patterns is intrinsically linked to capacity of the individual officers, which
is not a standard quality associated with all police officers. Benefits from the
software, thus, could be immense, especially for states which have dearth of
officials and ground-level personnel, vacancies at times running as high as 25
per cent. The software would provide instantaneous analyses, free from the
vagaries of delays and follies associated with the human planning. The system
would, thus, release more personnel to hit the road tackling crime rather than
being busy in crime trend analyses. In an age of diminishing budgets, police
departments would be able to optimise force deployment.

The biggest challenge would, however, come not from the believers in
conventional policing, but from inside the police establishment and the legal
system. Can the system work without a highly responsive and alert police force,
which wholeheartedly believes in the new operating environment? Would the courts
prosecute suspects arrested on the basis of a software prediction? Would the
system prevent crimes in new areas? The fact that answer to all these questions
is in the negative does not take away anything from the need for policing to go
futuristic and tech-savvy.

The predictive policing software does not replace the conventional policing, but
acts as an enabler. It facilitates the seamless integration of the merits of
technology with the skills of the police personnel. It does not aim at solving
crimes, but preventing them. More number of crimes being prevented would produce
less criminals in the court and aid the over-burdened judiciary.

Of all the states, Jharkhand is probably the best positioned to experiment with
predictive policing. Carved out in November 2000, it is a relatively new state,
thereby burdened with comparatively less data to be fed into the system. Its a
theatre where organised crime has mixed dangerously with extremism and
conventional criminal activities. It is also the state which has performed
exceptionally well in terms of police modernisation, especially in the past
couple of years. Jharkhand's success would possibly spur the other states to
follow suit.

bibhuroutray@gmail.com Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday

'Predictive policing' gets capital boost

BYLINE: By SHANNA McCORD Santa Cruz Sentinel

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 501 words


SANTA CRUZ   A couple of Santa Cruz entrepreneurs are predicting success with
their new crime-prevention business.

Attorney Caleb Baskin and Councilman Ryan Coonerty have taken the experimental "
predictive policing" program used by the Santa Cruz Police Department and
created software that they hope to sell to law enforcement agencies around the
nation. The duo, who founded the co-working business NextSpace, say they've
raised more than $1 million so far to fund their newest venture.

"Officers can use this to inform decisions and dedicate specific resources to
specific areas," Baskin said. "This can help direct the officers' patrol time so
they can deter or actually catch someone in the act."

PredPol, the name of their software, is based on an analytics model developed by
a group of researchers, including mathematician George Mohler of Santa Clara
University. The model used data gleaned from a study six years ago at the Los
Angeles Police Department.

The LAPD, which started testing the model in its Foothill Patrol Division in
November, has seen a 36 percent drop in burglaries and a 13 percent reduction in
overall crime since then, according to Coonerty. By comparison, crime is up 2
percent citywide, he said.

Santa Cruz police analyst Zach Friend learned about the model in October 2010
and began working with Mohler last year to test it at the Santa Cruz Police
Department.

In the year since the test program started in Santa Cruz, burglaries have
declined by 19 percent, Friend said.

The program has gained international media attention   and the attention of law
enforcement agencies nationwide, many asking how they can get the program.

Based on such requests, Friend helped coordinate a meeting between Mohler and
Baskin and Coonerty to discuss the idea of creating a business.

Baskin, 36, and Coonerty, 38, say investors who've helped fund their venture
include Plantronics CEO Ken Kannappan, former eBay executive Rob Chesnut and
Coonerty's brother-in-law Michel Protti, a vice president at Yahoo.

Baskin and Coonerty hope to sell the cloud-based software as a subscription
program with annual rates ranging from $25,000 to $250,000 depending on the
jurisdiction's population.

The Salinas Police Department, plagued by ongoing gang violence, has already
signed up for the software.

Salinas Deputy Chief Cassie McSorley said her department is excited about having
a new tool to help fight crime.

"We have issues with dwindling resources and we're trying to be smart about how
we use those resources," McSorley said. "The real-time analysis will be a rich
source of information for deployment of officers."

The software generates projections about when and where future crimes are likely
to occur. Crime statistics are computed daily and fresh data is fed into the
program.

Officers are shown digital maps at the beginning of each shift marked with boxes
representing 500-square-foot areas that are of highest risk for future crime.
They're encouraged to drive through those areas while on patrol.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Santa Cruz entrepreneurs Ryan Coonerty and Caleb Baskin will soon be
marketing predictive policing software to U.S. law enforcement agencies.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               September 23, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can sci-fi crimefighting really replace bobbies?

BYLINE: FIONNUALA BOURKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 503 words


LADIES! Whatever you do, don't cheat on your husband if you're in Warwickshire.

You could end up having to sit on the back of a ram in front of a courtroom full
of people, reciting a humiliating ditty while you hang on to its tail.

And that's not all you need to be wary of in the leafy Midland shire county. If
you try to sell shoes before 1pm you could be fined 40p.

That goes for men, too. You could also incur a 40p fine if you play tennis and
bowls too early in the day.

There's a recession on, don't you know. Such pastimes are considered a waste of
time.

And if you miss church, but manage to make it to the pub, and you're caught by a
warden, you could also face a fine.

A bigger one than the others.

Ten whole English shillings, to be precise.

Oh, hang on a minute. I thought it sounded a bit odd. These were laws that the
county was ruled by back in the Middle Ages.

They don't exist anymore. The National Archives' Manorial Documents Register put
them online for the first time last week.

In other news, we learned West Midlands Police is set to trial predictive
policing on Midland streets - just like Tom Cruise did in Minority Report.

And this is for real. I've double and triple-checked.

In case you can't remember, the 2002 hit film had a special police unit which
was able to arrest murderers before they committed their crimes.

West Midlands Police have not mentioned murder, though. Their predictive
policing scheme will deal with burglars. It will forecast who is about to be
burgled, then officers can go round and warn the potential victim.

The officers won't just tell the residents that they're under threat. They'll
check to see if their door locks are in fully working order, and see if they've
got an alarm fitted. Cops are also going to check the routes burglars take to
see if there are any common patterns.

Superintendent Alex Murray, who is leading the experiment, said: "Predictive
policing is about understanding where crime is going to happen before it's taken
place.

"We're launching two experiments to see if we can make an impact on the burglary
rates before burglary has actually happened."

Apparently previous trials took place in the suburbs of Los Angeles in the US
and showed promising results.

I know times are tough, but does the force really think this type of tactic is
going to make up for axing 2,000 members of staff in a bid to balance budgets?
The Home Office seems to think so. They're part-funding the scheme.

It might be dressed up as some kind of hi-tech crime fighting gizmo, but in
reality this has got all the originality and flair of discovering that bears go
to the woods to relieve themselves.

Apparently, the Pope is a Catholic as well.

Perhaps instead of looking to the future they should look at those ancient laws
for effective ideas to help burglary victims, many of whom feel unsafe in their
own homes and are denied the right to protect themselves.

Apparently, it's still legal to shoot a Welshman with a longbow - as long as
you're in Hereford's Cathedral Close on a Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUISE CONTROL: Tom Cruise in Minority Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               December 16, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US-style crime mapping helps catch UK thugs

BYLINE: James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 314 words


POLICE are trying to stay one step ahead of villains by using a com­ puter
program to predict where they will strike next.

It sounds like an episode of hit Channel 5 series Numb3rs in which FBI agent Don
Eppes recruits his mathematical genius brother Char­ lie to help him catch
crooks. However, the Predictive Policing method is real and having great success
in America. Los Angeles police say it has cut crime rates by 25 per cent while
their colleagues along the coast in Santa Cruz say their figures are down 19 per
cent.

Last week Kent police officers began a pilot study, using a com­ puter to draw
up maps of those areas in which crimes are most likely to be committed.

Predictions are made using a complex algorithm to process crime details such as
the time, place and method. The software is similar to that which predicts
after­ shocks following earthquakes. Kent police are using the method in
secretly selected areas. Detec­ tive Chief Superintendent John Sutton said: "We
are looking at all types of crime and anti­social behaviour. Two staff went to
Los Angeles to learn about it and we have rolled it out in the north of the
county for three months and after that it will be used county­wide for 12
months."

Zach Friend, a crime analyst with the Santa Cruz Police Depart­ ment, said: "We
have 30 per cent more calls for service but 20 per cent less staff than in 2000.
So we have to deploy our resources in a more effective way. " Los Angeles police
say the pro­ gram has saved over £3million. Captain Sean Malinowski said: "We've
prevented hundreds of homes being robbed."

LA police chief Charlie Beck said: "I'm not going to get more money. I'm not
going to get more cops. I have to be better at using what I have, and that's
what predic­ tive policing is about.

"If this old street cop can change the way he thinks about this stuff then I
know my officers can do the same."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIT: Rob Morrow and David Krumholtz in Numb3rs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                           Medway Messenger (Friday)

                               December 14, 2012

Police to tackle crime before it's been committed

LENGTH: 457  words


by Lynn Cox

lcox@thekmgroup.co.uk

POLICE in Medway are now tackling crime even before it has happened in a radical
new approach.

Officers in the Towns and other parts of the North division, which includes
Gravesend, Dartford and Swale, are piloting the ground-breaking scheme which has
reduced crime rates in parts of the United States by up to 17%.

From this week,  officers have been using the predictive policing tactic, which
analyses data to identify places where crime and anti-social behaviour are most
likely to occur.

Using advanced mathematics and analysis of human behaviour along with historic
crime data, it is more sophisticated than hot spot policing and intelligence-led
tactics.

The force has been working closely with police departments across America, such
as the Los Angeles Police Department, which has been using the initiative with
success, along with Prof Jeff Brantingham, from the University of California,
who helped invent the scheme.

Kent is the first force in the country to use it.

It is being led by Det Chief Supt Jon Sutton, who said the approach is good news
for people in Medway.

He said: "What it does is look at evidence-based crime which is likely to occur
in an area and officers go there to prevent it from happening.

"They would look at vulnerable targets, such as garages or cars being left
unlocked and contact the owners so they can get them locked up.  This will help
stop opportunist thieves targeting people's property."

Since Monday, officers in the Gravesend area have already caught a suspected
burglar in the act, by going to area highlighted by using the scheme.

Officers in Medway also identified some vehicles which had been left unsafe and
were able to contact the owners to get them to lock them before opportunist
thieves struck.

Det Ch Supt Sutton said: "Its exciting to be working on it as it will reduce the
number of victims of crime. It is a mixture of traditional policing and data.

"We've had the Americans over and we've been working with them and we expect the
initiative will reduces crime by about 3%."

The pilot will last three months and the results will be reviewed. It is set to
be rolled out across the rest of the county in April.

Ian Learmonth, Kent Police's Chief Constable said: "Predictive policing helps
address the root causes of crime rather than looking solely at the symptoms.

"It is the best example of old fashioned policing but using 21st century
technology."

It maps a small geographic area in a neighbourhood. Officers are sent to deal
with what they find and disrupt any criminal activity.  It does not replace
neighbourhood policing.

Police commissioner Ann Barnes endorses the scheme.  She said: "It fits in with
my vision of looking for new ideas that can help cut crime."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

Santa Cruz entrepreneurs build new business on predicting crime

BYLINE: Shanna McCord, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 600 words


June 11--SANTA CRUZ -- A couple of Santa Cruz entrepreneurs are predicting
success with their new crime-prevention business.

Attorney Caleb Baskin and Councilman Ryan Coonerty have taken the experimental "
predictive policing" program used by the Santa Cruz Police Department and
created software that they hope to sell to law enforcement agencies around the
nation. The duo, who founded the co-working business NextSpace, say they've
raised more than $1 million so far to fund their newest venture.

"Officers can use this to inform decisions and dedicate specific resources to
specific areas," Baskin said. "This can help direct the officers' patrol time so
they can deter or actually catch someone in the act."

PredPol, the name of their software, is based on an analytics model developed by
a group of researchers, including mathematician George Mohler of Santa Clara
University. The model used data gleaned from a study six years ago at the Los
Angeles Police Department.

The LAPD, which started testing the model in its Foothill Patrol Division in
November, has seen a 36 percent drop in burglaries and a 13 percent reduction in
overall crime since then, according to Coonerty. By comparison, crime is up 2
percent citywide, he said.

Santa Cruz police analyst Zach Friend learned about the model in October 2010
and began working with Mohler last year to test it at the Santa Cruz Police
Department.

In the year since the test program started in Santa Cruz,

burglaries have declined by 19 percent, Friend said.

"The only thing operationally we changed was using this program," Friend said.
"We didn't have any more officers on the street."

The program has gained international media attention -- and the attention of law
enforcement agencies nationwide, many asking how they can get the program.

Based on such requests, Friend helped coordinate a meeting between Mohler and
Baskin and Coonerty to discuss the idea of creating a business.

Baskin, 36, and Coonerty, 38, say investors who've helped fund their venture
include Plantronics CEO Ken Kannappan, former eBay executive and Pasatiempo
resident Rob Chesnut and Coonerty's brother-in-law Michel Protti, a vice
president at Yahoo.

Baskin and Coonerty hope to sell the cloud-based software as a subscription
program with annual rates ranging from $25,000 to $250,000 depending on the
jurisdiction's population. They said they will provide the software to the Santa
Cruz Police Department for free.

The Salinas Police Department, plagued by ongoing gang violence, has already
signed up for the software.

Salinas Deputy Chief Cassie McSorley said her department is excited about having
a new tool to help fight crime.

"We have issues with dwindling resources and we're trying to be smart about how
we use those resources," McSorley said. "The real-time analysis will be a rich
source of information for deployment of officers."

Follow Sentinel reporter Shanna McCord on Twitter @scnewsmom

At a glance

PredPol

The software generates projections about when and where future crimes are likely
to occur. Crime statistics are computed daily and fresh data is fed into the
program.

Officers are shown digital maps at the beginning of each shift marked with boxes
representing 500-square-foot areas that are of highest risk for future crime.
They're encouraged to drive through those areas while on patrol.

The crime models are similar to ones used for predicting aftershocks from
earthquakes.

___ (c)2012 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120611-QC-Santa-Cruz-entrepreneurs-build-new-business-on-predicting-crime-0611
-20120611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2012 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               17 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2012 Georgetown Law Journal
                             Georgetown Law Journal

                                   June, 2012

                             Georgetown Law Journal

                               100 Geo. L.J. 1587

LENGTH: 43680 words

ARTICLE: Decarceration Courts: Possibilities and Perils of a Shifting Criminal
Law

NAME: ALLEGRA M. MCLEOD *

BIO:



   * Associate Professor, Georgetown University Law Center. J.D., Yale Law
School, 2006; Ph.D., Stanford University, 2009. (c) 2012, Allegra M. McLeod. For
helpful discussion of the ideas explored in this Article, I am especially
thankful to Bruce Ackerman, Easha Anand, Hadar Aviram, David Barron, Guyora
Binder, Josh Cohen, David Cole, Dennis Curtis, Matthew Dimick, Sharon Dolovich,
Malcolm Feeley, Dyan Ferraris, William Hubbard, Vicki Jackson, Pam Karlan, Doug
Keller, Mark Kelman, Issa Kohler-Hausmann, Adam Kolber, Adriaan Lanni, Derin
McLeod, John T. Monahan, Judith Resnik, Tanina Rostain, Louis Michael Seidman,
Abbe Smith, Carol Steiker, Kate Stith, Jeannie Suk, David Super, Joshua C.
Teitelbaum, Detlev Vagts, Robert Weisberg, Robin West, the editors of The
Georgetown Law Journal, the research librarians at Georgetown Law Faculty
Services, and workshop participants at Georgetown University Law Center, Yale
Law School, and the 2011 Law and Society Meeting in San Francisco. I also
received many thoughtful questions and useful feedback from participants in the
faculty workshops at the following law schools: Berkeley, Brooklyn, Chicago,
Cornell, Duke, Fordham, Harvard, Minnesota, Rutgers-Camden, Seattle, Stanford,
UC Davis, University of San Francisco, University of Toronto, University of
Virginia, and the Washington College of Law at American University. Any errors
are my own.

HIGHLIGHT: A widely decried crisis confronts U.S. criminal law. Jails and
prisons are overcrowded and violence plagued. Additional causes for alarm
include the rate of increase of incarcerated populations, their historically and
internationally unprecedented size, their racial disproportionality, and
exorbitant associated costs. Although disagreement remains over the precise
degree by which incarceration ought to be reduced, there is a growing consensus
that some measure of decarceration is desirable.

   With hopes of reducing reliance on conventional criminal supervision and
incarceration, specialized criminal courts proliferated dramatically over the
past two decades. There are approximately 3,000 specialized criminal courts in
the United States, including drug courts, mental health courts, veterans courts,
and reentry courts. The existing scholarly commentary on specialized criminal
courts is largely trapped in the mode of advocacy, alternately celebratory or
disparaging, and insufficiently attentive to the remarkable variation between
different specialized criminal courts. In contrast, this Article takes a closer
and more critical look at the marked expansion of these courts as a peculiar
strategy to devise alternatives to conventional jail- and prison-based
sentencing.

   This Article reveals that specialized criminal courts have become significant
terrain for a contest between competing criminal law reformist models and that
different outcomes in this contest may portend starkly contrasting futures for
U.S. criminal law and governance. More specifically, this Article introduces a
typology and critical theoretical account of four criminal law reformist models
at work in specialized criminal courts: a therapeutic jurisprudence model, a
judicial monitoring model, an order maintenance model, and a decarceration
model. Part II argues that, whereas the first three of these models threaten to
aggravate existing pathologies in U.S. criminal law administration--expanding
criminal supervision, diminishing procedural protections, and possibly even
increasing incarceration despite opposite intended effects--the fourth, less
predominant model, a decarceration model, holds the potential to bring about
substantial transformative change in U.S. criminal law. On a decarceration
model, specialized criminal courts function as experimental diversionary
programs that assign otherwise jail- or prison-bound defendants mental health
and drug treatment, job and housing placement, along with other services in lieu
of incarceration. On this model, integration within social contexts outside
criminal justice systems substitute for the surveilling function of criminal
supervision and incarceration.

   Part III provides a theoretical framework to capture the possibilities for
criminal law reform opened by a decarceration model, which may cognitively
reframe shared understandings of crime and punishment; engage in institutional
reinvention, transforming criminal law administrative institutions into
different configurations; and facilitate systemic change by spurring conceptual
shifts and freeing resources from criminal law administration for other sectors.
Part IV begins to explore the more general perils attending a specialized
criminal courts law reform strategy, including excessive legalism; dilution of
the retributive and deterrent features of criminal punishment; inefficient
proliferating specializations; and legitimation of harshness in conventional
courts and unfairness toward less sympathetic, racial minority, or otherwise
stigmatized defendants.

TEXT:
 [*1589]  INTRODUCTION

   Significant change is afoot in U.S. criminal law. There remain roughly seven
million people incarcerated, on probation, or on parole in the United States
n1--a quantum of criminal law oversight roundly condemned by commentators across
the political spectrum and around the world.  n2 But by the turn of the
twenty-first  [*1590]  century, largely in response to growing censure and in
the face of escalating costs, states across the country committed to decrease
reliance on incarceration.  n3 Alongside state-initiated reforms, federal prison
conditions litigation contributed further incentives to decarcerate. Most
notably, the U.S. Supreme Court in Brown v. Plata affirmed an order of a
specially convened three-judge district court, which mandated that California
reduce its prison population by 40,000 prisoners over two years to eliminate
unconstitutional conditions.  n4 Yet, while pressures to decarcerate mount, it
remains unclear how it will be possible to achieve the larger scale shifts
necessary to reach and sustain markedly lower levels of criminal prosecution,
criminal supervision, and incarceration.  n5

   As one part of a broader effort to reduce reliance on conventional probation
and carceral sentencing, beginning in the early 1990s, state court judges began
to convene specialized criminal courts from Florida to California, Michigan to
Texas: drug courts, mental health courts, veterans courts, and reentry courts,
among others.  n6 These increasingly popular specialized criminal courts--of
which there are approximately 3,000 in the United States and its
territories--assume various legal institutional forms and divergent
jurisprudential approaches.  n7 Nonetheless, despite considerable variation,
what most of the courts share in common is the goal of reducing reliance on
conventional jail- and  [*1591]  prison-based sentencing in favor of
problem-oriented alternatives.  n8 The courts also empower judges to adopt
neo-realist problem-oriented roles, embrace less adversarial criminal
procedures, and aspire to more effectively protect public safety and prevent
crime.  n9

   It is uncertain, though, what specialized criminal courts actually portend.
Are these courts configured in a manner that is likely to facilitate the
intended goals of reduced or more efficacious criminal supervision and reduced
incarceration? Or, as some critics charge, do specialized criminal courts
improve judges' experience in the courts by emphasizing anti-formalist,
problem-oriented proceedings without tending to resolve the legal systemic and
social problems the courts purport to address?  n10

   This Article offers an account of how specialized criminal courts may enable
substantially reduced reliance on incarceration as well as more general
transformative criminal law reform by embracing a criminal law reformist
framework, which I term a decarceration model. However, this Article will argue
that, in their currently predominant institutional forms, specialized criminal
courts threaten to produce a range of unintended and undesirable outcomes:
unnecessarily expanding criminal surveillance, diminishing procedural
protections, and potentially even increasing incarceration.

   The existing scholarship on specialized criminal courts treats particular
substantively specialized criminal courts--drug courts, for example--as a
largely undifferentiated category, either celebrating or proposing the
abandonment of specialized criminal law administration across the board. On the
one hand, some commentators commend specialized criminal courts for facilitating
"a quiet revolution among American criminal courts"  n11 and the emergence of a
new "criminal justice paradigm."  n12 Also among the courts' supporters are
those who  [*1592]  herald specialized criminal courts as "experimentalist
governance" mechanisms enabling much-needed social and legal change not
achievable through more conventional judicial or legislative intervention.  n13
On the other hand, the courts' detractors--criminal law scholars and criminal
defense lawyers alike--have called for the abandonment or marked scaling back of
specialized criminal courts as "contraindicated" and anathema to the reformist
goals the courts' architects hoped to achieve, largely on account of procedural
rights concerns.  n14 Both of these sharply divided responses approach each type
of substantively specialized criminal court as internally homogeneous and either
entirely praiseworthy or entirely dangerous. Accordingly, there has been
insufficient attention both to the remarkable variation between specialized
criminal courts and to the different consequences potentially associated with
the courts' divergent approaches.

   This Article demonstrates, instead, that specialized criminal courts have
become the locus of an ongoing contest between four primary competing models of
reformist criminal law administration. These models are characterized by
dissimilar legal institutional features and distinct ideological and theoretical
commitments. And these divergent approaches push in quite different directions
in terms of their likely effects on incarceration practices, levels of criminal
supervision, and other desired criminal law reforms.

   Consider this motley assortment of specialized criminal courts and the
various criminal offenses, sentences, ideologies, and possible outcomes
associated with each. First, the Veterans Court of Okemos, Michigan and the case
of Staff Sergeant Brad Eifert, a veteran of the Iraq War. Armed with a
.45-caliber pistol,  [*1593]  Eifert initiated a shoot-out with police in the
woods adjacent to his home:


     The police were out there somewhere and, one way or the other,
     [Eifert] was ready to die. He raised the gun to his head and then
     lowered it. Then he fired nine rounds.

     . . . .
     Leaving his weapon, he ran into the driveway, shouting, "Shoot me!
     Shoot me! Shoot me!" The police officers subdued him with a Taser and
     arrested him. A few hours later, he sat in a cell at the Ingham County
     Jail, charged with five counts of assault with intent to murder the
     officers, each carrying a potential life sentence.

     . . . .
     . . . Eifert, having pleaded guilty to a single charge of carrying a
     weapon with unlawful intent, a felony, will officially enter the
     veterans court program. . . . [In t]welve to 18 months[,] . . . if he
     adheres to the strict regimen of treatment through the Veterans
     Affairs hospital in Battle Creek and supervision set by the court, the
     charge could be dismissed or reduced to a misdemeanor.  n15

   Compare Eifert's case and the Okemos Veterans Court to Florida's Broward
County Mental Health Court. In the words of Broward County's Judge Ginger
Lerner-Wren:


     [T]he Mental Health Court [is] a "strategy" to bring fairness to the
     administration of justice for persons being arrested on minor offenses
     who suffer from major mental disability. . . . Persons with major
     psychiatric disorders and/or mental disabilities can live and thrive
     in the community with individualized care, treatment and community
     support.  n16

   Whereas Eifert's case involved a more serious weapons charge carrying a
potentially lengthy prison sentence, Judge Lerner-Wren's Mental Health Court
concentrates on individuals accused of minor crimes. Yet, both the Broward
County Mental Health Court and the Okemos Veterans Court rely on alternative
sanctions that entail treatment primarily outside the specialized criminal
court.

   Other specialized criminal courts rely heavily on judicial monitoring as part
and parcel of alternative sentencing, rather than primarily on referral to
social services outside the criminal court, effectively tasking the judge with
the work of a probation or parole officer. For example, the Syracuse, New York
Drug Treatment Court significantly expands judicial surveillance of minor drug
offenders and uses arrest and incarceration as routine sanctions for
noncompliance with court mandates. As sociologist James Nolan explains, in one
instance:


      [*1594]  A participant in Judge McKinney's Syracuse, New York drug
     court lost his job. McKinney called the employer and learned that the
     client was regarded as a "damn good employee" and that the boss would
     "hire him back in a heartbeat" if the judge could guarantee that he
     was drug free and that he wouldn't miss any work. So the judge made a
     deal with the employer. He said to him: "Okay, I'll make a deal with
     you, you take him back and I'll add another weapon to your arsenal. If
     he doesn't come to work when he is supposed to, doesn't come to work
     on time . . . I'll put him in jail, on your say so." [The judge
     relayed the arrangement to the defendant,] telling him: "I'll get your
     job back for you, but you've got to promise you'll be at work when you
     are supposed to . . . . Your employer is now on the team of people who
     are reporting to me. When he calls up and tells me that you are late,
     or that you're not there, I'm going to send the cops out to arrest
     you."  n17

   This approach may extend criminal supervision into new domains such as the
employment context and in so doing may increase levels of at least short-term
incarceration. Quite distinctly, the mental health and veterans courts'
approaches just related are characterized by a combination of diversionary
treatment strategies that do not necessarily rely heavily on judicial
surveillance or other forms of direct criminal supervision by the court.

   These examples illustrate some of the considerable diversity in the
institutional configurations and conceptual orientations of specialized criminal
courts. These courts may focus on more minor offenses or more serious ones. They
may rely primarily on referrals to social service organizations or on direct
judicial oversight. The court proceedings themselves may aim to facilitate
behavioral modification, or social service intervention may occur entirely
outside the court context. And diversion may take place pre-plea, post-plea, or
as a post-conviction sentencing alternative.

   To begin to make sense of this diverse landscape, this Article introduces a
typology and critical theoretical account of four criminal law reformist models
at work in specialized criminal courts:


     (1) a therapeutic jurisprudence model;

     (2) a judicial monitoring model;

     (3) an order maintenance model; and

     (4) a decarceration model.  n18


The first three of these models, I argue, possess characteristics that pose a
considerable risk of deepening and extending existing pathologies in criminal
law administration, exacerbating overcriminalization and potentially expanding
[*1595]  incarceration. But the fourth model--a decarceration model--promises to
begin to reduce levels of criminalization and incarceration and to develop
experimentalist and sociologically informed alternatives to criminal law
intervention.

   These four models consist of generally interconnected institutional features
and ideological commitments on which the courts draw. Although numerous courts
reflect some characteristics of more than one model, the models are prototypes
to which existing courts roughly adhere. In identifying these basic contrasting
approaches, this typology serves to illuminate some of the underappreciated
variation between and among different specialized criminal courts, thereby
distinguishing the specific risks associated with distinct bundles of legal
institutional and ideological features, facilitating more informed empirical
analysis and clarifying the contours of various possible reform agendas being
tested in the specialized courts context.

   Before delving in greater depth into the four models and their associated
aspirations, risks, and limitations, a brief overview of each model will help to
set the stage for the analysis to follow. Courts operating on a therapeutic
jurisprudence model adopt a neo-rehabilitative approach, convening courts to
therapeutically treat offenders (and in some instances victims).  n19 On a
therapeutic jurisprudence model, the judge personally attempts to facilitate a
therapeutic process in court through routine proceedings, intermediate
sanctions, and in some instances jail- or prison-based sentencing. Substantial
efforts are devoted to making court proceedings themselves part of ongoing
psychotherapeutic interventions aimed at behavioral modification.

   The second model relies upon intensive judicial monitoring, focusing on
deterrence, defendant accountability, and expanded judicial surveillance as an
alternative or adjunct to incarceration.  n20 A court operating solely in
conformity with a judicial monitoring model eschews the court-centered
rehabilitative psychotherapeutic ambitions that are central to the therapeutic
jurisprudence model and instead emphasizes deterrent judicially administered
surveillance.

   A third model, emphasizing order maintenance, operates largely in community
courts, which address relatively minor public order violations through locally
administered intermediate sanctions such as community service.  n21 Courts
reflecting an order maintenance model are characterized primarily by their focus
on low-level quality-of-life offenses inspired by a "broken windows" theory of
policing and do not necessarily embrace either therapeutic or judicially
surveillant features.

   Then, there is the fourth, less common model, the theoretical orientation and
reformist potential of which this Article will elaborate: a decarceration model.
Specialized criminal courts adopting a decarceration model are experimental
diversionary programs that assign otherwise likely jail- or prison-bound
defendant  [*1596]  mental health and drug treatment, job and housing placement,
along with other services in lieu of incarceration.  n22 On a decarceration
model, integration within social institutions outside the criminal court
substitutes for the surveilling function of criminal supervision and
incarceration.  n23 The significant reformist possibility in a decarceration
model arises principally from its directly diversionary orientation coupled with
rigorous ongoing empirical monitoring of court experimentation to establish
whether and, if so, how non-carceral sentencing may be applied in particular
contexts without undue risk to public safety.  n24

   The models are distinct from, though often overlapping with, the
self-definitions and names of the courts. In other words, the models are
composed of bundles of legal institutional and ideological features identified
through my research in preparation of this Article--through site visits,
analysis of archived interviews, and a review of quantitative and qualitative
empirical studies--not exclusively, or even primarily, in reference to the
self-descriptions of the various courts. So while a drug court might conform to
an order maintenance model or a therapeutic jurisprudence model, in either
instance the court may still be called simply a drug court. Likewise, a mental
health court might reflect features of a judicial monitoring model but be
referred to plainly as a mental health court. Courts adopting a diversionary
decarceration approach are similarly not called decarceration courts but are
identified as drug courts or mental health courts--and for reasons of political
expedience, avoiding the decarceration terminology may be prudent. Other courts
with characteristics corresponding to a therapeutic jurisprudence model may
tailor the courts' names to reflect their therapeutic orientation, as in a
therapeutic drug court or drug treatment court. Even though multiple
institutional models may coexist in one court, one or another model generally
predominates in any given specialized criminal court.  [*1597]
      Model         Defining Characteristics               Theory
Therapeutic       Judge seeks to fulfill       Neo-rehabilitative,
Jurisprudence     therapeutic function,        Therapeutic Jurisprudence
                  personally addressing
                  psychosocial motivation to
                  offend through
                  therapeutically attuned
                  court proceedings
Judicial          Judge fulfills surveillant   Deterrence through Judicial
Monitoring        role akin to probation or    Surveillance
                  parole officer
Order             Court provides forum for     "Broken Windows"
Order-Maintenance prosecuting quality-of-life  Maintenance Hypothesis:
                  offenses that would          Reducing low level
                  otherwise receive little     quality-of-life offending
                  attention in conventional    will improve respect for law
                  criminal courts              and decrease crime overall,
                                               thereby reducing incarceration
Decarceration     Court aims primarily to      Structural/Systemic Origins of
                  reduce reliance on carceral  Overcriminalization &
                  sentencing by referring      Overincarceration: Social
                  defendants to mental health, integration fulfills
                  public health, job training, informally surveillant
                  and other sectors that serve function, a preferable
                  substitute surveilling       substitute for incarceration
                  function, and outcomes are   in wide range of cases
                  monitored to demonstrate
                  possibility of expanding
                  non-carceral approach

   The following table illustrates the defining characteristics and theoretical
bases of each of the four models.

   This Article's core argument is that the therapeutic jurisprudence, judicial
monitoring, and order maintenance models may fall short in reducing criminal
supervision and incarceration and threaten to produce otherwise harmful
outcomes; a decarceration model, however, stands to facilitate broader
transformative criminal law reform, setting in motion change processes that
could over time reduce reliance on criminal prosecution and incarceration as a
way of regulating an array of complex social problems. The risks attributed by
critics to any one particular type of specialized criminal court--drug courts,
for instance--are thus better understood as potential problems with particular
models (bundles of legal institutional and ideological features) of reformist
criminal law administration, certain of which may even tend to extend
surveillance, diminish procedural protections, and expand incarceration.  n25

   Due to this variation, coming to terms with the shifts in criminal law
manifest in specialized criminal courts will not be achieved either by simply
embracing  [*1598]  or by rejecting the turn to criminal court specialization.
Rather, the effects of specialized criminal courts will depend on an ongoing
competition over the shape and ambition of these courts. And a
decarceration-focused criminal law reform agenda--emerging in specialized
criminal courts that attempt to navigate the perils and harness the
possibilities identified in the pages to follow--holds the promise of enabling a
form of criminal law administration more narrowly tailored to address that
conduct for which criminal law intervention is most suited, allocating to other
sectors the management of a range of social concerns from addiction to mental
illness.

   Importantly then, the impact of these reformist models reaches beyond the
context of specialized criminal courts. At this moment of increasing bipartisan
interest in criminal law reform aimed at reducing incarceration, the models at
work in specialized criminal courts are likely to take on wider significance,
informing more general criminal law reform strategies. For this reason,
attention to these contrasting reformist approaches at work in specialized
criminal courts merits the sustained attention of criminal law scholars and
others concerned about the steep costs--economic and human--of the status quo in
U.S. criminal law administration and about the harms endemic in our carceral
institutions.

   This Article consists of four parts. Part I situates the contemporary
explosion of specialized criminal courts within a range of ongoing criminal law
reforms implemented to reduce levels of criminal supervision and incarceration.
Part I proposes that, as states and the federal government aim to decrease
reliance on incarceration, specialized criminal courts contribute an array of
criminal law reformist frameworks that may inform the wide-ranging, largely ad
hoc changes occurring more generally in U.S. criminal law.

   Part II provides a typology and critical analysis of four criminal law
reformist models reflected in the rapidly multiplying assortment of specialized
criminal courts. Part II considers not only whether these models are likely to
fulfill their stated purposes but also some of their possible broader effects.
An implication of the analysis in Part II is that the study of specialized
criminal courts ought to proceed in a different way than it has to date, by
attending carefully to the legal institutional and conceptual differences
between the various criminal law reformist models that the typology introduced
here identifies. Part II contends that, in certain legal institutional
configurations, specialized criminal courts may well thwart the courts'
overarching shared ambition of countering overcriminalization and
overincarceration, and that they may cause other underappreciated harms. Yet, if
differently configured, the courts contain considerable broader reaching
reformist possibilities.

   Part III explores three strategies that may enable a decarceration model to
realize its reformist potential to reduce reliance on conventional criminal
supervision and incarceration as well as to facilitate other transformative
shifts in U.S. criminal law. Part III proposes that, though it is unlikely and
possibly  [*1599]  undesirable that specialized criminal courts would be brought
to scale,  n26 even in relatively small numbers a decarceration model may effect
farther reaching reform by facilitating cognitive reframing of particular
categories of crime and punishment, engaging in institutional reinvention, and
enabling systemic change. Finally, Part IV considers the perils of a specialized
criminal courts law reform approach more generally and begins to respond to
anticipated objections.

   The analysis in Parts I through IV is informed by observation of proceedings
in an array of specialized criminal courts; archived interviews with specialized
court judges, court administrators, and court participants; a review of hundreds
of the courts' promotional materials; additional primary source material
concerning a national range of specialized criminal courts; the legal academic
and sociological literature on the courts; and previously unexamined studies of
the courts conducted by government agencies and independent research entities.
n27

   I. A SHIFTING CRIMINAL LAW

   Dissatisfaction with the status quo in U.S. criminal law administration has
led to a range of attempts to establish alternatives. The precise contours of
what such alternatives should entail are uncertain. This Part will first take
stock of the broad shifts ongoing in U.S. criminal law. Although these shifts
lack an orienting conceptual framework, specialized criminal courts have become
grounds for elaborating different criminal law reformist models, four of the
most significant of which are explored in Part II.

   Preliminarily, what does the status quo in conventional U.S. criminal law
administration entail? A powerful body of criminal law and social theoretical
scholarship bears witness to the tremendous expansion and deepening harshness of
U.S. criminal law administration during the latter decades of the twentieth and
beginning of the twenty-first centuries: to the harms and economic burdens
caused by both overcriminalization and overincarceration;  n28 to the "culture
of control" these practices engendered;  n29 and to the United States' "harsh
justice" regime,  n30 under which "the poor" and "urban outcasts" suffer most,
n31 and  [*1600]  through which we all are "governed through crime."  n32 As
substantive criminal law expanded dramatically, prosecutorial power mushroomed
and so did case load pressures and reliance on plea-bargaining.  n33 During the
1980s and 1990s, a range of causal forces pushed toward a form of governance in
the United States that relied heavily on conventional criminal law
administration to maintain social order, in large part through policing, arrest,
prosecution, probation, and often lengthy prison sentences.  n34 The results
have been disastrous, exceedingly expensive, and inhumane: racial and class
disproportion in U.S. criminal courts, jails, and prisons is staggering, with
African-American men incarcerated at a rate six times greater than that of white
men and nearly one in three young African-American men without a high school
education living behind bars.  n35 Prison and jail overcrowding is a persistent
crisis.  n36 Sexual assaults in detention settings are daily occurrences.  n37
Even for those not subject to violent physical or sexual abuse, what Charles
Dickens wrote of American jails and prisons well over a century ago remains true
today: "[T]his slow and daily tampering with the mysteries of the brain . . .
[visits] ghastly signs and tokens . . . not so palpable to the eye and sense of
touch as scars upon the flesh . . . ."  n38 "[T]hese frustrations," in the words
of sociologist Gresham Sykes in his path-breaking study, The Society of Captives
, "carry a . . . profound hurt . . . directed against the very foundations of
the prisoner's being. The individual's picture of himself as a person of
value--as a morally acceptable, adult . . . who can present some claim to merit
in his material achievements and his inner strength--begins to waver and grow
dim.  n39

    [*1601]  Of the approximately 13.5 million people who spend time in U.S.
prisons or jails over the course of a year, ninety-five percent return to
communities outside. They bring with them the psychic toll of living amidst
violence and despair and the heightened risk of having acquired contagious
diseases, impacting the public health and public safety of communities around
the country.  n40 Further, costs to maintain high levels of incarceration--with
one in thirty-one adults in the United States under some type of correctional
control  n41 --have become exorbitant and particularly politically unpopular
during a period of significant fiscal constraints.  n42

   As these costs of managing a range of social ills through criminal law and
punishment have become increasingly apparent, the hold of these practices is
slowly loosening.  n43 This poses anew a long-standing question of how to
attempt differently to achieve some measure of social order, whether through
reformed criminal law administration, the market economy, and/or reconfigured
social welfare policies.  n44

   Even absent widely shared alternative conceptual frameworks to address this
question, legislatures and courts, cognizant of the problems posed by expansive
criminalization and incarceration, have begun to intervene to scale back the
reach of criminal law, at least with regard to certain categories of offenses
and offenders. Crime rates have remained relatively low, including violent crime
rates, generating greater openness to less punitive, less prison-focused
approaches.  n45 The following sections briefly review the range of contemporary
criminal law reform efforts, first in the arenas of legislation, law
enforcement, and litigation, and then in the context of specialized criminal
courts, which will be the focus of the remainder of this Article.

    [*1602]  A. REFIGURING HARSH JUSTICE: LEGISLATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT,
LITIGATION

   There is an increasing openness on the part of legislatures, courts, and the
public to experiment with criminal law administrative alternatives, but across
the numerous contexts of ongoing reform there is no common conception of how an
alternative social-order-maintenance regime may operate without extensive
reliance on conventional criminal law enforcement. Importantly as well, the ad
hoc shifts in criminal law administration are occurring in the absence of an
account of how current shifts will be sustained in the event that one egregious
crime causes popular punitive sentiment to rise again.

   Generally, recent legislation has shortened prison terms,  n46
recharacterized some of what were previously felonies to misdemeanors,  n47 and
reduced sentences for nonviolent offenses.  n48 Additional measures divert
people charged with lower-level drug offenses from carceral sentences, apply
graduated sanctions to those who violate the rules on probation or parole, and
focus resources on reentry so as to avoid reincarceration.  n49

   At the state level, along with other criminal law reforms, mandatory minimums
have been eliminated in multiple jurisdictions. Michigan, for example, has done
away with mandatory minimum sentences for the vast majority of drug offenses.
n50 Kansas revised its sentencing guidelines to mandate treatment rather than
prison for persons convicted of drug possession.  n51 In 2009, New York repealed
the Rockefeller drug laws, which mandated sentences of at least  [*1603]
fifteen years for possession of as little as four ounces of a narcotic drug.
n52 California Senate Bill X3 18, passed in 2009, introduced numerous changes to
reduce reliance on imprisonment, including authorizing nonrevocable parole,
increasing the minimum dollar quantity for some felony-level property crimes,
and raising the number of "good-time credits" prisoners are eligible to earn
through educational programs, treatment participation, or firefighting work.
n53

   At the federal level, the Second Chance Act of 2007 provides federal funding
to the states for new criminal justice initiatives aimed at reducing recidivism
and reincarceration.  n54 The legislation supports appropriations for state and
federal programs providing employment assistance, substance abuse treatment, and
housing along with other services for individuals with criminal convictions.
n55 And, in 2010, Congress passed a bill to reduce the disparity in crack and
powder cocaine sentencing from 100:1 to 18:1.  n56

   Accompanying these legislative changes, police departments are increasingly
participating in diversionary programs at the preindictment stage, seeking to
reduce reliance on arrests, prosecution, and prison- and jail-based punishment.
n57 Some police departments have transitioned to a "problem-oriented" or "
predictive policing" model, which focuses police energies on particular areas
where certain crimes are believed to be likely to occur.  n58 The focus is on
understanding crime patterns in neighborhoods where a car theft or burglary has
taken place and allocating resources to prevent similar future acts in
significant  [*1604]  measure through design interventions such as improved
lighting and visibility, or more frequent patrols.  n59

   Shifts are also reflected in Supreme Court case law. Rehabilitation--for
decades largely rejected as a theory of punishment--was invoked by the Court in
its 2010 opinion in Graham v. Florida, which extended proportionality review in
the noncapital context to restrain penal severity.  n60 The Court categorically
invalidated the sentence of life imprisonment without parole for juveniles for
nonhomicide offenses on the grounds that the sentence rejected "altogether the
rehabilitative ideal," providing "no chance for reconciliation with society, no
hope" for one who committed a crime while still "a child in the eyes of the
law."  n61 And in Brown v. Plata, a majority of Supreme Court justices joined an
opinion upholding a specially convened three-judge district court's prison
population reduction order and decrying the inhumane conditions for mentally ill
and infirm inmates in California's prisons.  n62

   These developments are in line with recommendations to reduce dependence on
incarceration and criminal supervision urged by liberal criminal law scholars
and criminologists since at least the mid-1990s.  n63 Many of these reforms have
more recently been embraced by political conservatives as well.  n64

   Although these changing approaches and attitudes have affected every level of
criminal law administration from policing to parole and probation, there is
nonetheless a more general, persistent uncertainty about how better to
administer criminal law so as to depart significantly from current
practices--and perhaps more critically, how to expand and sustain support for
alternatives to incarceration and conventional criminal supervision. Part of
what is lacking is what criminologist Mary Bosworth describes as a "coordinated
conceptual framework to help shift not only penal institutions and practices but
also those more subtle structures of feeling and belief that have proven so
effective in ratcheting up punitive practice."  n65

   Specialized criminal courts are engaged in the work of shaping coordinated
[*1605]  conceptual and institutional frameworks to inform criminal law reform
processes, and there are at least four distinct reformist approaches represented
in existing specialized criminal courts. The following section explores the
emergence of contemporary specialized criminal courts--their heterogeneous and
common ambitions, histories, and ambits--before turning in the following Part to
a typology and critical analysis of four reformist models at work in these
courts.

   B. CRIMINAL COURT REFORM: SPECIALIZED CRIMINAL COURTS

   The contemporary specialized criminal courts movement was spearheaded by
state court judges dismayed with the miscarriages of justice they witnessed
daily in their courts. Although the progenitors of specialized criminal courts
sought initially only to devise different solutions for their respective local
jurisdictions, the specialized courts approach took off and the courts'
influence expanded nationally. As specialized criminal courts spread across the
United States, the courts came to reflect considerable institutional diversity.

   Of the approximately 3,000 specialized criminal courts in the United States,
the original and most numerous are drug courts. Beginning in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, judges dissatisfied with their role in processing drug cases began
to convene drug courts to reduce reliance on incarceration in favor of treatment
and other monitoring processes for drug-related offenses. Among the first
contemporary adult specialized criminal courts, the Miami-Dade Drug Court was
established in 1989 to reduce reliance on jail and prison in dealing with
low-level drug offenders.  n66 To promote these initiatives, state court judges
collaborated with prosecutors, public defense counsel, and ultimately state
legislatures and the federal government. Former Attorney General Janet Reno,
when she was a local prosecutor in Florida, was instrumental in establishing the
Miami-Dade Drug Court; and then, when Reno became Attorney General of the United
States, she used her control over federal criminal justice spending to urge
other states to adopt similar initiatives.  n67 Subsequently drug courts have
received overwhelming bipartisan support.  n68

    [*1606]  At the National Drug Court Conference in 1998, Judge Jeffrey
Tauber, Oakland, California's first drug court judge and then-President of the
National Association of Drug Court Professionals, addressed his audience of more
than 2,500 drug court professionals, predicting the growing influence that drug
courts would wield in coming years: "[W]e have clearly proven through the work
that we've done, through our numbers, through the effectiveness of our courts,
that this field, this movement, this organization is ready to take center stage,
is ready to move its own agenda forward on . . . the local, state, and national
levels."  n69

   Indeed, in the years to follow drug courts sprung up around the country. As
the number of drug courts increased, their institutional configurations came to
vary substantially. Like the first Miami-Dade Drug Court program, drug courts
generally aim to help narcotics-involved offenders to stay off drugs by offering
the opportunity to enter drug rehabilitation rather than incarceration, but many
drug courts increasingly address a range of other crimes presumably associated
with drug use, such as shoplifting, prostitution, and burglary.  n70 Some drug
courts admit defendants with lengthy and serious felony records, while others
limit eligibility to those with nonviolent minor charges.  n71

   Shortly after the advent of the drug court movement, mental health courts,
community courts, domestic violence courts, and, later, veterans courts, sex
offense courts, and reentry courts emerged in jurisdictions around the United
States. Each of these categories of specialized criminal courts represents a
largely judicially innovated attempt to work around perceived inadequacies in
the conventional criminal law administrative approach in the area in
question--whether arrests and prosecutions of mentally ill individuals,
veterans, persons accused of domestic violence, alleged sex offenders, or
parolees.

   Criminal law administration within specialized criminal courts generally
adopts a neo-realist jurisprudence, which its proponents call problem-solving
justice or, to my mind more accurately, problem-oriented justice.  n72 This has
led  [*1607]  some commentators to label all specialized criminal courts
interchangeably, "problem-solving courts,"  n73 a term that connotes an aim on
the part of the courts to address problems both in the legal system and in the
lives of defendants appearing before the courts.  n74

   It is noteworthy that judges themselves have been the primary driving force
behind the specialized-criminal-courts movement, working cooperatively with
prosecutors, defense counsel, and other interested elected officials to convene
specialized criminal courts. As criminal law enforcement expanded during the
latter decades of the twentieth century and many more cases entered the criminal
courts, dockets swelled.  n75 More cases meant more pressure on judges to
resolve cases quickly, leading to reduced judicial morale.  n76 In response to
their deep dissatisfaction with their own role in criminal law administration,
judges sought to devise an alternative legal institutional framework for at
least some categories of criminal cases, obtaining initially the support of
locally elected prosecutors and, subsequently, as the specialized-criminal-court
initiatives expanded, broader legislative support.  n77 In promoting specialized
court programs as a criminal law reform standard, judges and other court
advocates increasingly have collaborated with specialized court consultants,
such as the  [*1608]  Center for Court Innovation, a New York City-based
organization, and with legal academics.  n78

   State legislatures and the U.S. Congress have endorsed the specialized courts
approach by incorporating diversionary specialized court sentencing into
statutory provisions and by authorizing state and federal funding for
specialized criminal courts. In this regard, the specialized courts movement may
be understood as a widely endorsed work-around of political process defects:
whereas "tough on crime" norms make decriminalization or other downscaling of
punishment less available, specialized criminal courts allow officials to appear
"smart" rather than "soft" on crime. For example, in 2000 Congress enacted
America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project, which authorized federal
funds for states and counties to develop mental health courts and diversion
programs rather than more directly tackling the overincarceration of mentally
ill persons.  n79 Financed with a combination of state and federal funding,
mental health courts aim to address the disproportionate number of persons with
mental illness under criminal supervision and to reduce reliance on
incarceration in responding to the conduct of mentally ill individuals. Although
the first generation of mental health courts largely excluded persons charged
with violent offenses, some mental health courts now accept individuals facing
violent felony charges.  n80 Also in 2000, the Office of Justice Programs'
Reentry Court Initiative funded reentry courts to facilitate ex-convicts'
returns from prison to their respective communities of residence.  n81 Reentry
courts convene team-based efforts that typically involve a judge, a social
worker, and a mental health professional, who design a diversionary social
service supervisory regimen for parolees and help to facilitate access to
employment and housing.  n82

   Veterans courts, convened beginning in the mid-2000s, are specialized courts
established to address socially disruptive behavior on the part of veterans,
many of whom are suffering mental health problems arising from combat-related
post-traumatic stress disorder.  n83 Those accused of violent crimes are in some
instances able to participate in veterans courts, which rely on alternative
sentences involving predominately mental health and medical treatment along with
[*1609]  other services.  n84

   In contrast to drug courts, mental health courts, and veterans courts,
domestic violence courts and sex offense courts generally operate with less
reference to rehabilitative goals. Instead, domestic violence and sex offense
courts, for the most part, seek to provide individually tailored monitoring of
defendants charged and/or convicted in domestic violence or sex offense cases
and, in some instances, more meaningful service provision for complainants. But
some domestic violence and sex offense courts also seek to reduce reliance on
incarceration. Domestic violence and sex offense courts with an
incarceration-reduction mission intend for monitoring and services to serve as
an alternative to jail- or prison-based sentencing and to work to break
preexisting cycles of violence and abuse so as to limit levels of
reincarceration. As Brooklyn's Felony Domestic Violence Court Judge John
Leventhal explained:


     I saw people going to jail for two years for not paying child support,
     which is a condition of their order of protection . . . [and] I was .
     . . surprised to see such a large violation and probation calendar. I
     wanted to cut that down. How do we cut that down? We bring them back
     while they're on probation, before they're really violating in a bad
     way, to keep them on the right track. . . . For the first four years
     or five years that we were doing it, we had half the violation rate of
     the general probation population--which is incredible considering that
     you have targeted victims and people who know each other. Since then I
     think our violation rate has gone down even further.  n85


So in domestic violence courts, such as Judge Leventhal's, judicial monitoring
aims to reduce carceral sentencing, reoffending, and reincarceration, even
though these goals were not the explicit initial motivations for convening most
domestic violence courts.

   Likewise, sex offense courts have been promoted to more effectively monitor
persons accused or convicted of sex offenses.  n86 Yet, some of these courts
simultaneously seek to shift criminal law administration in sex offense cases to
[*1610]  make the criminal supervisory regime more reasonable and less likely to
result in reincarceration for technical violations. Contrary to public
perception, most convicted sex offenders receive little prison time in their
initial sentence and are subject primarily to terms of probation or a short
carceral sentence followed by parole.  n87 Still, in many jurisdictions the vast
majority of convicted sex offenders--even those charged only with an offense
stemming from public exposure or sex with a person just a few years younger than
the accused--are subject to sex offender registration and residential
restrictions that make life extremely difficult and may encourage criminal
behavior by socially isolating sex offenders.  n88 Sex offense courts permit
modifications of certain of these restrictions where doing so is thought to be
reasonable, so that the response to persons charged and convicted of sex
offenses may unfold with greater moderation and rationality.  n89 As Judge James
McCarthy, the first presiding judge of the Oswego County Sex Offense Court in
New York has explained, the ambition of his court in offering a more
individualized monitoring regime for convicted sex offenders is in part to make
it such that "the sex offender can live somewhere and work somewhere, without
being demonized, while still being closely supervised."  n90 The sex offense
courts may also be conceptualized in some instances, then, as an attempt to work
around existing criminal law regimes that appear to judges and other interested
persons to be irrational or excessively harsh, where more thoroughgoing
legislative modification is unavailable. The courts aim to devise an alternative
regime to mitigate the perceived ill effects of the conventional processes and
to develop a different approach that may have as an important side effect
reduced reliance on incarceration in response to technical violations.  n91

   There are, as of this writing, in jurisdictions across the United States,
approximately 300 mental health courts,  n92 200 domestic violence courts, and
thirty community courts, more than 2,000 drug courts, and in excess of 500
[*1611]  other specialized criminal courts including sex offense and veterans
courts.  n93 Those states with numerous specialized criminal courts span the
country, including jurisdictions as diverse as Alaska, California, Indiana, and
New York.  n94 There is no single foundational document to which all specialized
criminal courts refer, and no unified theory that captures their complicated
interrelationships and diverse projects. But although the initial impetuses for
convening specialized criminal courts differed, most of their founders share in
common the hope of devising better substantially non-carceral approaches to
criminal law administration, at least for certain categories of offenders.  n95

   Specialized criminal courts have now reached some measure of maturity and
there are at least four legal institutional and conceptual reformist models to
which the existing courts roughly correspond. In fact, what may make specialized
criminal courts politically palatable is also what makes their eventual outcome
uncertain: their form is sufficiently open so as to incorporate any or several
of these four often quite divergent reformist approaches.  n96 As a result, what
specialized criminal courts ultimately portend for U.S. criminal law remains
ambiguous, a matter over which there should be much more rigorous and reasoned
debate than has occurred to date.

   II. FOUR REFORMIST MODELS AT WORK IN SPECIALIZED CRIMINAL COURTS

   This Part introduces a typology and critical theoretical analysis of four
criminal law reformist models at work in specialized criminal courts--(a) a
therapeutic jurisprudence model; (b) a judicial monitoring model; (c) an order
maintenance model; and (d) a decarceration model--with particular emphasis on
the models' respective aspirations, potential unintended harms, and reformist
possibilities. This Part argues that, whereas the first three more predominant
models possess characteristics that threaten a range of unintended and harmful
consequences, the fourth model--a decarceration model--holds considerable
promise to facilitate broader transformative criminal law reform.  n97 The
following Part, Part III, explores in greater detail three criminal law reform
strategies that a decarceration model may set in motion.

    [*1612]  A. THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE MODEL

   Specialized criminal courts adopting a therapeutic jurisprudence model are at
work in every state in the country and increasingly in a wide range of foreign
jurisdictions.  n98 This model draws heavily on a theoretical framework
developed by law professors David Wexler and Bruce Winick.  n99 Wexler and
Winick's fundamental premise is that law may operate in ways that are
therapeutic or anti-therapeutic so as to improve or undermine people's
psychological well-being.  n100 According to Wexler and Winick, all other things
being equal, legal actors should seek to promote therapeutic outcomes over
anti-therapeutic ones. In urging attention to the therapeutic consequences of
legal arrangements, Wexler and Winick recommend: "[W]e should . . . see if the
law could be reshaped to make it into more of a healing force, a therapeutic
force."  n101

   In a certain respect, in the criminal law context a therapeutic jurisprudence
model is a repackaging of a rehabilitative theory of sentencing that also
borrows from restorative justice approaches, but therapeutic jurisprudence is
farther reaching.  n102 The judge in a therapeutic specialized criminal court
does not simply assign a sentence that aims to rehabilitate or serve a
therapeutic or restorative function. Instead, the court proceedings
themselves--whether through the judge's warm encouragement or "tough love"--are
intended to promote therapeutic outcomes. The entire legal process--in fact, the
entire institutional operation of the court as such--is to be reconceived on the
therapeutic model. Although Wexler and Winick make clear that therapeutic
concerns ought not necessarily take precedence over other considerations, they
do not provide any concrete manner to evaluate or rank therapeutic priorities
relative to other matters, leading their adherents in therapeutic criminal
courts to prioritize therapeutic concerns over others in at least certain
contexts when conflicts between contending values emerge.  n103 Accordingly, to
the extent earlier critiques leveled against rehabilitative punishment and
indeterminate sentencing may apply to a therapeutic jurisprudence model, they
apply with even greater force because, on a therapeutic jurisprudence model, the
rehabilitative or therapeutic ambition stretches beyond sentencing and
punishment to nearly every  [*1613]  aspect of the court proceedings.  n104

   Once a defendant opts into a specialized therapeutic criminal court, "all of
the major players in the courtroom--judge, prosecutor, and defense
attorney--explicitly acknowledge that the goal is to change [the defendant's]
behavior, moving [the defendant] from addiction to sobriety and from a life of
crime to law-abiding behavior."  n105 In contrast to the traditional adversarial
model of the disengaged, dispassionate judge whose primary task is to decide
cases fairly and impartially,  n106 therapeutic judges are active and engaged,
invested in acquiring expertise regarding the problems they address. On a
therapeutic model, the specialized criminal court judge--whether in a drug
court, mental health court, therapeutic sex offense court,  n107 or another type
of specialized therapeutic criminal court--engages in a direct, emotional, and
frequently effusive manner with defendants, who are often referred to as the
courts' "clients."

   In Washington, D.C.'s Mental Health Diversion Court, for example, Judge Linda
Kay Davis greets defendants by warmly asking them how they are doing and how
they are feeling.  n108 She encourages them in their accomplishments and, for a
sustained period of good behavior--clean drug tests and regular attendance of
psychotherapy--she gives them a rose, a certificate, and a coin.

   The D.C. Mental Health Diversion Court is part of the Criminal Division and
exercises jurisdiction over defendants who have been diagnosed with mental
illness and who may qualify for deferred prosecution while undergoing mental
health treatment. Many defendants in the D.C. Mental Health Diversion Court also
suffer from co-occurring drug addiction.

   In demonstrating her heartfelt concern for the defendants/clients in her
court, Judge Davis descends from the bench to deliver her gifts to those who
successfully complete her prescribed treatment program. She explains that the
coin is to remind them of their hard work, though it carries no monetary value.
In the spirit of therapeutic jurisprudence, Judge Davis asks defendants who fail
drug  [*1614]  tests or other court requirements "what the court can do to help"
and extends and intensifies their period of court supervision.  n109

   The actual therapeutic or other effects of this engagement remain uncertain.
Judge Davis, for instance, who was once a public defender at D.C.'s Public
Defender Service, conducts her court in a therapeutic manner that appears
eminently humane, though she has no formal psychotherapeutic expertise.
Illustrating the bizarre quality and uncertain psychotherapeutic impact of
merging judicial and therapeutic roles, one afternoon in mental health court,
Judge Davis greeted a defendant/client with smiles and congratulations, telling
the mentally ill defendant/client how "proud" she was of her, and how the
defendant/ client was "really doing well," about which the judge relayed
"delight." But the clerk interrupted the exchange to point out to the judge that
the day prior the defendant/client had tested positive for cocaine. Judge Davis
then desisted in her praise, extended the defendant/client's term in the
criminal supervisory program, issued a stern warning about noncompliance, and
ordered the defendant/ client to talk to the assigned therapist about the
relapse. The mentally ill defendant/client looked visibly pleased at the judge's
initial encouraging approval and then visibly distraught by the abrupt turn of
events. The defendant/ client reported to the judge directly (not through
counsel) having difficulty finding an available individual therapist to comply
with the court's orders as none were available, and she related that she was
hanging out with drug users, which made it hard for her to resist using drugs.
It appeared unclear whether the defendant/client understood that the role of the
judge was distinct from that of a mental health care provider or other
counselor. The judge listened in front of the full courtroom and then called the
next defendant/client.

   Whatever uncertainties attend Judge Davis's therapeutic courtroom
methodology--and indeed she appears compassionate and well-intentioned in her
dealings with the defendants/clients who appear before her--an additional
potential problem posed by the therapeutic jurisprudence model is that, in
promoting itself as a useful treatment approach, it may cause other criminal
justice system actors--particularly police and prosecutors--to likewise view the
court as a treatment outlet. This may lead relatively minor cases to go forward,
offenses that perhaps ought not to be prosecuted in the first instance. But
these cases come to the court for extended court proceedings rather than just
being dropped, or the defendants simply referred for treatment because the court
itself, rather than the social service organization conducting therapeutic
treatment, is understood to be a central part of the therapeutic process.

   This potential "net widening"  n110 effect of a therapeutic model of
specialized  [*1615]  criminal law administration underscores that criminal
courts are part of a working institutional and social system, not simply sites
for interpersonal conduct modification.  n111 As criminal law scholar Guyora
Binder has persuasively argued: "Punishment is not a behavior, but an
institution. It is part of a system that involves conduct norms, an
authoritative procedure for generating these norms, an authoritative procedure
for decisions to impose sanctions, and some measure of practical power over
persons or resources."  n112 When specialized criminal courts operate on a
therapeutic model they exert system-wide institutional effects, likely shaping
what cases are brought to criminal court, and to which agencies' treatment
resources are allocated. And all the while, therapeutic judges exercise
substantial power over defendants/clients.

   Given the authoritative force of therapeutic judges' determinations, a
further set of problems may arise if judges administering criminal law on a
therapeutic model believe themselves to be acting in the therapeutic interests
of the defendants/clients before them but are not as humane as Judge Davis.
Accounts of the Glynn County, Georgia Drug Court suggest that the former
presiding judge there wielded her therapeutic judicial authority with an iron
fist.  n113 For infractions as minor as a first offense of forging two checks
totaling 100 dollars, one young woman was sentenced to ten and a half years
under criminal supervision: five and one half years in the Glynn County Drug
Court, including fourteen months behind bars, and then an additional six months
locked up, followed by four and one half years on probation.  n114

   This young woman, Lindsay Dills, forged two of her father's checks, entered
the Glynn County Drug Court, missed a curfew, and failed a drug screen. As a
consequence, without further ado, she spent seven days in jail. Dills reported
that Drug Court Judge Amanda Williams "would flip out every time [Dills] went
before her. . . . [S]he was just . . . screaming . . . in court. . . . [S]he's
standing behind the bench, with a microphone and screaming . . . ."  n115 For
subsequent technical violations, such as a missed curfew or dirty urine tests,
Dills  [*1616]  reported spending 51 days, 90 days, and 104 days incarcerated,
until Judge Williams sent Dills away on an "indefinite sentence."  n116 In
Dills' own words:


     So I get to the jail house and I call my dad immediately . . . from
     the pay phone that's in the booking area. And I hear the phone ring .
     . . where the booking area is. And they answer it and I heard them
     say, "Dills." . . . So I'm on the phone and they said, "Dills hang
     that phone up." And I'm like, "OK." [S]o I turn around and the[y] tell
     me that Judge Williams has now called and ordered me to have no
     further contact: no phone, no visitation and no mail. And that I'd be
     put in their isolation cell. And I'm like, "How long?" [T]hey're like,
     "We don't know." And I'm like, "Well for the whole 28 days that I'm
     here?" And they said, "Well your order is now indefinite."
     . . . .
     . . . I cried a lot . . . . I was like, "How is this happening? How is
     this ethical? . . . Have I killed someone that I don't know about?" .
     . . But there's nothing I can do about it. Because I can't even use
     the phone. I can't even send a letter.  n117


Dills reportedly came to the attention of the jail authorities when she
attempted suicide after weeks in isolation by cutting open her wrists.  n118

   Judge Williams's interest in starting a drug court was personal: she had
addiction in her own family and believed in "tough love."  n119 Although the
National Association of Drug Court Professionals discourages such a punitive
approach, the malleability of therapeutic jurisprudence when administered by
lay-therapist judges makes it all too likely that judges will confuse therapy
with punishment and that their unchecked retributive impulses will be brought to
bear under the guise of therapeutic jurisprudence.  n120

   Such potential miscarriages of therapeutic jurisprudence expose another
significant overlooked feature of specialized criminal courts operating on a
therapeutic model. Therapeutic courts attempt to rid themselves of the various
traditional approaches to criminal law administration and
punishment--retribution, deterrence, incapacitation  n121 --in favor of a
therapeutic approach. While conventional criminal courts generally (at least in
principle) administer criminal law with self-conscious reference to a compound
of retributive, deterrent, and other  [*1617]  punishment approaches,
specialized criminal courts adopting a therapeutic cast seek to purify the
administration of criminal law to one putatively rehabilitative "therapeutic"
variant.  n122 The risk of this attempted purification is that it is difficult
to disentangle deterrent, therapeutic, and retributive impulses in criminal
punishment,  n123 and so cordoning off certain courts as purely involved in
therapeutic interventions may both misstate what is actually occurring in those
courts and undermine judicial self-consciousness about whether the punitive
effects of particular decisions are proportional to the offending conduct and no
greater than necessary to deter offending behavior.  n124 Indeed, some judges
administering specialized criminal courts on a therapeutic model label their
courts' sanctions "smart punishment" but propose that "[s]mart punishment is not
really punishment at all, but a therapeutic response."  n125

   Although the problem of disproportionate punitiveness might in principle be
resolved by having all specialized criminal courts adopt sentencing ceilings for
technical violations, courts operating on a therapeutic model embrace an
anti-formalist, problem-oriented, discretionary approach that rejects such
externally imposed, pre-fixed constraints. This model, when it comes to
predominate over other approaches to criminal law administration, thus threatens
to place judges with extraordinary power in a position where they act in what
they perceive to be defendants'/clients' therapeutic interests but with
unchecked, potentially punitive effects, unimpeded by principles of
proportionality characteristic of a retributive theory of punishment. This is
all the more troubling because these judges may lack formal psychotherapeutic
expertise and many are likely exhausted by the undoubtedly difficult work of
dealing with criminally accused addicted or mentally ill individuals, often in
under-resourced environments. The relaxation of procedural safeguards as part of
an anti-formalist, team-based,  [*1618]  therapeutic approach only stands to
exacerbate these problems if judges are not particularly conscientious.

   A further limitation of the therapeutic jurisprudence model has to do with
the difficulty of bringing a therapeutic court-based approach to scale, even
were that to be a desirable outcome--a matter on which the preceding analysis
should cast some doubt. Although the reformist potential of a therapeutic model
rests on being able to administer therapy to individual defendants through the
courts, these courts only address a small fraction of drug cases or other
relevant categories of cases in the system. As of 2005, the number of
individuals in drug court programs was 70,000, as compared to a population on
probation of about four million individuals, many of whom are drug-involved
offenders.  n126 To reach even ten percent of individuals serving a probationary
sentence, the number of therapeutic drug courts would need to increase
enormously.  n127 The Akron Mental Health Court as of 2004 handled at one time
approximately 120 clients, only a small fraction of the many thousands of
mentally ill individuals likely to be caught up in Ohio's criminal justice
system.  n128 The Louisiana Mental Health Court as of 2009 had eighty-five
participants and operated one day per week.  n129 Administering therapeutic
jurisprudence through convening separate specialized criminal courts is also
relatively costly, further decreasing the likelihood that it will be possible to
bring this model to scale even were this to be a sought-after result.

   In any event, there is considerable cause to question whether specialized
criminal courts adopting a therapeutic jurisprudence model ought to be brought
to scale given that proceedings in these courts appear to possess certain
inherent features that may tend to exacerbate some of the most troubling
problems associated with the adjudication of criminal cases in conventional
courts, including unnecessary terms of incarceration for minor or technical
violations and prevalent procedural irregularities. On a therapeutic model, any
judicial tendencies in these directions are more likely to be unchecked.

   Worse still, on a therapeutic jurisprudence model, procedural shortcutting or
unnecessary incarceration may be defended as therapeutic, rendering it less
susceptible to critical engagement.  n130 For instance, when California drug
court  [*1619]  judges wished to amend the California penal code to reduce the
privacy rights of drug court defendants/clients, one judge defended the practice
as follows: "I support a search clause for drug treatment court clients because
I think a search clause is therapeutic . . . . I don't see a search clause as a
sanction so much as an additional therapeutic intervention that will help them
succeed."  n131 The potentially problematic effects of this curtailment of
privacy are obscured by a therapeutic justificatory approach that is difficult
for non-experts to critically confront on its own terms. And even if, on
balance, relinquishing some privacy protections may be socially desirable
because it serves to reduce recidivism, casting the argument for this approach
in vague psychotherapeutic terms obscures, rather than illuminates, the relevant
considerations at stake.

   A therapeutic jurisprudence model thus does little by itself to reduce
reliance on criminal supervision and incarceration unless administered by a
judge already inclined to reduce carceral sentencing and enable other positive
interventions; and in fact, in the wrong judge's hands, a therapeutic approach
may cause significant harm. Reliance on jail sentences as a sanction for
noncompliance with treatment or other technical requirements can actually result
in substantial carceral penalties.  n132 Potential net widening effects
associated with placing criminal courts in the role of administering therapeutic
interventions also threatens to increase criminal case filings and, hence,
overall levels of criminal supervision and quite possibly incarceration.  n133
Although a therapeutic jurisprudence model nonetheless appeals to many because
it repackages (and resurrects) a rehabilitative sentencing approach, it does so
with considerable risk of engendering a variety of unintended and undesirable
consequences, both for rule of  [*1620]  law principles and for the persons it
is intended to benefit.

   The answer to these problems is to disentangle reformist criminal law
administration from a particular set of predefined therapeutic jurisprudential
commitments and instead to experiment with jurisprudential content so as to
reduce reliance on incarceration and to divert cases to other sectors that may
more meaningfully address social goals. The appropriate reconceptualization for
the courts is as a strategy to enable decarceration, their unifying feature
being that they are experimenting with criminal law administration to reduce
carceral sentencing in favor of preferable approaches rather than adapting a
therapeutic methodology for criminal law. But before turning to a decarceration
model, it remains in the following sections to explore the other predominant
reformist models at work in specialized criminal courts.

   B. JUDICIAL MONITORING MODEL

   The defining characteristic of specialized criminal courts operating on a
judicial monitoring model is that they rely primarily on judges to engage in
monitoring of defendants or participants who may be asked to submit to urine
tests and curfews and to attend court appointments as often as several times per
week.  n134 The theoretical basis of the judicial monitoring model is that
intensified judicially administered criminal surveillance will reduce future
misconduct, at lesser cost than incarceration, and with greater efficacy than
conventional probation or parole. As distinct from the therapeutic jurisprudence
model, specialized criminal courts operating exclusively on a judicial
monitoring model do not aim to generate therapeutic outcomes through courtroom
proceedings. Instead, the judge is empowered to closely monitor defendants'
compliance with court mandates in a manner akin to a probation or parole
officer. On the judicial monitoring model, the court retains jurisdiction to
monitor the defendant/ participant during pretrial proceedings. And when the
court assigns a non-carceral sentence, the judge mandates reporting back to the
court on a regular basis.

   The impetus for judicial monitoring courts arose largely due to an acute
sense of the limits of conventional probation and other non-carceral forms of
criminal supervision. Although probation is by far the most common criminal
sanction in the United States,  n135 with caseloads of up to 1,000 probationers
per officer, the degree of supervision is frequently minimal.  n136 Judicial
monitoring aims to improve supervision by transferring authority to judges to
monitor defendants. This transfer, it is hoped, will reduce recidivism and
thereby reduce incarceration.

    [*1621]  Two examples of specialized criminal courts operating primarily on
the judicial monitoring model are domestic violence courts and sex offense
courts, though certain drug courts and other specialized criminal courts also
function primarily as judicial monitoring bodies. Intensive monitoring of
defendants in domestic violence cases aims to encourage greater compliance with
protective orders and attendance of anger management trainings.  n137 Judicial
monitoring sex offense courts likewise supervise defendants' compliance with
court mandates and mandatory treatment.  n138 A judicial monitoring model as
applied to drug courts extends judicial supervision over drug offenders. In some
jurisdictions' drug courts, judicial monitoring is coupled with a therapeutic
jurisprudential approach. In other jurisdictions it is not.  n139

   Although judicial monitoring relies in part on technological devices to
facilitate monitoring, the judicial role shifts in these courts in ways that
pose considerable risks of judicial overreaching, expanded surveillance, and
increased incarceration for technical violations. Due to the large numbers of
criminal cases disposed of with probationary sentences--and the tremendous
capacity of the defense, computer, and electronic industries--there is an
extensive market for electronic monitoring, voice verification systems, and
inexpensive on-site drug testing on which monitoring may rely.  n140 But the
central feature of judicial monitoring, as opposed to probation or parole, is
that the judge plays an active role in overseeing surveillance of defendants.
And once a judge becomes the monitor of defendants' compliance with court
orders, the judge's role changes from one of, at least in principle,
adjudicative neutrality to more active investigative supervision on behalf of
the state. Simultaneously, a judicial monitoring model threatens to expand,
rather than reduce, levels of criminal supervision and at least short-term
incarceration because more intensive supervision increases the likelihood of
identifying technical violations, which increases the likelihood of short-term
incarceration. This increased likelihood is true particularly because, in many
judicial monitoring courts, incarceration is the default penalty for technical
violations that do not even rise to the level of criminally chargeable
misconduct.  n141

   One particularly striking example of the judicial role transformation and
expanded criminal surveillance associated with the judicial monitoring model can
be found in the ethnographic work of sociologist James Nolan, who undertook
several multi-year studies of drug courts and other specialized criminal courts.
As related in this Article's introduction, in Judge McKinney's Syracuse, New
York drug court, Nolan found that judicial monitoring empowered  [*1622]  the
judge to delegate reporting authority to the defendant's employer, to whom Judge
McKinney promised a deal: "[Y]ou take [the defendant] back and I'll add another
weapon to your arsenal. If he doesn't come to work when he is supposed to,
doesn't come to work on time . . . I'll put him in jail, on your say so."  n142
Invasive judicial monitoring of this sort may result in part from the court's
understanding of itself as engaged purely in deterrent conduct-shaping
monitoring rather than punishment. As on the therapeutic jurisprudence model,
which is (ostensibly) solely rehabilitative in its focus, on the judicial
monitoring model specialized criminal courts seek to purify their approach to a
solely deterrence-based framework. But as with the neo-rehabilitative approach
of the therapeutic jurisprudence model, the judicial monitoring model is
unconstrained by concerns of proportionality and operates without
self-consciousness of its potentially punitive and overreaching, rather than
purely deterrent, effects. Also, because the judicial monitoring model treats
the unconstrained authority of the judge to solve problems as central to its
mission, it is no solution simply to constrain sanctions for technical
violations to those that would have been available had the defendant gone
through the conventional process or to those that would otherwise be
proportional to particular sorts of violations.

   Further, because a judicial monitoring model is frequently dominant in
specialized courts where retributive responses are likely to be triggered--such
as domestic violence and sex offense courts--the threat of punitive judicial
overreaching in carrying out purportedly purely deterrent monitoring is of
special concern.  n143 In other words, whereas the therapeutic approach tends to
dominate in courts addressing more sympathetic cases--those involving drug
addicts, veterans, or the mentally ill--the punitive excesses of judicial
monitoring threaten to surface with particular force given that the model plays
a central role in courts with less conventionally sympathetically received
defendants. There is even a risk that the monitoring courts will become
partially insulated from conventional adversarial advocacy because they are
specialized anti-formalist, team-oriented courts, and judicial monitoring will
serve as a vehicle for enhanced punitiveness for unpopular classes of
defendants: those charged with domestic violence or sex offenses, for example.

   In addition to the liberty-infringing risks posed by courts operating on a
judicial monitoring model, there remain fundamental questions about the ability
of such courts to reduce recidivism and achieve other desired ends.  n144 Part
of the motivation for court specialization is that judges in a specialized
judicial monitoring court may become experts with regard to the particular
offense at  [*1623]  issue.  n145 But problems arise when judges believe they
possess special expertise about a single best approach to monitoring an issue
when in fact there is profound uncertainty as to how best to handle such
matters. For example, there is preliminary empirical evidence that a judicial
monitoring approach is less effective than might be anticipated in reducing
recidivism in domestic violence cases. A study of the Bronx Misdemeanor Domestic
Violence Court tracked randomly assigned groups of offenders who received
varying combinations of judicial monitoring and batterer's intervention.  n146
The differential rates of recidivism of violent conduct among the groups
(including those who received no judicial monitoring or other intervention) were
not statistically significant.  n147 This result suggests that the routine
judicial monitoring interventions of the domestic violence court--batterer's
intervention and court monitoring--may have limited success in reducing the
incidence of domestic violence.  n148 So while in at least one jurisdiction
domestic violence recidivism remained unchanged, substantial resources were
devoted to a judicial monitoring regime that threatens to significantly
transform the role of the judge with other uncertain and potentially undesirable
effects.  n149

   What is more, in the reentry context at least, a judicial monitoring model
has been associated with substantial increases in reincarceration for technical
violations. A study of the Harlem Parole Reentry Court's initial judicial
monitoring program found that "[t]echnical revocations occurred more frequently
for Reentry Court participants than comparison parolees" for all three years of
the study--an effect the Court's researchers ascribe to a "supervision effect"
n150 (that is, increased discovery of punishable violations produced by
increased supervision). Thus, the Harlem Parole Reentry Court study reflects
that a judicial monitoring approach threatens to increase incarceration for
technical  [*1624]  violations, such as missed curfews or other failures to
conform with the court's monitoring orders.  n151

   These findings are consistent with the best available evidence regarding
"intensive supervision programs" (ISP) during an earlier period of
experimentation with intensive criminal surveillance. Monitoring aimed at
deterrence, when uncoupled from a substantial rehabilitative component, tends
strongly to expand incarceration with little in the way of countervailing
benefits. According to Stanford criminologist Joan Petersilia, who is among the
country's leading experts on intermediate sanctions, the:


     [E]mpirical evidence regarding intermediate sanctions is decisive:
     Without a rehabilitation component, reductions in recidivism are
     elusive. In sum . . . programs were seldom used for prison diversion
     but rather to increase accountability and supervision of serious
     offenders on probation. In addition, programs did not reduce new
     crimes, but instead increased the discovery of technical violations
     and ultimately increased incarceration rates and system costs.  n152

   The ineffectiveness of judicial monitoring may be further aggravated if
judicial monitoring negatively influences defendants' perceptions of legitimacy
of the courts. Diminished perceptions of procedural fairness on the part of
defendants in judicial monitoring courts may actually undermine compliance with
court orders by fostering resentment and exacerbating recidivism.  n153

   So as with the therapeutic jurisprudence model, on the judicial monitoring
model the role of the judge expands, potentially dramatically beyond its
traditional bounds. Surveillance increases. Procedural protections are curtailed
to enable judicial monitoring. And there is no overriding commitment to avoid
incarceration in the instance of discovery of technical violations. As a
consequence, increased periods of at least short-term incarceration threaten to
follow, even if only as a product of technical violations, and the reach of the
criminal  [*1625]  law threatens to radically expand.  n154 Monitoring that is
not merely extending surveillance for its own sake must attend to what forms of
surveillance actually promote socially desirable outcomes by eliminating crime
and reducing incarceration. This is, in significant part, the ambition of a
decarceration model, to which we will turn after exploring the order maintenance
model--the final criminal law reformist model commonly at work in specialized
criminal courts.

   C. ORDER MAINTENANCE MODEL

   The third widely occurring criminal law reformist model operative in
specialized criminal courts seeks to advance order maintenance by convening
local tribunals devoted to prosecutions of relatively minor quality-of-life
crimes. Although the general goal of specialized criminal courts was to address
the impacted and poor quality of conventional criminal law administration by
shifting cases out of conventional courts into specialized courts, in the view
of some advocates, "in many cases, the current system works just fine" such as
in handling "murders, rapes, and robberies;" they believed that alternatives for
prosecution of more serious offenses would be inappropriate.  n155 Consequently,
efforts focused on minor crimes--"prostitution, low-level drug possession, and
disorderly conduct"--that conventional criminal courts were otherwise inclined
to ignore.  n156

   The theoretical framework underlying the order maintenance model is largely
derived from the broken windows approach to policing. The broken windows, or
order maintenance, hypothesis maintains that minor physical and social
disorder--turnstile jumping, marijuana use, public drinking--if not addressed,
contributes to more serious crime.  n157 A specialized order maintenance
criminal court responds to public order violations by initially assigning
intermediate  [*1626]  sanctions such as community service. It is hoped that
imposition of these sanctions, in turn, will improve perceptions of the law's
legitimacy and hence social order. The theory, as applied to specialized
criminal courts, holds that, as a consequence of prosecuting public order
offenses, crime overall will decline and, with it, more general reliance on
criminal arrests and incarceration.  n158

   Along these lines, community courts, the quintessential order maintenance
courts, aim to improve social order by providing a venue for the prosecution of
relatively minor quality-of-life offenses occurring in a delimited geographic
area.  n159 Incarceration is imposed only if a defendant is noncompliant with
intermediate sanctions or if his offense is relatively serious. Generally,
misdemeanor defendants are able to opt in to courts operating on an order
maintenance model rather than being mandatorily assigned.  n160

   In addition to community courts, other specialized criminal courts may also
operate on an order maintenance model. For example, drug courts operating on an
order maintenance approach provide a local forum for prosecuting lower-level
drug offenses that would otherwise receive minimal attention in conventional
criminal courts.

   There are three supposed advantages to an order maintenance model of
specialized criminal court administration, all of which fail to withstand close
scrutiny. First, proponents suggest that these courts will increase potential
offenders' perceptions of the criminal law's legitimacy and, hence, will
increase law-abiding behavior overall.  n161 This is thought to be the case
because the courts assign presumably more meaningful non-carceral sanctions.
n162 But order maintenance courts are often perceived as harsher and less
legitimate than conventional courts in their response to public order
violations. Community courts are less inclined to dismiss cases with "time
served" sentences, and where jail time is imposed, it is for longer periods.
n163 Further, community service sentences will not necessarily be perceived as
more legitimate than jail  [*1627]  sentences. One sex worker sentenced at the
Midtown Community Court explained: "Community service is all day--cleaning
toilets and stuffing envelopes . . . ."  n164 Rather than improving perceptions
of legitimacy, routine reliance on community service of this sort as a sanction
may reduce opportunities for paid work in a jurisdiction and cause further
economic hardship for defendants. The onerous requirements of unpaid community
service work coupled with associated fines may even increase pressures to
participate in criminalized markets.

   A second purported advantage of an order maintenance model is that it will
reduce reliance on conventional carceral sentencing, instead introducing more
effective and beneficial intermediate sanctions, like community service. But
when defendants fail to comply with intermediate sanctions, they are often
punished with at least short-term incarceration. Indeed, empirical analyses
establish that increased short-term incarceration is the unintended outcome of
at least some courts operating on an order maintenance model.  n165

   Additionally, in a manner distinct from that of therapeutic courts, order
maintenance courts widen the net of infractions addressed by criminal courts
because they focus primarily on low-level misdemeanor offenses, which otherwise
would receive less attention: disorderly conduct prosecutions are commonplace in
order maintenance courts for pedicab drivers' obstruction of crosswalks or
unlicensed vending of t-shirts or otherwise licit goods.  n166 This net widening
tendency is consistent with the findings of Professors Michael Tonry and Norval
Morris, who demonstrated in their famous study of intermediate sanctions that
"[w]hen an intermediate choice is offered it will tend to be filled more by
those previously treated more leniently than by those previously treated
[*1628]  more severely."  n167 This is not to suggest that intermediate
sanctions are never appropriate but rather that there is a risk of net widening
where such sanctions are made available and order maintenance courts stand to
considerably expand the class of offenses subject to criminal prosecution by
emphasizing offenses that would otherwise be unlikely targets for prosecution.
As a result of this net widening tendency, an order maintenance model threatens
to expand criminal supervision and increase short-term incarceration when
individuals are unable to comply with intermediate sanctions.

   Whether other beneficial effects on local neighborhoods follow from this net
widening criminal law enforcement remains uncertain. According to Portland's
district attorney Mike Schrunk, a proponent of Portland's order maintenance
specialized criminal court, as a prosecutor "[y]ou tend to blow off" turnstile
jumping or petty shoplifting because they are "not as important as rape and
robbery."  n168 Yet, Schrunk justifies emphasis on these minor offenses in order
maintenance courts on the grounds that "what really drives people out of a
neighborhood or makes a neighborhood rot from the inner core is the small, petty
stuff."  n169 But it is not entirely clear why turnstile jumping, unless
absolutely pervasive and reckless, would undermine the quality of life in a
particular neighborhood. Although petty shoplifting is perhaps more harmful to
local businesses, it is not apparent why such offenses must be prosecutorial
priorities in order to obtain a satisfactory level of respect for private
property in targeted neighborhoods. For instance, local business organizations
could instead encourage store owners to adopt store policies that render goods
less readily subject to theft. In fact, the available evidence indicates that
police arrest less than one percent of all shoplifters.  n170 Shoplifters are
most likely to steal products, such as clothing, CDs, and DVDs, which are
"concealable, removable, available, valuable, enjoyable, and disposable."  n171
Placing unremovable security tags on these products and/or storing them in
locked shelving units, along with other store design and stock control measures,
substantially reduce the opportunity to shoplift.  n172 For these reasons, store
owners and the public at large would likely be better served by adopting
environmental and business practices that reduce the incidence of shoplifting
rather than investing large sums of public resources in prosecuting some small
percentage of these offenses (that are so minor as to otherwise command little
prosecutorial attention) in specialized order maintenance courts. Of course,
this alternative approach transfers the costs of addressing petty crime in part
from tax payers to business owners, but the business costs of merchandising and
related policies are not prohibitive and there is  [*1629]  strong reason to
believe they would prove both more effective and less costly overall.  n173

   What's more, although there may be positive effects associated with devoting
attention to disruptive conduct that residents of affected areas care about--for
instance, the prevalence of street prostitution may cause more sexual harassment
of all women and girls--there are also significant potential negative, systemic
consequences generated by bringing more people under criminal supervision than
would otherwise occur. In particular, net widening may cause criminal courts'
dockets to become further impacted. In Denver, Colorado, for example, the number
of drug cases filed in the Denver District Court grew radically after the
introduction of a drug court program dedicated to prosecuting low-level drug
offenses--effectively an order maintenance drug court model--as police and
prosecutors perceived the courts to be capable of handling the sort of minor
offenses that would previously not have been pursued. During 1993, the last full
year before the Denver Drug Court convened, 1,047 drug cases were filed, but
during the second year of the Court's existence, in 1996, there were 3,017
filings. Judge Morris Hoffman of the Denver criminal court reported that the
Denver Drug Court "caused police to make arrests in, and prosecutors to file,
the kinds of ten- and twenty- dollar hand-to-hand drug cases that the system
simply would not have bothered with before."  n174 Ultimately, in large measure
for this reason, Denver abandoned its Drug Court in 2003 and did away with order
maintenance drug law administration.  n175

   Expanding the range of individuals subject to criminal prosecution in order
maintenance courts is not simply a matter of burdening court dockets. Net
widening produces other broader, systemic pressures: when offenders do not
comply with intermediate sanctions administered by order maintenance courts,
they are subject to short-term incarceration. Subsequently, even those offenders
who receive only thirty-day jail sentences often cycle back through the criminal
[*1630]  courts, trapped in a never-ending series of criminal supervisory
sentences, such that these minor law breakers end up "doing life in prison,
thirty days at a time."  n176 This pattern imposes tremendous costs on the
public and often irreparably disrupts the lives of accused minor law breakers
and their families.

   A final benefit noted by supporters of an order maintenance model, and of
community courts in particular, involves the courts' revival of local democratic
participation in criminal law administration. While democracy is not an
unqualified good for criminal law--indeed, democratic processes have often
resulted in later-regretted criminal law and policy outcomes--democratic
excesses could in principle be restrained by confining community participation
to discrete localities in which the members would themselves internalize the
costs of favored policies.  n177 The local democratic potential of community
courts is thought to derive from the involvement of community members in setting
the courts' priorities, the local access to community court judges, and more
general increased accessibility and transparency of the courts. Yet, the actual
democratic potential of order maintenance community courts is unclear given
that, as multiple studies indicate, only a small number of often relatively
wealthy or unusually vocal individuals participate actively in community court
programs.  n178 In fact, there is some evidence that these courts may serve to
advance the interests of a moneyed minority interest group in furthering
gentrification to improve property values.  n179 And while gentrification may be
a positive force in these neighborhoods--engendering improved neighborhood
quality of life and increasing property values--it is nonetheless questionable
whether associated court reform desirably reconstitutes local democratic
practices in criminal law administration. Control of a local criminal law
enforcement agenda by a few relatively powerful outspoken community members
hardly represents a robust form of local democratization of criminal law,
whatever may or may not be the  [*1631]  other advantages of gentrification.
n180

   In summary, the criminal law reformist benefits ascribed to an order
maintenance model are uncertain, and this approach poses a significant risk of
generating otherwise harmful consequences.

   D. DECARCERATION MODEL

   A decarceration model is committed foremost to reducing reliance on
incarceration and to a sociologically and empirically informed framework that
links court participants to local social services and other institutions,
shifting the management of socially disruptive conduct in part from criminal
courts to other sectors. The ultimate aim of a decarceration model, as applied
to specialized criminal courts, is to isolate those crimes for which
conventional criminal law administration may be most fitting, contributing
gradually to the de facto decriminalization of certain categories of conduct and
enabling alternative non-carceral regulatory approaches to a range of social
ills where criminalization remains appropriate. The basic premise underlying a
decarceration model in the specialized courts context is that
overcriminalization and overincarceration are in part structural problems, which
specialized criminal courts may begin to address.

   Because a decarceration model aims to reduce reliance on incarceration while
achieving other social goals, the model endeavors to respond to the forces that
led incarceration rates to rise so precipitously in the first instance and that
cause them to remain so high. The explanations for large-scale incarceration are
various, but there is general agreement that criminal law and policy contributed
significantly to the growth in incarceration.  n181 Expanded sentences for drug
convictions perpetuated a significant portion of the increase in state prisoners
beginning in the late 1980s, and, subsequently, much of that growth has been
attributable to increased penalties for violent crimes, predominantly robbery
and assaults, and "public order" offenses.  n182 As a result, criminal law and
policy changes stand to contribute substantially to decarceration, but one
single policy intervention will be insufficient to bring about any extensive
decrease in imprisonment. Instead, the scholarly consensus suggests that prison
commitments must be reduced and prison release increased and return to prison
after parole failure decreased.  n183 Obstacles to achieving these ends, which I
will touch upon only briefly because they are thoroughly explored elsewhere,
include: the difficulty of legislatively retreating from the "pathological
politics" of  [*1632]  overcriminalization and overincarceration;  n184 the
organizational cultures of police and prosecutors' offices that encourage
vigorous enforcement of existing criminal laws;  n185 fiscal constraints that
limit available funds for social service alternatives to incarceration; reduced
judicial authority under determinant sentencing laws; resistance of interest
group lobbies, such as victims' rights groups and prison guards unions; a
limited role for less politicized expert input in criminal law and
policy-making; and belief in the efficacy or at least unavoidability of
criminalization and incarceration.  n186 A decarceration model may function to
circumvent and begin to reshape some of these barriers.

   Courts operating predominately on a decarceration model circumvent some of
the legislative impediments to changing substantive criminal law by working
cooperatively with prosecutors, police, defense counsel, and elected officials
at the local level to shift cases out of the conventional criminal courts.
Without requiring legislative repeal of particular criminal statutes, these
courts provide a venue for suspending or dropping criminal charges in drug
cases, a range of misdemeanor cases, and, in some instances, even in cases
involving more serious felony charges as well as in a range of matters involving
mentally ill offenders and veterans. A decarceration approach seeks to locate
alternative fora for responding to these matters, and then when the courts have
obtained a certain measure of broad-based support, legislators are able to enact
statutes that legitimize and institutionalize the decarceration regime. This
method has proven to be more politically viable than seeking directly to
decriminalize particular conduct, and alternative diversionary court approaches
have garnered considerable public support.  n187

   In their day-to-day operations on a decarceration model, courts act as
diversionary clearinghouses for social service resources, ensuring the
assignment of individual defendants to those resources. Careful empirical
monitoring tracks on an ongoing basis court outcomes to ensure that
incarceration is actually reduced  [*1633]  and to ascertain the effect of
various alternative sanctions and services on participants and other relevant
variables.  n188

   At least in some jurisdictions, courts adopting a decarceration model assume
jurisdiction over those charged with, or convicted of, more serious felony
offenses.  n189 This is critical to reducing reliance on incarceration and
avoiding net widening because many nonviolent misdemeanor offenses are already
dealt with through non-carceral sentences in the conventional courts.  n190 To
the extent courts adopting a decarceration approach address accused offenders
who might otherwise receive probationary sentences, the diversionary programming
orders issued may make it less, rather than more, likely that defendants will be
subject to incarceration in the future by facilitating opportunities for
law-abiding livelihoods.

   The theoretical framework that informs the decarceration model focuses on
deploying social structures separate from criminal law administrative
components--such as local neighborhood networks, business organizations, and
mental health, public health, job training, and other social services--to reduce
criminal offending and to foster socially constructive citizenship behaviors.
The foundational idea is that social institutions outside the criminal law
context are critical to the maintenance of social order and to organizing
informal surveillance. Correspondingly, a shift away from current carceral
practices will be enabled by bolstering opportunities for social integration and
institutional involvement, particularly for those persons with otherwise limited
access to such conventional social institutions.  n191

   There is wide-ranging empirical and theoretical support for this structural
[*1634]  approach. One interesting early contribution comes from the work of
Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck, married co-authors employed at Harvard Law School
from the late 1920s to the 1950s, who conducted a seminal study of the lives of
500 Boston juvenile delinquents.  n192 The Gluecks found that although most of
the cohort ceased committing crime after turning twenty-five, a small minority
persisted in criminal involvement. Decades later Harvard sociologist Robert
Sampson and criminologist John Laub reexamined the Gluecks' data to determine if
there were any criteria distinguishable from the early lives and criminal
offending of those men who went on to become persistently criminally involved
over the course of their lives.  n193 Sampson and Laub could not identify any
factors present during childhood or adolescence that differentiated those young
men who would pose a continuing menace and those who would desist from criminal
activity following adolescence.  n194 There were, however, "turning points" in
the men's lives--obtaining and maintaining employment and establishing contacts
with conventional institutions and groups--that distinguished those who
continued to commit crime from those that did not.  n195 Further, men who had
been incarcerated in prison were substantially more likely to continue to
[*1635]  offend than men who served only local jail time or probation.  n196
These factors--rather than personality characteristics, early offense
characteristics, childhood experiences, or other factors--appeared to
differentiate the perpetual offenders from those that went on to lead relatively
law-abiding lives.  n197

   Additional support for the hypothesis that social engagement and
institutional involvement, or group-level effects, cause reduced criminal
offending derives from a significant body of further studies linking structural
context and the prevalence of effective social organizations with decreased
interpersonal violence and neighborhood disorder.  n198 As important, this
theory accords with known social facts about the world: social
institutions--employers, community organizations, families--convey social
expectations and informally surveil those who participate in them. In a
neighborhood where these institutions are functioning effectively, people tend
to be discouraged and inhibited from engaging in criminalized pursuits, and they
will tend to have access to social supports in the event they find themselves
struggling with addiction or other personal challenges.  n199

   Nevertheless, it is important to acknowledge that social institutional
engagement will not serve to dissuade all persons from criminal conduct, and
some conventional social institutions may even be criminogenic.  n200 Indeed,
employed persons operating in firmly established institutional contexts
perpetrate fraud, embezzle funds, and harm others.  n201 But conventional
institutional engagement provides some significant constraint on particular
sorts of criminal offending  [*1636]  and lacks the criminogenic and other
harmful characteristics associated with prison or jail.

   On a decarceration model, then, given the severe harms associated with
large-scale incarceration and the compelling evidence that social institutional
engagement may address certain commonly criminally prosecuted forms of socially
disruptive conduct more effectively than incarceration, non-carceral sentencing
is preferred. The only circumstances under which a carceral sentence would be
imposed in a specialized criminal court adopting a pure decarceration model
would be where there is substantial reason to believe incarceration is necessary
to protect public safety or is otherwise necessary in the interests of justice.
And to the extent there is doubt as to this determination, on a pure
decarceration model that doubt would be resolved in favor of non-carceral
sentencing unless and until incarceration becomes necessary.  n202 In such
instances--for example, in cases of serious violent crime where the defendant is
adjudged mentally well and that individual's prior record and most recent
criminal conduct suggests a serious ongoing risk to public safety--it is
unlikely a defendant would be referred to a specialized diversionary court in
the first place. Were that to occur, however, the case would be referred back to
the conventional court. Though these determinations are inevitably complicated
and involve assessment of uncertain risks, serious violent and dangerous
defendants who would continue to pose a grave threat--even if subject to an
alternative socially integrative sentencing regime of mental health treatment,
job placement, and social service reporting--are a substantially smaller
demographic than that of the current population incarcerated in the United
States.  n203

   A decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration operates
with reference to this framework, seeking to facilitate greater non-carceral
social institutional integration of persons accused of an array of criminal
offenses. But apart from this commitment to attempting to reduce criminal
involvement by improving access to other social institutions, a decarceration
model is untethered from any highly specified jurisprudential or institutional
content. Its sole unifying feature is that of closely empirically monitored
[*1637]  experimentation with criminal law administrative alternatives so as to
reduce reliance on incarceration consistent with maintenance of public safety
and to forge a more sociologically and empirically oriented criminal justice
framework.

   Courts adopting a pure decarceration approach would reject the court-based
therapeutic methods of certain specialized criminal courts and the commitment to
judicial monitoring as a scalable manner of deterring criminal conduct. A focus
on order maintenance is abandoned too on a decarceration model, along with the
associated commitment to broken windows policing. The purpose of a decarceration
approach--more conducive to adoption by conventional courts than reformist
approaches that entail providing therapy in a courtroom context or transforming
judges into probation officers, though certainly not typical of traditionally
conceived courts--is to oversee the adequate provision of services to the class
of defendants referred to those services and appearing before the diversionary
courts, predominately by monitoring the service providers. This is a role
somewhat familiar to courts from the structural reform litigation context.  n204

   Critically, courts adopting a decarceration model are experimentalist
institutions that are open to revision in light of ongoing empirical
feedback--they are unfinished, self-correcting, reformist organizations. The
aspiration of a decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration
is to bring about criminal law reform incrementally, revising policies in
response to input from defendants, judges, prosecutors, public defenders, and
empirical monitoring entities.  n205 In this sense, a decarceration model is
decidedly unfinished, promising gradual reform rather than a bold new program
fully specified in advance.  n206

   A further advantage of a decarceration model is that it works to reduce
reliance on incarceration while closely attending to the particular needs and
[*1638]  risks associated with specific populations of defendants. The hope is
that this will free up resources currently allocated to criminal law
administration and make them available for other sectors better suited to
addressing the relevant underlying problems. This may help to negotiate (if not
to entirely avoid) the decarceration trap that Professors Robert Weisberg and
Joan Petersilia have cautioned against: the "grave risk of backfire if advocates
attempt to reduce mass incarceration simply for the sake of reduction rather
than coupling advocacy with a full consideration of the causes of recidivism."
n207 Because, as Weisberg and Petersilia warn, "even if small increases in crime
by released prisoners . . . are not statistically meaningful, they may reignite
the political demagoguery that contributed to mass incarceration in the first
place."  n208 A decarceration model functions in an incrementalist fashion to
reduce reliance on incarceration by experimenting with alternatives closely
tailored to the needs of populations currently subject to criminal supervision
while attending to the causes of recidivism and creating a record of
demonstrated positive results.

   A decarceration model also promises to attend to the risk of
"transinstitutionalization," which Professor Bernard Harcourt has identified
with regard to mentally ill incarcerated persons.  n209
Transinstitutionalization refers to the disastrous experience encountered during
the earlier attempt to deinstitutionalize persons living in mental hospitals
without accounting in any meaningful way for their integration elsewhere.
Following the deinstitutionalization of hospitals for the mentally ill in the
1960s and 1970s, many persons released from mental institutions either became
homeless or were later reinstitutionalized in prisons and jails.  n210 A
decarceration model works to avoid this outcome of transferring persons from one
total carceral institution (prison or jail) to another total institution (for
example, a psychiatric hospital) by collaborating closely with, monitoring, and
shifting resources to a continuum of networked though independent and mostly
nonresidential service providers that address housing, mental health, medical,
and employment needs of low-income persons in a given delimited geographic area.
n211

   It is imperative to underscore, though, that in diverting certain categories
of cases and defendants to sectors outside the criminal law administrative
context, a decarceration approach should be understood as a partial strategy for
decarceration, not necessarily as a permanent criminal law administrative
fixture nor as a comprehensive solution to the problems of overcriminalization
and overincarceration.  [*1639]  Rather, the decarceration model's more modest
goal is to shift the management of social disorder, where possible, from
criminal courts, probation or parole offices, jails, and prisons to a range of
other institutions. Invariably, violent and otherwise criminal conduct will
continue to intrude upon people's lives, and conventional criminal law
administration will play a role, however imperfect, in responding to that
conduct. A decarceration model promises to minimize such conduct, focus
conventional criminal law resources where they seem most plainly called for, and
begin to respond to the problems of overcriminalization and overincarceration by
enlisting other social institutions more fully in managing social disorder.
Documented successful diversion of some cases may form the basis for subsequent
decriminalization of certain conduct (for instance of particular drug offenses),
while other offenses may entail harm that warrants a retained norm of
criminalization (particularly where theft or violence is involved) even as
successful diversion may support substantially reduced reliance on incarceration
for that category of offense or offender.

   The remainder of this section will explore how different existing specialized
criminal courts are functioning or could and should function on a decarceration
model. The criminal law reformist possibilities of a decarceration model are
further explored in Part III. Objections to a specialized criminal law reform
strategy more generally are considered in Part IV.

   Although many mental health courts adopt some combination of a therapeutic
jurisprudence and judicial monitoring approach, mental health courts may also
embrace a decarceration model, shifting resources for mentally ill persons from
the criminal courts, jails, and prisons to other sectors. Mental health courts
operating on a decarceration model seek to remove mentally ill individuals from
conventional criminal processing to a forum where the focus is on addressing
holistically relevant needs so as to prevent subsequent criminal offending.

   There is tremendous potential to accomplish significant decarceration by
addressing mentally ill individuals' socially disruptive conduct outside the
context of conventional criminal law administration. Roughly 500,000 mentally
ill people are incarcerated in prisons and jails in the United States.  n212
Among the most common mental illnesses U.S. prisoners suffer are schizophrenia
and bipolar disorder, both of which are amenable in many cases to effective
psychiatric intervention.  n213

    [*1640]  For the mentally ill, incarceration is frequently brutal and
devastating and conditions of confinement routinely worsen rather than improve
the relevant mental illnesses and associated disorderly conduct.  n214 As the
U.S. Supreme Court explained in Brown v. Plata: In California, "[b]ecause of a
shortage of treatment beds, suicidal inmates may be held for prolonged periods
in telephone-booth sized cages without toilets."  n215 The Court included this
image of the holding cages used for mentally ill individuals in California
prisons  n216:

 See Image

    [*1641]  The majority opinion in Plata continued:


     A psychiatric expert reported observing an inmate who had been held in
     such a cage for nearly 24 hours, standing in a pool of his own urine,
     unresponsive and nearly catatonic. Prison officials explained they had
     "no place to put him."  n217


The brutality of these conditions entailed by incarcerating large numbers of
mentally ill individuals, often in response to relatively minor offending
criminal conduct, is sufficiently apparent as to require little further
explication.

   By contrast, on a decarceration model, mental health court teams--composed of
a judge, prosecutor, defense counsel, social worker, and psychologist--work to
identify mentally ill individuals who may be removed from conventional criminal
carceral sentencing to alternative programming without excessive risk to public
safety, leading Professor Shauhin Talesh to refer to mental health courts
generally as "dynamic risk managers."  n218 Then, mental health court teams work
to locate sustainable psychiatric treatment, sustainable housing arrangements,
and meaningful activity of some sort for participants to undertake.  n219 Mental
health courts operating on a decarceration model monitor provision of mental
health treatment and other services to defendants.  n220 The service providers
themselves have an informal surveiling function, and the courts only need to
intervene to conduct a revocation hearing or to increase service levels or
monitoring if a defendant reveals himself or herself to pose a substantial
danger to others.  n221 The courts use outside referrals to apply a combination
of risk assessment tools to develop programmatic interventions, including
actuarial models to identify risk factors and more individualized  [*1642]
clinical assessment.  n222 Perfect compliance with treatment and other orders is
not expected, and incarceration is used only as a last resort when all other
lenient policies relating to noncompliance have failed.  n223 There is evidence
that diversionary mental health courts may reduce reliance on incarceration in
managing mentally ill persons, reduce reliance on in-patient psychiatric
treatment, and improve access to housing for program participants.  n224

   Veterans courts operating on a decarceration model would similarly obtain
local cooperation to manage the cases of referred veterans through non-carceral
sentencing, such as through referral to Veterans Affairs programs as in the case
of Eifert recounted in this Article's introduction.  n225 If community courts
are to function on a decarceration model, they would need to limit their
jurisdiction to matters in which defendants would otherwise likely be subject to
incarceration.  n226

   Drug courts may function on a decarceration model, accomplishing some measure
of de facto decriminalization by sentencing drug-involved defendants to
treatment and non-revocable or revocation-limited probation. When state
legislatures pass drug court acts or related legislation authorizing this
non-carceral drug court approach, the effect is to bypass political barriers to
more explicit decriminalization and to lend democratic legitimacy to drug
courts'  [*1643]  efforts.  n227

   Reentry courts may also operate on a decarceration model. Parole or probation
violators constitute approximately 50-65% of people admitted to state prison,
and about half of these individuals are re-incarcerated for technical
violations.  n228 Reentry courts may facilitate access to social services and
employment and rely on those referral sources for notification of extremely
concerning noncompliance but otherwise sharply limit reincarceration for
technical violations.  n229

   Although most domestic violence courts function on a judicial monitoring
model of limited effectiveness and with substantial associated
rights-eviscerating risks, domestic violence courts could shift to a
decarceration model for certain cases arising from relatively less serious and
less violent incidents. Alternative sentences could still be onerous and
require, among other conditions, considerable financial support of and physical
separation from the complainant. These provisions might better serve the
interests of the complainant spouse than incarceration for short periods of a
spouse who is the primary source of financial support for the family.  n230
Courts could also work to facilitate services for complainants--as do many
domestic violence courts currently--particularly because the availability of
alternative living arrangements, employment opportunities, or vocational or
educational training may empower survivors of domestic violence to leave or
transform abusive relationships and, hence, in the long-run reduce reoffending,
re-arrests, and reincarceration. Sex offense courts are generally conceptualized
primarily on a judicial monitoring model but could also shift to a decarceration
model by identifying those individuals whose convictions are such that carceral
sentencing seems unnecessary (for instance, individuals convicted on the basis
of public urination, certain other forms of indecent exposure, or consensual sex
with a person not significantly younger than the accused).  n231

    [*1644]  In all of these separate specialized criminal court contexts, a
decarceration model does not purport to be capable of solving the underlying
problems. Instead, a decarceration model frees up resources that might be
allocated to sectors better able to address relevant problems, even if the
problems ultimately remain in some measure intractable, at least without
further-reaching intervention. A decarceration model is minimalist in its
mission as compared to competing criminal law reformist models, at least with
regard to the degree of intervention taking place in the court itself. Empirical
monitoring may establish the basis for transferring this framework outside the
specialized courts context, facilitating farther-reaching transformative
criminal law reform. Gradually, in an incremental experimentalist fashion, a
decarceration model may begin to reform criminal law more broadly by working to
address the compound problem of the criminal law's relationship to social-order
maintenance and the social conditions associated with targeted conduct, moving
the regulation of certain matters outside criminal law administration to other
sectors.

   In summary, the upshot of the Article's analysis to this point is that if
specialized criminal courts aim to begin to reduce harshness and brutality in
criminal law administration and to limit reliance on criminal supervision and
incarceration while addressing socially disruptive conduct, they should organize
themselves predominantly on a diversionary, minimalist, experimental,
sociologically oriented decarceration model. The therapeutic, judicial
monitoring, and order maintenance models represent distinct criminal law
reformist strategies that threaten to exacerbate rather than unwind existing
problems in criminal law administration because they each possess inherent
features that tend to increase reliance on criminal supervision and that may
even expand incarceration--radically transforming the judicial role and diluting
procedural protections more significantly than on a decarceration model, without
generating other demonstrated desirable outcomes.

   The following Part will explore in more detail three criminal law reform
strategies that courts adopting a decarceration model may set in motion. Part IV
will address anticipated objections.

   III. POSSIBILITIES OF A DECARCERATION MODEL

   Much of the reformist promise of a decarceration model lies in the associated
courts' ability to begin to redirect criminal law administration more generally
through three primary strategies: (1) cognitive reframing; (2) institutional
reinvention; and (3) systemic change. The following subsections attend to each
of these three strategies in turn.

   A. COGNITIVE REFRAMING

   Specialized criminal courts adopting a decarceration model hold the potential
to reframe shared understandings of criminalized conduct, developing alternative
approaches to an array of matters currently managed in large part through
[*1645]  criminal supervision and incarceration. Reframing common conceptions of
crime and punishment is a critical component of any decarceration strategy
because to shift the management of social order from criminal law administration
to other institutions will require changed public understandings of when
incarceration is called for and what viable alternatives might entail.

   Before turning to the mechanisms by which courts adopting a decarceration
model may reframe the criminal law's response to various forms of criminally
charged conduct, a brief detour into the literature on framing is in order.
Framing is a process explored widely in psychological,  n232 political science,
n233 sociological,  n234 and legal scholarship,  n235 so I will only quickly
define the dimensions of framing relevant for present purposes.

   In short, a "frame" is a mental structure through which we understand the
world and which serves to organize perception.  n236 Frames are generated
through interactive social processes  n237 and they shape how people construct
meaning, identify problems, and determine to resolve those problems, often
operating unconsciously to inform individual and collective decision making.
n238 How a particular problem or choice is framed significantly influences the
way in which people proceed to address the situation.  n239 For example, a
public-health framing of the problem of drug use might suggest drug treatment as
a preferred solution; a moralistic framing of drug use as an unethical failure
of will might suggest a criminally punitive response. Likewise, a mental health
framing of veterans' or mentally ill persons' antisocial conduct might suggest a
coordinated reaction of clinical treatment and social service provision, whereas
a framing of such persons as dangerous and unmanageable criminals likely would
suggest a carceral response.

   Despite the powerful influence exerted by existing frames, reframing occurs
routinely, contributing to shifting social understandings. In effect, reframing
reorganizes intuitions and understanding, generating different frames, often by
introducing alternative ways of speaking about and approaching (and regulating)
the dimension of the world in question.  n240

    [*1646]  Social psychologist John M. Darley explains one way in which
intuitions may change as abstract reasoning overrides less reflective judgment.
n241 Cognitive psychologists refer to this as dual processing: "One process,
produced rapidly, takes place non-optionally . . . . The second set of processes
involves abstract reasoning areas of the brain, and is not always triggered into
action. . . . [W]hen this reasoning system is activated, it sometimes overrides
intuitions."  n242 Over time, cognitive frames may shift through the
contestation, embrace, and repetition of competing frames in different social
and cultural contexts.

   In the criminal law context, frames are routinely invoked in ways that shape
how people imagine particular forms of disfavored conduct ought to be managed.
n243 In a provocative article on what he called "Interpretive Construction in
the Substantive Criminal Law," Mark Kelman revealed how certain frames shape
whether the conduct of a criminally accused person is understood as morally
blameworthy, as an appropriate subject of criminal punishment, or as excusable.
n244 Though Kelman did not himself rely on the conceptual apparatus of cognitive
framing, his analysis offered an account of how framing occurs in the context of
criminal law administration through the selection of time frames (narrow or
broad) and intentionalist versus determinist interpretations of behavior, among
other interpretive schemes.  n245 Narrow versus broad time framing influences
perceptions of the degree of culpability of a defendant, enabling or undermining
the view of that defendant as morally responsible (on an intentionalist account)
or as significantly constrained and, hence, less responsible in some relevant
respect (a determinist interpretation).  n246

   A decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration offers an
alternative perspective on the necessity of incarceration; on structural,
neighbor-hood-level mechanisms that may inhibit crime; as well as on
time-framing, moral responsibility, and blaming practices in criminal law. And
it asserts these alternative frames in local, state, and national contexts. The
process by which  [*1647]  courts adopting a decarceration model reframe
understandings of particular categories of crime and offenders begins with a
dialogue between architects of specialized criminal courts, prosecutors, public
defenders, and defendants.  n247 Collectively, these actors forge a different
account of the causes and consequences of certain criminal offenses. For
example, veterans courts and mental health courts have made considerable headway
in advancing a regime of treatment rather than incarceration in response to
socially disruptive conduct on the part of veterans and mentally ill persons;
other specialized criminal courts have introduced with substantial success a
revised approach to drug offenses involving treatment and irrevocable or rarely
revocable probation. Over time, this understanding is embraced, at least to some
extent, by those who interact with the specialized criminal court itself and by
other relevant criminal law administrative actors: police, prosecutors, defense
counsel, and judges. These alternative frames are diffused through the court to
the various individuals that come into contact with the court. Eventually, the
reconfigured framework may be taken up by actors outside the specialized court.
The publication and dissemination of empirical analyses of court outcomes may
allow for broader circulation of a proposed framework for reform.

   Consider again the veterans courts program in Okemos, Michigan and the case
of Staff Sgt. Brad Eifert introduced in this Article's introduction. Eifert
served in Iraq and lives in Okemos, which is one of the approximately eighty
jurisdictions in the United States with a veterans court. After returning from
Iraq, Eifert struggled with depression, alcohol, and his own anger until he took
a gun and initiated a confrontation with the police of a kind sometimes referred
to as "suicide by cop."  n248 Although he faced charges carrying multiple
potential life sentences, he was ultimately permitted to participate in a
diversionary court program that may result in a dismissal of all charges.  n249

   The procedures whereby Eifert came to be admitted to the diversionary program
reflect the reframing processes potentially introduced through a specialized
criminal court adopting a decarceration approach. In the first instance, to
establish a veterans court, judges and other advocates introduce a different
framing of responsibility for the criminal conduct in question. In the veterans
court context, this entails reframing veterans' socially disruptive acts as, to
some extent, a shared responsibility occasioned by the fact that these
individuals have been sent by elected officials into harm's way, resulting in
their inability to function in a socially acceptable manner. The offending
behavior in question is also reframed as something other than a deliberately
criminal transgression, warranting blame and carceral punishment. Instead,
veterans' socially disruptive conduct is recharacterized as a manifestation, in
part, of what Buffalo, New York's Veterans Court Judge Robert T. Russell has
called the  [*1648]  "invisible wounds of war."  n250 Judge Russell said of his
Veterans Court in an interview with the New York Times: "I don't interpret it as
excusing behavior, but as addressing what the behavior is."  n251 In galvanizing
support to create veterans court programs, the courts' architects invoke
repeatedly this set of contending frames, differently characterizing the
defendants and offending conduct to be addressed by the court, both at the local
level and also on a state and national stage through media and other public
engagements.

   Then, when the court is operational, the process of moving particular
defendants into that court itself engages and reframes the way different key
actors in the local criminal process understand the problems at hand. For Eifert
to be admitted to the diversionary program, the judge, defense counsel,
prosecutors, and police all had to agree on the transfer. The judge had to
consider whether Eifert could be admitted given that his case involved the use
of a firearm and threat of injury to police officers. Defense counsel advocated
for Eifert's admission and ultimately convinced the judge. Initially, though,
the prosecutor's office "was not going to play at all," according to Eifert's
counsel. But eventually, as Eifert's lawyer introduced a differently framed
interpretation of the case--calling attention to the severity of Eifert's
post-traumatic stress disorder and his decision not to harm the officers when,
as a trained marksman, he could have done so--the prosecution adjusted its
position. Then, the assistant prosecutor had to engage the police officers who
had been in the woods that night when Eifert was firing shots. The case had been
debated in local news venues with some arguing that Eifert should receive a life
sentence and others urging a more lenient response. In the end, the officers
were persuaded to agree to Eifert's admission to the veterans court and in
public comment, one officer, who stated he feared for his life that night,
concluded: "I don't think any of us would not want him to get treatment . . . .
There's a difference between somebody who's a criminal and someone who's just in
a perfect storm of things going wrong."  n252

   The line between those two figures--the criminal and the person "in a perfect
storm of things going wrong"--may not in fact be clear at all in the vast
majority of criminal cases, but veterans courts reintroduce a determinist frame,
a collectivist frame, and a broader time frame for a range of conduct in ways
that shift public understandings of a significant group of defendants, veterans,
and a variety of criminalized conduct. Ongoing media attention to specialized
criminal courts carries the reframed understandings in particular jurisdictions,
such as in Okemos, Michigan where Eifert's case unfolded, to a broader national
audience.

   Judges operating in specialized criminal courts understand that they are
engaged in a strategic undertaking focused in large part on shifting public
perceptions about the appropriate scope of criminal law and punishment. As
[*1649]  Judge Ginger Lerner-Wren of the Broward County Mental Health Court
relayed in comments excerpted in this Article's introduction: "We view the
Mental Health Court as a 'strategy' to bring fairness to the administration of
justice for persons being arrested on minor offenses who suffer from major
mental disability."  n253 This strategy of reframing particular defendants and
criminalized behaviors as suited for alternative forms of social response apart
from the criminal law is a crucial part of the work of a veterans or mental
health court and of a decarceration approach more generally.

   It is important to note, however, that this strategy is not without important
limits: the success of reframing and of admission to the programs depends on the
zealous advocacy of defense counsel and on the openness of the judge and
prosecutor. While measures could (and perhaps should) be taken to limit
prosecutorial discretion in the referral process, the cooperation of prosecutors
contributes to the reframing work in which the court is engaged.

   In any case, despite its limits, through this strategy specialized criminal
courts have generated some significant reconceptualization of how to approach
particular categories of offenses and offenders. These changes generally begin
with judges and lawyers working within the courts. Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman
of the New York Court of Appeals, for instance, has suggested that: "When it
comes to non-violent crime, we have changed how judges and lawyers measure
success--no longer by the number of dispositions, convictions, or acquittals but
by whether we are able to break the cycle of addiction and crime and improve
public safety."  n254 Judge Clinton Deveaux reports that, although his judicial
colleagues used to deride his specialized criminal court work as that of a
"social worker on the bench," in due course other judges started to refer cases
to his court and reported adopting some similar approaches in their own
conventional courts, acknowledging that "this is the only way to deal with this
stuff if you're going to actually stop the recidivism and actually solve some of
the problems that are bringing these people to the court."  n255 Transfer of
reframed conceptions also is likely to occur through the transfer of judges from
the specialized criminal court back to the conventional court. When judges move
between a specialized criminal court and a conventional court, many report that
they continue to apply in part the approach developed in the alternative court
context to the extent allowable.  n256

    [*1650]  Beyond the level of reshaping the perspectives of individual court
personnel, judges and other institutional actors frequently adapt the courtroom
to function as public theatre and publicize through the media the aspirations of
their respective courts. As a consequence, large numbers of cases are not
necessarily required for the courts to shift understandings on a broader scale.
n257 This addresses one challenge for specialized criminal courts: namely, that
they cannot reasonably be brought to scale. Active engagement of judges,
lawyers, and social scientists involved with diversionary courts in reframing
certain of the criminal law problems at stake in the courts allows the courts
broader reach than that provided by the relatively limited number of cases they
are able to process at any given time.

   Additionally, through empirical monitoring of the courts, a decarceration
model helps determine whether incarceration is necessary or advisable for
certain kinds of crimes and defendants, balancing important concerns about
public safety and criminal law reform goals. Many administrators of specialized
criminal courts, often alongside external empirical monitoring entities, closely
track the outcomes regarding recidivism and other variables for participants in
non-carceral programming relative to similarly situated persons subject to
conventional criminal supervision and/or incarceration. If a decarceration
approach is able to demonstrate that reliance on incarceration can be diminished
without imperiling public safety, this approach may reframe public attitudes
regarding incarceration more broadly--providing the basis for a large-scale
reasoned rethinking of prison- and jail-based social order maintenance.  n258

   The process of disseminating empirical analyses is well underway with drug
courts. In a quasi-experimental study released in June 2011, a team of social
scientists working with the Urban Institute and funded by the U.S. Department of
Justice examined the outcomes regarding criminal recidivism and drug relapse for
participants in twenty-three drug courts and six comparison sites.  n259 Using a
combination of statistical techniques to correct for potential selection bias,
attrition bias, and clustering of outcomes within sites, the study's authors
found that drug courts significantly reduce criminal recidivism and drug use
after eighteen months as compared to the outcomes for similar individuals in the
comparison sites.  n260 In July 2011, the Senate Judiciary Committee convened
hearings regarding this and related studies to explore expanded funding for
specialized criminal courts relying on alternatives to incarceration, with
specific  [*1651]  emphasis on drug courts and veterans courts.  n261 In time,
empirical analyses of this sort may facilitate alternative framings that would
enable legislative reforms markedly scaling back sentence lengths across the
board.

   Though specialized criminal courts have generally started with jurisdiction
only over a very limited class of offenders or offenses, typically the courts'
authority expands and an increasing range of cases come before the courts. For
example, drug courts began by accepting drug possession cases but over time have
expanded to include individuals arrested for forgery, burglary, and other crimes
believed to be associated with drug addiction.  n262 This occurs in part due to
the cognitive reframing that the courts enable: drug crime is characterized to
include not only narcotics possession and sales offenses but also conduct
motivated by drug addiction.

   Once diversionary specialized criminal courts have become an established
alternative means of addressing drug offenses and the socially disruptive
conduct of veterans or the mentally ill, broader shifts in social understanding
may be set in motion. The diversionary alternatives introduce a new
institutional framework for managing the problems in question. The existence of
these programs normalizes the alternative responses. And the availability of a
parallel diversionary alternative for a significant class of cases makes
available a set of reasons why diversion may be preferable in other contexts--a
potentially transposable "reasoned override" to the automatic invocation of
conventional criminal law frameworks.  n263 The contagion of the diversionary
approach is confirmed by the experience of the past decade during which time
diversionary courts have rapidly multiplied in numerous areas and expanded to
cover more serious offenses.

   The alternative framings of crime and punishment emerging through the work of
specialized criminal courts, particularly those adopting a diversionary
decarceration approach, hold the promise to shift considerably and broadly
public conceptions of various problems currently managed through criminal
prosecution and incarceration.

   B. INSTITUTIONAL REINVENTION

   Along with reframing social understandings of crime and punishment, a
decarceration model may also reshape criminal law administrative institutions by
introducing additional tasks for judges, defense counsel, and prosecutors.
Further, a decarceration model incorporates novel players into specialized
criminal courts' work, in part by facilitating partnerships with local
organizations and social service providers.  n264

    [*1652]  The roles of the judge and the parties on a decarceration model are
all in flux, but, unlike on the therapeutic jurisprudence or judicial monitoring
models, these role shifts are relatively consistent with preservation of
conventional values respectively associated with these roles. The primary work
of the judge on a decarceration model is to convene the parties and service
providers; to oversee the negotiation of a diversion plan; to monitor
performance of diversion programs; and then to be available to adjudicate
motions for sanctions should major noncompliance become an issue. The judge on a
decarceration model plays a far less active role than on a therapeutic, judicial
monitoring, or order maintenance model, requiring only one or two days of work
per week in the specialized court. The courts' institutional design facilitates
conscientiousness about procedural protections, particularly in sanctions
proceedings, and it aims to make transparent the reasons behind court orders.
n265 On a decarceration model, the judge also often serves as a spokesperson for
a decarceration strategy and for experimental, empirically informed criminal law
administration.  n266

   Defense counsel's role shifts too, such that his or her most critical
function involves negotiating the terms on which a defendant opts into the
diversionary court. Because specialized criminal courts are configured
differently with regard to the consequences of failure in terms of sentence
penalties, informed counsel at this stage is extremely important. Defense
counsel continues to play a role in safeguarding a defendant's procedural rights
and other interests throughout the process, especially when motions for
sanctions arise. Defense counsel may play a critical part as well in ensuring
that the court actually reduces carceral sentencing, as opposed to on a
therapeutic approach where defense counsel may acquiesce in a carceral sentence
for its presumed therapeutic effect, or in conventional courts where much
defense work involves brokering plea deals and rarely actively contesting
evidence, let alone conducting trials.  n267

   The role shift on a decarceration model is perhaps most dramatic for
prosecutors. Embracing a decarceration approach for prosecutors entails that
their offices operate not simply by seeking the toughest charges and sentences
for criminal defendants, but that they work also on strengthening public safety
and advancing justice in a broader context.  n268 Prosecutors on a decarceration
model  [*1653]  focus their conventional prosecutorial resources on more serious
violent or property crimes where conventional criminal proceedings are most
warranted and refer to specialized courts or drop charges in those matters where
non-carceral sentencing is possible. Prosecutors committed to decarceration also
devote their resources in part to enabling alternatives to incarceration. Taking
up in some significant manner a decarceration agenda, the Brooklyn District
Attorney's Office, for example, has pioneered several
alternatives-to-incarceration programs. These initiatives emerged before the
proliferation of specialized criminal courts, suggesting that a decarceration
approach may have broader potential to restructure a prosecutorial agenda beyond
specialized courts.  n269 In 1990, Brooklyn's D.A. Charles "Joe" Hynes
introduced a diversion program that allowed nonviolent drug offenders to enter
substance abuse treatment instead of receiving a conventional criminal sentence.
By the late 1990s, the D.A.'s Office was organizing community group gatherings
across Brooklyn to link individuals on parole or probation to jobs, housing, and
treatment programs.  n270 This work does not require prosecutors to cease
prosecuting cases of serious crime, but it suggests that prosecutors can play an
important part in decarceration strategies by augmenting the prosecutorial
function and organizational mission.

   Beyond reshaping the roles of existing players in criminal courts, a
decarceration model introduces additional players. One notable new player is the
resources coordinator--a position increasingly institutionalized in criminal law
administrative systems more broadly.  n271 Resource coordinators work to link
defendants to services, treatment, and housing, and they work to address other
related cross-sector collaborative efforts of the courts.

   Finally, specialized criminal courts operating on a decarceration model may
work to shift the institutional form and function of the courts themselves. As
it has begun to adopt to a greater extent a decarceration mission, the reentry
court in Harlem, for example, has appropriated the form of the parole revocation
court but has become less court-like, functioning simultaneously as a
clearinghouse for job placement, mental health care, and legal advice, aiming to
change local opportunities for ex-offenders and to facilitate more general
economic development programs in East Harlem.  n272 Over time, as these courts
become resource clearinghouses rather than primarily sites for processing guilty
pleas or  [*1654]  parole revocations, this may work to transform diversionary
courts from criminal courts into different institutions altogether, focusing
conventional criminal law resources on the most serious forms of violent and
property crime and lending support to a range of different local social and
economic development initiatives.

   C. SYSTEMIC CHANGE

   Through both reframed understandings and institutional reinvention, a
decarceration model may enable broader systemic change: altering conceptual
approaches to prevalent social problems, freeing financial resources for other
initiatives, increasing the level of accountability of service providers in
diversionary collaborations, politicizing court actors regarding the limits of
available alternative programming, and transforming the manner in which criminal
law is administered more generally. First, by marshaling support for particular
types of social service interventions, a decarceration model directs attention
and financial resources to public health, mental health, housing, and other
services that might not otherwise be available.  n273 Particularly during times
of fiscal austerity, as resources are cut for mental health and other public
health programs, a decarceration approach may free resources that could be
allocated to treatment initiatives.  n274 As prisons close, additional resources
may be freed for other initiatives.  n275 In this regard, specialized criminal
courts function as a potential vehicle for "justice reinvestment;" as the former
Executive Director of the National Association of Drug Court Professionals,
Karen Freeman-Wilson, explained, "the ultimate idea is to shift the resources
from the departments of correction and other places where that money could be
put to better use."  n276

   These courts may also bring about systemic change by influencing how the
problems confronting criminal courts--for instance, mental illness--are managed
in other parallel institutions, such as in cities' public health and publicly
subsidized housing systems. Monitoring the provision of services in diversionary
programs provides an additional layer of accountability for those sectors.  n277
Through this monitoring, the courts aim to encourage improved performance in
related fields as court administrators advocate, for example, to make sure
"there are enough treatment beds, treatment slots . . . in order to make these
courts  [*1655]  functional."  n278

   As specialized criminal court judges and advocates run up against the limits
of social service providers to accommodate the need for the relevant services,
the effect in many instances may be a politicization of judges and other court
advocates regarding the structural problems afflicting the demographic served by
the court. Part of the reformist potential of a decarceration model, then, is
that it may lead court participants to galvanize broader support for
reallocation of resources to better address these problems. Some mental health
court personnel have begun this process by locating resources for housing
subsidies and by serving as advocates for court participants with potential
landlords.  n279

   It is important to acknowledge, though, that in some, perhaps even in many,
circumstances, a decarceration model may run up against a sense of tragic
futility--and the court and related diversionary programs may be unable to
address adequately the matters at hand, even with more extensive resources for
treatment and other social service alternatives.  n280 After all, simply
improving the employment and life prospects of particular individuals and
shifting resources to institutions that may support those individuals to become
more socially integrated, is unlikely to do a great deal to shift the structures
of opportunity in blighted urban and rural neighborhoods when, fundamentally,
the problems the courts aim to address are deep-seated, systemic problems.  n281
Yet, under such circumstances, the limitations of specialized criminal courts
may facilitate larger-scale legislative reform that support effective
decriminalization of certain offenses, reduced incarceration regarding others,
and reinvestment in under-resourced areas. For instance, the limited capacity of
drug courts in California to address treatment and other needs in that state
helped to facilitate legislative reform along these lines. In 2000, when
California voters passed Proposition 36, the Substance Abuse and Crime
Prevention Act--permitting drug arrestees to receive probation with drug
treatment instead of incarceration--the public was responding in part to
criticism of drug courts that they served too  [*1656]  few drug offenders and
involved too much judicial oversight.  n282 While California's drug courts
provided treatment to approximately 3,000 individuals annually before 2001,
under Proposition 36 approximately 36,000 drug offenders each year were
receiving probation with drug treatment by 2004.  n283 Further, supervision is
delegated from the judge to probation officers and revocation of probation is
only considered under limited specified conditions; "flash incarceration"
(short-term incarceration for technical violations) is not permitted.  n284

   The Utah Drug Offender Reform Act provides another intriguing window on to
the systemic shifts set in motion by the relatively limited capacity of
specialized criminal courts. According to Dan Becker, Utah's State Court
Administrator:


     The focus that drug courts have put on treatment gave rise to a lot of
     interest on the part of the larger criminal justice community in Utah.
     . . . All of the criminal justice agencies got together and worked for
     several years on crafting legislation that's called the Drug Offender
     Reform Act, which provides for screening and assessment for every
     single person charged with a felony where there's a drug offense
     involved. . . . The legislature last year stepped forward and funded
     about half of the cost of implementation; they'll fund the other half
     next year hopefully. . . . And that's a complete shift in public
     policy. . . . I suspect you could trace that back to the roots of drug
     courts putting the emphasis on treatment.  n285

   As court personnel struggle against structural barriers, such as a lack of
adequate public health and mental health services, lack of affordable housing,
and geographically concentrated underemployment, the result may be some measure
of consciousness-raising and potentially responsive legislative change but also
an acute sense of the impossible situation in which many subjects of the
criminal law find themselves. Part of the reformist potential of a decarceration
model is that this experience will lead court participants to work to address
more comprehensively the structural problems at issue and to disseminate more
widely the truth that criminal courts cannot serve as a cure-all for social
[*1657]  insecurity, social risk, and the underlying social problems the courts
routinely confront. Moreover, specialized criminal courts operating on a
decarceration model begin to expose the complexity of the problems at hand and
the unavailability of a complete resolution of that complexity. They can help
all of us to see that the problems that have found their way to criminal courts
are often ones for which there is no ideal solution, even though there are
better, more humane responses or worse, more brutal carceral means of
imperfectly addressing these problems.

   In these various respects--through reframing understandings of criminally
charged conduct, shifting the roles of key systemic players and institutions,
and catalyzing resource reallocation and legislative change--a decarceration
model may begin to bring about substantial transformative shifts in how criminal
law is administered.

   IV. PERILS OF SPECIALIZED CRIMINAL LAW REFORM

   It remains to consider the perils presented by a specialized criminal courts
reform agenda generally--as distinct from the potential risks addressed above
with regard to the more predominant criminal law reformist models at work in
specialized criminal courts. Specialized criminal courts generally pose a number
of significant and concerning risks: excessive reliance on legal frameworks to
address complex social concerns; dilution of the expressive retributive or
deterrent force of criminal law; broadly diminished procedural protections;
inefficiently proliferating specializations; and legitimation of harshness in
conventional courts for less sympathetic, racial minority, or otherwise
stigmatized defendants. This Part will begin to address these risks and the
ability of courts adopting a decarceration model to respond to them.

   A. EXCESSIVE LEGALISM?

   Critics of specialized criminal courts reject the overarching premise that
criminal courts can be relied upon to address complex social problems. Professor
Jane M. Spinak has argued that court-based approaches will be incapable of
managing either the structural problems the specialized criminal courts aim to
address, such as crippling caseloads in conventional criminal courts, or the
difficult social issues the courts seek to handle, such as addiction and social
dislocation.  n286 Specialized criminal courts will be unable to manage the
courts' structural problems, Spinak contends, because those problems are
produced by legislatures and public policies over which the courts exercise
little control. Simply put, so long as police persist in arresting and
prosecutors persist in  [*1658]  prosecuting drug offenders, the volume of drug
offenders in the criminal courts will remain high. Moreover, Spinak maintains,
the societal and personal problems the courts seek to address are multifaceted
and socially entrenched and will be difficult, if not impossible, for courts to
mitigate, absent broader structural shifts. To substantiate these arguments,
Spinak explores the history of the early family courts, which, like contemporary
specialized criminal courts, had problem-oriented ambitions and fell short in
resolving the relevant problems, largely because of the complicated socially
ingrained character of family dysfunction.  n287 Spinak concludes that we "need
to develop resources beyond the court" and focus on "more client-oriented
solutions" rather than therapeutic or court interventions.  n288 In Spinak's
view, though, any conceptual reorientation within the courts toward building
resources beyond the court and developing client-oriented solutions "is not
enough to stem the tide of judicial activism that situates problem solving in
the court itself rather than in the broader structure of how people in need are
served by our society."  n289

   Professor Mae C. Quinn has advanced a related argument against the legalist
orientation of a criminal law reform strategy located in specialized criminal
courts. Quinn's analysis draws on the failure of another earlier Progressive Era
attempt to address a range of social problems through procedurally informal
specialized courts. Quinn provides a fascinating history of how one Progressive
Era female judge, the Honorable Anna Kross, convened specialized courts to
address the problems of domestic violence and juvenile delinquency. But
ultimately, Judge Kross's experiments were disbanded and derided as failures
because they were so expensive that they could never be brought to scale.
Additionally, the "treatment methods" coordinated by the court were unable to
address the broader social issues at hand, and the outsourcing of treatment
tasks resulted in "overreaching and privatization of the judicial system."  n290
The Progressive Era endeavor to address social problems through specialized
courts was dismantled, legal protections for accused persons were expanded, and
observers concluded that, while social work intervention might be helpful to
persons in distress, this would be best achieved outside the context of criminal
law administration. The troubled juvenile courts are the one continuing
institutional component of this Progressive Era legacy. Quinn draws from this
historical experience to suggest that contemporary criminal court reformers
should be much more skeptical than they are about the claimed newness of their
interventions and the capacity of court-coordinated "treatment" to resolve the
targeted  [*1659]  legal systemic or social problems.  n291

   Spinak and Quinn's respective critiques apply with particular force to
therapeutic, judicial monitoring, and order maintenance models of specialized
criminal law administration. A decarceration model, however, is primarily
invested in shifting problems and resources to other extralegal sectors, making
it less susceptible to the charge of nai[#xFE]ve legalism. And on a
decarceration model, the diversionary programs are open to all persons, not just
those referred through the court, so it is not principally the courts themselves
that are determining the scope of the populations served or the precise content
of the service providers' interventions. To the extent courts remain involved,
they aim to ensure some measure of accountability for the service providers.

   In response to the concern raised by Spinak--that the structural problems at
issue emanate from police practices, legislatures, prosecutorial prerogatives,
and the desolation of poor urban and rural neighborhoods and so cannot be
resolved by court innovation--a decarceration model directs attention to
reframing understandings of crime and punishment in ways that promise to shift
police practices and prosecutorial prerogatives, as explored earlier in Part
III. A decarceration model does not purport to use the court directly to resolve
the broader problems but, in reframing and publicizing a conception of drug
dependency, mental illness, and other matters as structural and social
challenges, a decarceration model: (a) makes available other ways of conceiving
and managing these concerns and (b) actively enlists police and prosecutors in
the courts' work, thereby influencing those agencies' perspectives and conduct.
Empirical documentation of the courts' progress may ultimately provide the basis
for legislative change, as described earlier in Part III. A decarceration model,
thus, promises to effect change in policing, prosecution, and to do so through
legislation rather than assuming that a legalist court-based strategy on its own
will effect desired change. Finally, in galvanizing resources for blighted
social service sectors and neighborhoods, a decarceration model may begin to
address (invariably only partially) some of the broader structural deficits to
which therapeutic, judicial monitoring, or order maintenance models are less
attuned due to the almost exclusive focus of these approaches on the presumed
pathologies of individuals.

   A decarceration model also begins to account for Quinn's objections regarding
the implausibility, due to cost, of bringing specialized criminal courts to
scale as well as the threat of judicial overreaching. On a decarceration model,
the courts are part of an interim decarceration strategy carried out by
reframing particular conceptions of crime, punishment, and its alternatives; by
partially reshaping the institutional roles of judges, defense counsel,
prosecutors, and criminal courts; and by shifting resources. A decarceration
model need not be brought to scale to stimulate some significant measure of
cognitive reframing,  [*1660]  institutional reinvention, and systemic change,
as certain specialized criminal courts have already begun to do.

   The problem of judicial overreaching to which Quinn attends, and which is in
part a product of excessive faith in legal fora to facilitate change, is
mitigated on a decarceration model due to the minimalist, diversionary approach
characteristic of the model. The central aspiration of courts adopting a
decarceration model is to divert cases to other social sectors, which fulfill
some less formal surveillant function and provide social services without
enlisting judges in that work. Although, as with any court-based reform
strategy, a decarceration model runs some risk of excessive legalism, the
experimental, empirically, and sociologically oriented diversionary approach of
a decarceration model mitigates this risk considerably.

   One might wonder, then, why involve the courts at all if a decarceration
model is primarily diversionary? The answer lies in the fact that the matters at
issue are currently lodged in criminal courts, and political process defects
have left the task of addressing these matters largely to judges in criminal
courts themselves. Judges devised specialized criminal courts as a creative
work-around of these political process defects. At this point, the courts hold
considerable advantages as sites for reshaping public understandings of crime
and punishment, for shifting institutional roles, and for reallocating resources
to other sectors. Further, as Professor Michael Dorf has argued, specialized
criminal courts have "convening power," as well as "disentrenching capacity" to
"impose a 'penalty default' . . . so unpalatable to all parties that they have
no choice but to hammer out some solution."  n292 Also, courts are perceived as
relatively neutral and morally authoritative institutions, lending greater force
to the experimental and empirical work ongoing there. Finally, courts may
provide some mechanism through which to render service providers accountable in
the transition to a diversionary regime. Along these lines, then, a
decarceration model may navigate some of the excessive legalism potentially
associated with specialized criminal courts and underscored by Spinak and Quinn,
while taking advantage of the institutional authority of the courts to initiate
broader transformative criminal law reform.

   B. CRIMINAL JUSTICE?

   A separate question regarding specialized criminal courts is whether they
undermine the expressive force of criminal justice. Conveying blame and/or
deterring wrongdoing are arguably the most important features of the criminal
law.  n293 Plus, tying moral blame to criminal sanctions may play a critical
role in  [*1661]  realizing the criminal law's deterrent potential.  n294
Furthermore, Richard C. Boldt has argued that criminal law "does more than
simply express an intentionalist perspective"--a perspective that affirms human
agency and moral responsibility--but additionally, "it is a vital societal
mechanism by which that perspective is created and maintained, and the causal or
objective perspective obscured."  n295 For this reason, Boldt contends it is a
mistake to medicalize addiction and thereby excuse it; instead,
decriminalization is preferable to excusing categories of conduct which are
ill-suited for criminal prosecution, in part because appropriate excusing
factors would undermine the fundamentally intentionalist perspective of the
criminal law.  n296 From this vantage point, specialized criminal courts might
be understood to weaken the moral condemnatory dimension of criminal justice
and, hence, to undercut its deterrent force (insofar as moral prohibition is
necessary to make deterrence effective).

   In beginning to address these concerns, at first blush it may appear that
retributivism is a theory of punishment irreconcilably at odds with the express
mission of decarceration. The crux of a retributive approach is to punish
offenders proportionally to their moral blameworthiness, based on the crime
committed. Leniency and harshness both violate the principle of proportionality.

   Yet, upon closer examination, there may be a retributive defense of a
decarceration model after all. A retributive account of a decarceration model
would proceed on the following premises. First, if retributivist criminal law
administration is to impart moral blame and assign proportionate punishment, it
ought to focus on those forms of misconduct for which blame is apt--not on
conduct for which victims are absent or where moral agency is seriously in
question. Courts adopting a decarceration approach focus in large part, though
not entirely, on what Professor Sanford Kadish has characterized as "morally
neutral" criminal offenses or on offenders whose moral blameworthiness is
otherwise mitigated.  n297 For these categories of offense and offender, the
retributive concern with imparting moral blame through criminal law holds less
sway.

   Still, in cases involving both morally neutral as well as more morally
charged offenses, courts adopting a decarceration approach limit defendants'
liberty in significant ways, which are surely experienced by defendants as
constraining, sanctioning, and, in those respects, punitive. For example, a drug
addict mandated by the court to undergo treatment or a person with mental
illness  [*1662]  mandated to comply with a mental health regimen, both have
their liberty undermined. In the throes of addiction or a psychotic manic
episode, most persons would prefer to use drugs or experience their mania.
Specialized criminal courts punish those persons by limiting their liberty and
mandating by force of law a socially preferred course of action. In other words,
social service intervention and punishment are not necessarily diametrically
opposed. Such intervention may be experienced as punitive. And in fact, such
intervention "can actually provide the ideological basis whereby the state
exercises greater control over the individual than is typical of a normal
criminal court."  n298 In this regard, from a retributive standpoint,
specialized criminal courts may enable more meaningful punitiveness than
conventional criminal courts. According to former Kansas City drug court
prosecutor Claire McCaskill, the diversionary programs required of participants
in her jurisdiction are "tougher than the alternatives."  n299

   In contrast, conventional jail, prison, and probationary sentencing often
fail on a retributive theory, either because of disproportionate harshness when
an inmate will be physically harmed and subject to brutal conditions, or when
prison, jail, and probation function as part of the anticipated life course--not
as especially stigmatizing punishment--for certain demographics of criminally
convicted persons.  n300 In this regard, diversionary sentencing may provide
more meaningful, proportionate, and significantly liberty-constraining
punishment from a retributive standpoint than conventional sentencing.  n301
Additionally, because a decarceration model maintains no commitment to a purely
therapeutic neo-rehabilitative or purely deterrent judicial monitoring approach,
there is nothing to prevent specialized criminal court teams from incorporating
proportional sentencing constraints in devising diversionary sentences.

   A decarceration model need not fundamentally undermine an agency-focused
intentionalist perspective of the sort, Boldt addresses, but merely reorganizes
society's response to particular defendants and offenses, preferring mandatory
social institutional integration to jail or prison sentencing. Criminal
prohibitions remain intact until they are legislatively altered, so the
expressive moral condemnation function of criminal law remains, in that regard,
unchanged. The sentence assigned in response merely shifts from prison, jail,
and conventional criminal supervision to other sectors.

   This shift occurs on a decarceration model in part in the interests of a
larger concern for justice--for maintaining the legitimacy of a legal order that
is deeply compromised by overcriminalization and overincarceration. Even on a
Kantian retributive theory, it may be that some measure of lenience is warranted
[*1663]  to "preserve the legal order on which justice depends."  n302 Though
much more could surely be said, for now that concludes the retributive defense
of a decarceration model.

   From the perspective of deterrence, a decarceration approach dissuades for
the same reasons that it may be experienced as punishment from a retributive
standpoint: diversionary sentences still substantially constrain defendants'
liberty. A potential offender aware that apprehension may lead to a
court-ordered diversion program, will be inclined to desist from being
apprehended for conduct that will lead to a diversionary sentence, something
that individual would prefer to avoid. Critically, on a decarceration model,
referral services are open to all comers, not just those referred through
diversionary courts, so there is no incentive to offend in order to obtain
services should those services be desired. Further, for most eligible
defendants--mentally ill persons, drug addicts, veterans suffering severe
post-traumatic stress--their socially disruptive conduct is unlikely to be
carried out following reflective cost-benefit analysis, so the deterrent
potential of any criminal law administrative arrangement is questionable.  n303
It must, of course, be acknowledged that a diversionary sentence will not deter
those individuals who wish both to commit an offense subject to the jurisdiction
of a specialized criminal court and who wish to enter diversionary programming.
But as noted above in reference to retributive concerns, this same problem
arises with respect to conventional jail, prison, and probationary sentencing:
for many criminal defendants, criminal law involvement has become an anticipated
part of the life course, a life stage through which certain demographics of
defendants expect to pass, and, in this regard, a diversionary approach may not
be appreciably less stigmatizing (and less deterrent) than conventional
sentencing.

   One reason a decarceration model is preferable to a more jurisprudentially
specified model of specialized criminal law administration, such as therapeutic
jurisprudence, is because this jurisprudentially underspecified form permits the
courts to engage multiple complex meaning imparting functions involved in
criminal law administration. In certain criminal cases, the ideal role of the
court may be simultaneously to condemn a given offense and the possibly
reprehensible motivations behind it, to reaffirm the worth of the victim, to aim
to craft a sanction that will deter the offender and others from such conduct in
the future, but also to act mercifully. This is a complex undertaking, to be
sure, and one that cannot be easily captured under a single criminal law
jurisprudential theory, whether a therapeutic jurisprudential approach or an
instrumentally deterrent  [*1664]  model. As Dan M. Kahan and Martha C. Nussbaum
have proposed: "A disposition that purports to answer only a single, abstract
question--did the defendant's background 'cause' his crime? or even does the
defendant 'deserve' to be punished?--will never be rich enough to convey all of
these meanings."  n304 In this respect, courts adopting a decarceration approach
have overdetermined meanings, rendering them potentially consistent with a range
of differing ideological and legal precommitments. Retributivists may favor
diversionary courts because they enable a tough and intrusive form of criminal
law administration that is proportional to wrongdoing and lenient where in the
interests of justice, having the potential to both deter and prevent future
offending, and others may be drawn to diversionary courts for their
rehabilitative and humanitarian potential. Regardless of one's criminal law
theoretical commitments, a decarceration model promises to reduce criminal law
administrative costs, increase efficacy, and reduce reliance on incarceration.

   For the time being, a decarceration approach is best suited to misconduct for
which there is some considerable collective interest--among legal actors and the
public--in experimental alternative social response. But perhaps over time a
growing class of offenses and offenders will come to seem suitable candidates
for decarceration. There are surely some crimes of violence that will not be
amenable to decarceration processing at all, though it is not entirely clear
what those offenses are in the abstract. The conduct of the person who murders,
who rapes, who robs by violent means may not be subject to redirection through
court or other intervention, and the only politically and socially viable
response may be moral condemnation and incapacitation. As sociologist Jack Katz
explains in his studies in Seductions of Crime, certain violent acts may "emerge
from a dizziness in which conformity is the greatest spiritual challenge and
deviance promises the peace of transcendent significance."  n305 But for others
who have killed, their deviant conduct may never again be repeated--it may have
occurred in a drug-induced haze that, following recovery, would no longer
threaten others and for which moral culpability is lacking. The experimental,
unfinished character of a decarceration model allows this question be resolved
incrementally over time.  n306

    [*1665]  C. REDUCED PROCEDURAL PROTECTIONS?

   Specialized criminal courts frequently adopt a collaborative approach that
entails, at certain stages, reduced adversarialism and reduced procedural
protections--an approach that critics charge raises numerous due process
concerns.  n307 Criminal defense attorneys object to these relaxed procedures on
the grounds that reduced procedural protections lead to outcomes that are bad
for their clients and that more generally are corrosive of the legitimacy and
integrity of criminal law.  n308 This line of objection continues that, when
defense counsel works as part of a diversionary sentencing "team," they may be
less than vigilant in seeking to have illegally obtained evidence excluded and
less willing to challenge the legal or factual bases of the government's
charges.  n309 Defendants' interactions with social service providers outside
the presence of counsel also may entail due process violations as any
incriminating statements may affect the defendant's revocation sentence.  n310
In certain drug courts, for instance, judges may rely on progress reports from
substance abuse programmers in determining whether to apply sanctions to court
participants; domestic violence courts similarly rely on reports from anger
management programs to assess compliance.  n311 This information is obtained in
a "treatment" context and is not subject to any measures that would ensure
procedural fairness or regularity.  n312

    [*1666]  Unlike on a therapeutic jurisprudence, judicial monitoring, or
order maintenance model, on a decarceration approach there is considerable room
to incorporate robust procedural protections, thereby responding to most
procedural objections leveled generally against specialized criminal courts,
even if there remain inevitably some procedural rights trade-offs. Because the
legal process itself is not understood to have a therapeutic or other
nonconventional orientation on a decarceration model, full due process
protections should and have been applied at the stage of revocation.  n313 To
accommodate concerns regarding judicial neutrality, courts adopting a
decarceration model could readily assign two separate judges, one to handle
supervision and a separate judge to handle revocation.  n314 The due process
problems posed by labeling defendants in judicial monitoring courts "sex
offenders" prior to adjudication are so obvious as to require little
explanation--on a decarceration, model preadjudication judicial monitoring need
not occur. An additional substantial ground for procedural objections is the
often substantial disparity in specialized criminal courts between the
relatively light sentence a defendant would have received in the conventional
court and the disproportionately harsh jail or prison sentence a defendant will
receive if he or she fails in the diversionary program. Because a decarceration
model's primary aim is to reduce reliance on incarceration consistent with
maintaining public safety, such courts do not seek to obtain leverage by
imposing disproportionately harsh revocation sentences; in fact, empirical
analyses suggest that the severity of sanctions in drug courts does not appear
to reduce the subsequent number of crimes committed or days of drug use.  n315

   Beyond these more obvious modifications on a decarceration model to account
for procedural justice concerns, diversionary courts may operate in accord with
any of several different procedural configurations. Courts may be
pretrial/pre-plea, post-plea/presentencing, or post-conviction sentencing
alternatives. For example, some drug court programs provide for placement in a
drug court following adjudication but, if the terms of the program are violated,
probation is revoked and the court will sentence the defendant anew or based on
a predetermined revocation sentence.  n316 In contrast, in other specialized
criminal courts, failure to comply merely leads to the reinstatement of criminal
proceedings, not  [*1667]  to a previously bargained conviction or sentence.
n317

   The decision to take a plea is a serious one and making an informed and
rational choice about pleading guilty is particularly difficult when the
alternative is a possibly much lengthier prison sentence and when the defendant
is drug-addicted or suffering from mental illness.  n318 One way to attempt to
circumvent the procedural concerns that arise under such circumstances is to
have the diversionary alternative process occur prior to a plea being entered.
On this approach, a defendant would elect whether to opt in to the specialized
criminal court and upon successful completion of the diversionary program any
charges would be dropped. Egregious misconduct while in the program would result
in referral to the conventional criminal process for the prior criminal conduct,
but evidence from the diversionary period obtained through treatment or other
social service intervention could be excluded. The defendant would then choose
whether to plead guilty at the outset, pursue any motions practice, or proceed
to trial.

   The due process concerns on this approach relate principally to the fact that
the diversionary alternative, to the extent it is intrusive and limiting of the
defendant's liberty, is mandated prior to a finding of guilt. But the
defendant's participation is optional, no more constrained than any choice made
in light of the background criminal law regime, and the specialized court
participant may at any point opt out and return to the conventional process.
n319

   Still, the choice of the participant does not eliminate concerns about
coercion because any choice takes place against the coercive pressures of the
criminal law regime and the broader social and political setting in which the
defendant finds himself or herself. And if specialized criminal courts increase
pressures to arrest or for arrestees to enter diversion programs, they will have
constrained individuals' options in a significant sense rather than having
expanded them. But the coercion at work in determining whether to enter the
specialized criminal court is no more than the coercion in play at any other
critical phase of proceedings in which a defendant decides to plead guilty or go
to trial, and the potential benefits to the participant are considerable.

   The other available approach is to employ the diversionary court as a
post-conviction sentencing alternative, with egregious offending while in the
program punished by an alternative pre-agreed upon sentence. This avoids the
[*1668]  due process problems associated with court mandates prior to a finding
of guilt but increases the risk of coercive, less-than-voluntary pleas.

   As far as the post-conviction configuration is concerned, due process and
coercion concerns may be mitigated if there is not too harsh a pre-agreed upon
or subsequently determined revocation sentence--that is, if the revocation
sentence is standardized to what the defendant would have received had he or she
not opted into the specialized court. The procedural concerns could be further
mitigated on a post-conviction model if both those convicted following trial and
those who pled guilty were eligible for alternative sentencing. This latter,
post-conviction approach would attend to the procedural rights of defendants and
would likely reduce incarceration and associated costs. Expanding the ability of
defendants to remain out of prison protects their interests in avoiding carceral
sentencing and their due process rights so long as defendants are still able to
challenge any illegally obtained evidence at the outset of the case, elect to go
to trial, and not be subject to a disproportionately harsh sentence upon
revocation.  n320

   In sum, the trade-off is between a pretrial, pre-plea model that potentially
avoids criminal proceedings altogether and more closely renders participation a
choice, and a post-conviction model that avoids certain due process problems by
making the specialized criminal court program effectively a part of the
defendant's sentence. But unless the post-conviction approach allows defendants
to enter following trial, it applies substantial pressure to plead guilty to
retain the option to avoid jail or prison, even under circumstances where the
defendant may contest guilt. The advantage of the experimental quality of a
decarceration model is that jurisdictions may test the various procedural
configurations and determine which best serves the range of interests at stake
and raises fewer due process and other problems--not merely in theory but in
terms of participants' experiences on the ground.  n321

   Finally, it is also critical to consider whether procedural protections are
the panacea their proponents assume for fairness in conventional criminal law
[*1669]  administration.  n322 Because there is such great pressure on the
conventional courts due to high case volumes, the vast majority of cases are
handled through guilty pleas. Often public defenders have little time to
investigate a case before a client is advised to plead guilty. But if greater
numbers of cases were removed from the conventional criminal courts to
specialized criminal courts and other sectors, fewer cases would remain in
conventional courts, provided that specialized courts manage to avoid a
net-widening enforcement effect. This would permit more robust procedural
protections and investigations in the conventional criminal courts. Oddly then,
it is plausible that the removal of cases to a less adversarial specialized
criminal context may enhance procedural justice overall, improving procedural
safeguards in conventional courts rather than the outcome feared by
proceduralists.

   D. SPECIALIZATION FOR GOOD OR FOR ILL?

   A further peril of a specialized criminal courts law reform strategy is that
it may require a profusion of specialized courts to address the myriad problems
requiring reform. Convening a separate court for each separate area in which
substantive criminal law reform is desired would be enormously costly.  n323
Additionally, reliance on criminal court specialization might well threaten to
undermine rule of law values centered on a model of judges as neutral
generalists.  n324

   Although these are legitimate objections to certain forms of criminal court
specialization, a decarceration model is less likely to entail these troubling
features of specialization for two primary reasons. First, a decarceration model
is an interim strategy for criminal law reform, focused specifically on reducing
reliance on incarceration by setting in motion broader reform processes as
discussed previously in section II.D and Part III. Diversionary courts need not
aspire to become a permanent criminal law administrative fixture. Thus, a
diversionary decarceration model poses a less significant threat of
proliferating courts endlessly in response to every criminal law problem
requiring reform. As a consequence, this approach stands to intrude less upon
the predominant norm of generalist adjudication. Second, courts adopting a
decarceration approach need not be particularly substantively specialized. A
decarceration model could  [*1670]  incorporate within one court jurisdiction
over a range of different matters for which non-carceral sentencing is
preferred. This too stands to reduce the risk of endlessly proliferating
specialized criminal courts and positions specialized criminal court judges in a
role more akin to the prototypical generalist judge.  n325

   E. LEGITIMATION COSTS?

   Finally, specialized criminal courts threaten to impose significant
legitimation costs. First, specialized criminal courts may legitimate increased
harshness in conventional criminal courts once more sympathetic criminal
defendants have been removed. With the removal of presumably more vulnerable or
less blameworthy individuals from conventional criminal courts and prisons, one
might well envision an increase in punitive attitudes toward those remaining.
This is so even though it may be profoundly unfair to allow some criminal law
breakers access to specialized criminal courts because we perceive them to be
more worthy of our understanding, when others are really no more blameworthy.
n326

   A related risk is that in removing more purportedly sympathetic defendants
from conventional criminal courts, racial and class disproportion will increase,
with more defendants of color and materially poor defendants remaining in the
conventional courts.  n327 Indeed, that is precisely what occurred under
deinstitutionalization in the 1960s when the racialization of mental hospitals
increased.  n328 And preliminary results from mental health courts suggest this
trend is a problem in that context too, as a study of case processing in seven
mental health courts found overrepresentation at the point of referral of older
individuals, white persons, and women as compared to their proportion in the
criminal justice system generally.  n329 Though empirical monitoring enables
identification of the point at which racial disparities emerge, identification
of the locus of the problem does not by any stretch guarantee its elimination.
The convergence of interest between wealthier white defendants with mental
health or addiction problems and similarly addicted or mentally ill poorer
defendants of color--an interest convergence that likely contributed in large
measure to the emergence and widespread popularity of specialized criminal
courts--will be able to sustain a legitimate alternative sentencing regime only
if all defendants, irrespective  [*1671]  of socioeconomic status or race, have
equal access to favorable diversionary sentences.  n330

   Separately, there is the problem of potentially legitimating the management
of particular social challenges through criminal law by vesting more authority
in specialized criminal courts to address social problems.  n331 These are all
genuine and profoundly concerning problems associated with a specialized
criminal courts law reform strategy.

   There are several ways in which a decarceration model may attempt to address
these issues. At the outset, awareness of and careful attention to the
associated risks may help to minimize their occurrence and impact in the event
the problems identified come to pass. For example, ongoing empirical monitoring
may track any racial or class disproportion as it arises and direct attention to
the areas where the problem is greatest so that it might be addressed,
explicitly focusing institutional actors on confronting racial disparities in
referral, termination, or wherever else they are occurring. Ultimately, many of
the pathologies in U.S. criminal law administration have to do with race and
with racialization of the category of the criminal defendant or incarcerated
person, so meaningful criminal law reform will almost certainly require
grappling intensively with the racial dimensions of criminal law enforcement.
n332

   Insofar as a decarceration model seeks to unwind harsh punishment and
incarceration generally, this approach may serve more broadly to call into
question exceedingly punitive criminal law frameworks, both for those defendants
in specialized courts and those in conventional courts. Movement of judges
between conventional and specialized criminal courts may also serve to limit
stratification of the two systems.  n333 Admittedly, however, these cautionary
efforts may prove inadequate.

   Even so, in taking stock of these legitimation costs, as well as the other
problems considered in this Part, it is crucial to compare the problems
presented on a decarceration model with (a) the limits of the other competing
reformist models of specialized criminal law administration considered earlier
in this Article, and then to compare each of these to (b) the status quo in
conventional criminal case processing in the United States. That is, the limits
of a decarceration model or other specialized criminal law reformist model
should be considered as compared, not just to the objector's preferred utopian
alternative, but  [*1672]  relative to the status quo in U.S. criminal law
administration.  n334

   Procedural protections may be found wanting on a decarceration model, but are
these protections more meaningfully enforced in the standard criminal courts
where well over ninety percent of criminal cases end in a plea, following
proceedings, the character of which Malcolm Feeley powerfully captured in his
book The Process is the Punishment?  n335 Is the liberty-infringing character of
surveillance on a decarceration model more onerous than in prisons and jails,
where many more specialized court participants might well be were the courts to
be disbanded? Retributivists must consider too the relative achievement of
retributive goals in the specialized criminal court setting as compared to the
standard criminal process, which Feeley described decades ago as follows, and
which remains in these respects unimproved:


     [T]rials are rare events, and even protracted plea bargaining is an
     exception. Jammed every morning with a new mass of arrestees . . .
     [t]hese courts are chaotic and confusing; officials communicate in a
     verbal short-hand wholly unintelligible to the accused and accuser
     alike, and they seem to make arbitrary decisions, sending one person
     to jail and freeing the next. But for the most part they are lenient;
     they sentence few people to jail and impose few large fines.
     . . . .
     . . . Judges, bored by their jobs, become callous toward defendants
     who are so different from themselves. Prosecutors, dulled by their
     repetitive work . . . appear to be vindictive. Defense attorneys,
     depressed by feelings that their efforts are not appreciated, can
     easily begin to treat their clients carelessly.  n336

   And this picture is not unique to the second half of the twentieth century
when Feeley wrote his study of the New Haven criminal courts. Decades earlier,
Roscoe Pound decried a similar set of ills, which persist after what is now
approaching a century of efforts to improve conventional criminal law
administration:


     The bad physical surroundings, the confusion, the want of decorum, the
     undignified offhand disposition of cases at high speed, the frequent
     suggestion of something working behind the scenes . . . create in the
     minds of observers a general suspicion of the whole process of law
     enforcement . . . .  n337

   More recently, in his study of the Chicago criminal courts, investigative
[*1673]  journalist Steve Bogira sounded strikingly similar notes:


     Every day, Chicago police wagons swing onto the grounds of the Cook
     County Criminal Courthouse and deposit their cargo at a rear door. The
     prisoners being unloaded . . . are here for the usual reasons. . . .
     They tried to buy heroin from an undercover cop. They pocketed a fifth
     of booze at a grocery and failed to outrun the security guard.
     . . . .
     . . . The courtroom staff works . . . reflexively, not reflectively.
     The workers have no time to give much thought to any but the most
     extraordinary case, or to examine what they are doing.
     . . . .
     . . . [J]ustice miscarries every day, by doing precisely what we ask
     it to.  n338

   The bottom line is that the status quo to which a decarceration model should
be compared, absent a viable alternative reform proposal, is a status quo that
is deeply inadequate whether one is concerned about procedural justice, liberty,
racial disproportionality, or retributive punishment. Because these challenges
are not unique to specialized criminal courts but rather reflect problems
associated with conventional criminal law administration, it is no answer to
simply jettison specialized criminal courts and revert to conventional criminal
law frameworks.

   Still, given the myriad perils associated with the competing models of
specialized criminal courts elaborated in Part I, the question invariably comes
to mind: are the potential benefits of a decarceration model worth the risks
identified in specialized criminal courts in the preceding pages? This Article's
short answer is yes. Yes, that is, if the courts are able to employ the three
strategies elaborated here and in which some specialized criminal courts are
actively engaged: reframing social understandings of crime, punishment, and its
alternatives; institutionally reshaping the courts and associated agencies
themselves; and effecting systemic change, shifting a wide range of social
concerns to other sectors better equipped to address the problems at hand.

   CONCLUSION

   In this moment of increased openness to thoroughgoing criminal law reform,
after decades of escalating criminal sentences, thousands of specialized
criminal courts have emerged across the country and around the globe. These
courts have become the location of a contest between competing criminal law
models. Certain models at work in specialized criminal courts are configured in
such a way that threatens to produce a series of unintended and undesirable
consequences--increased and unnecessary criminal supervision, diminished
procedural  [*1674]  safeguards, and potentially even increased incarceration.
But a less predominant criminal law reformist model--a decarceration model--may
provide a way of developing different approaches to certain of the social
problems currently managed through criminal law.

   The greatest promise of a decarceration model--if it succeeds at engendering
a certain degree of cognitive reframing, institutional reinvention, and systemic
change--is to remove particular categories of offenses and offenders from
conventional criminal courts to be addressed both more effectively and more
humanely elsewhere. Primary candidates for such removal through existing
specialized criminal courts include drug offenders, mentally ill persons, and
individuals suffering the post-traumatic stress of war. Removal of these matters
to other sectors would reduce volume pressures on conventional criminal courts
so that they might more meaningfully and fairly address the relatively few cases
of serious violent and property crime, for which alternative processes seem
inappropriate or would be exceedingly unpopular. These more serious criminal
matters may not be handled best in the standard criminal process either, but we
have yet to identify a better approach. In due course, if specialized criminal
courts set in motion some measure of systemic change in criminal law
administration, they may both focus and improve responses in cases of serious
crime and simultaneously improve community economic development, accessible
public health services, employment, and more generally, human well-being. It is
also possible that specialized criminal courts will achieve none of these
things--that their perils rather than their possibilities will be their
legacy--but, given the grave inadequacies and injustices of the status quo in
U.S. criminal law administration, these courts are well worth trying.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesWeaponsGeneral OverviewCriminal Law &
ProcedureSentencingAlternativesSubstance Abuse ProgramsCriminal Law &
ProcedurePostconviction ProceedingsImprisonment

FOOTNOTES:





n1  See, e.g., LAUREN E. GLAZE, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, CORRECTIONAL
POPULATION IN THE UNITED STATES, 2010, at 1 (2011); PEW CENTER ON THE STATES,
ONE IN 31: THE LONG REACH OF AMERICAN CORRECTIONS 1 (2009); see also Carol S.
Steiker, Mass Incarceration: Causes, Consequences, and Exit Strategies, 9 OHIO
ST. J. CRIM. L. 1, 1 (2011) ("The American rate of incarceration has increased
more than fivefold since 1972 . . . [and] [t]he current rate is more than 700
per 100,000 . . . . The United States['] . . . rate of incarceration [is] . . .
higher than even the most violent societies and most oppressive regimes on the
planet[.] . . . The change in American incarceration rates is a shift relative
to a previously stable baseline that can only be described as revolutionary . .
. ." (footnotes omitted)).





n2  See, e.g., Charlie Savage, Trend To Lighten Harsh Sentences Catches On in
Conservative States, N.Y. TIMES, Aug. 12, 2011,
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/13/us/13penal.html (noting increasing support in
traditionally conservative states for reduced incarceration, including on the
part of prominent conservatives such as Edwin R. Meese III, Grover Norquist, and
Asa Hutchinson); see also Mass Incarceration in the United States: At What
Cost?: Hearing Before the J. Econ. Comm., 110th Cong. 1-2 (2007) (opening
statement of Sen. Jim Webb) ("[T]he United States now imprisons a higher
percentage of its citizens than any other country in the world. . . . The growth
in the prison population is only nominally related to crime rates. . . . The
racial composition of America's prisons is alarming. . . . [W]e are spending
enormous amounts of money to maintain [the prison] system."); Erik Luna & Paul
G. Cassell, Mandatory Minimalism, 32 CARDOZO L. REV. 1, 3 (2010) (noting
conservative support for eliminating mandatory minimums); William J. Stuntz, The
Pathological Politics of Criminal Law, 100 MICH. L. REV. 505, 509 (2001) ("As
criminal law expands, both lawmaking and adjudication pass into the hands of
police and prosecutors . . . . The end point of this progression is clear:
criminal codes that cover everything and decide nothing, that serve only to
delegate power to district attorneys' offices and police departments. . . . In a
criminal justice system that incarcerates two million people, criminal law is
becoming a sideshow. It seems like, and is, an unhealthy state of affairs.");
Lo[#xEF]c Wacquant, Class, Race & Hyperincarceration in Revanchist America,
D[#xC6]DALUS, Summer 2010, at 74, 74 ("[T]he joint rolling back of the stingy
social state and rolling out of the gargantuan penal state . . . have remade the
country's stratification, cities, and civic culture, and are recasting the very
character of 'blackness' itself."); Newt Gingrich & Pat Nolan, Op-Ed., Prison
Reform: A Smart Way for States To Save Money and Lives, WASH. POST, Jan. 7,
2011,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2011/01/06/AR2011010604386.h
tml (exploring the substantial potential of decarceration to reduce costs and
crime).





n3  See, e.g., JUDITH GREENE & MARC MAUER, THE SENTENCING PROJECT, DOWNSCALING
PRISONS: LESSONS FROM FOUR STATES 1-2 (2010); see also David Cole, Turning the
Corner on Mass Incarceration?, 9 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L. 27 (2011).





n4  See 131 S. Ct. 1910, 1944-47 (2011); see also Solomon Moore, California
Prisons Must Cut Inmate Population, N.Y. TIMES, Aug. 4, 2009,
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/08/05/us/05calif.html.





n5  See, e.g., Louis Michael Seidman, Hyper-Incarceration and Strategies of
Disruption: Is There a Way Out?, 9 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L. 109 (2011); Robert
Weisberg & Joan Petersilia, The Dangers of Pyrrhic Victories Against Mass
Incarceration, D[#xC6]DALUS, Summer 2010, at 124.





n6  Several points of terminological clarification are in order. "Carceral"
sentencing refers to prisonand jail-based criminal sanctions. I use the term
"specialized criminal court" to refer to courts that specialize in a specific
subset of criminal cases, such as matters in which defendants are veterans or
the charged conduct is drug related. This specialization is distinct from that
of many state trial courts that hear criminal cases exclusively and are
specialized in that respect. See LAWRENCE BAUM, SPECIALIZING THE COURTS xi
(2011). "Decarceration" refers to the consistent reduction of the number of
people sent to prison or jail, with the ultimate aim of abandoning imprisonment
as a dominant mechanism for achieving social order.





n7  See, e.g., RACHEL PORTER ET AL., CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, WHAT MAKES A
COURT PROBLEM SOLVING?: UNIVERSAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR PROBLEM-SOLVING
JUSTICE iii, 50-56 (2010). There is overwhelming bipartisan endorsement of
specialized criminal courts and every state has at least one such court. See,
e.g., RESOLUTION 22: IN SUPPORT OF PROBLEM-SOLVING COURT PRINCIPLES AND METHODS
(Conference of Chief Justices & Conference of State Court Adm'rs, adopted July
29, 2004), http://ccj.ncsc.dni.us/CourtAdmin
Resolutions/ProblemSolvingCourtPrinciplesAndMethods.pdf; see also GREG BERMAN &
JOHN FEINBLATT, GOOD COURTS: THE CASE FOR PROBLEM-SOLVING JUSTICE 9-10 (2005);
Judith S. Kaye, Delivering Justice Today: A Problem-Solving Approach, 22 YALE L.
& POL'Y REV. 125, 130 (2004) ("[T]hese courts have developed a new
architecture--including new technology, new staffing, and new linkages--to
improve the effectiveness of court sanctions, particularly intermediate
sanctions . . . ."). Criminal court specialization has also influenced criminal
law administration abroad. See JAMES L. NOLAN JR., LEGAL ACCENTS, LEGAL
BORROWING: THE INTERNATIONAL PROBLEM-SOLVING COURT MOVEMENT (2009).





n8  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 6 ("[P]roblem-solving courts seek
to reduce the criminal justice system's reliance on incarceration . . . .");
John A. Bozza, Benevolent Behavior Modification: Understanding the Nature and
Limitations of Problem-Solving Courts, 17 WIDENER L.J. 97, 98 (2007).





n9  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 5-10.





n10  See, e.g., JAMES L. NOLAN, JR., REINVENTING JUSTICE: THE AMERICAN DRUG
COURT MOVEMENT (2001).





n11  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 3; NOLAN, supra note 10, at 185
("What we are doing here is no less than a complete revolution in
jurisprudence." (quoting Judge Peggy Hora)).





n12  See Peggy Fulton Hora et al., Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Drug
Treatment Court Movement: Revolutionizing the Criminal Justice System's Response
to Drug Abuse and Crime in America, 74 NOTRE DAME L. REV. 439, 463-64 (1999)
(describing how drug courts work to "shift the paradigm" of legal processing of
drug cases); see also DRUG STRATEGIES, DRUG COURTS: A REVOLUTION IN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE 2, 5 (1999) ("[T]his entirely new approach has revolutionized
traditional attitudes toward criminal justice."). A separate body of empirical
analyses focuses on how specialized criminal courts reduce costs and recidivism,
though it is not always clear whether these studies adequately control for
potential selection and attrition biases. See, e.g., SHANNON M. CAREY & MARK S.
WALLER, NPC RESEARCH, OREGON DRUG COURT COST STUDY: STATEWIDE COSTS AND
PROMISING PRACTICES (2011) (finding that Oregon drug courts have produced cost
savings, and are projected to save taxpayers even more in the future); Scott
W.M. Burrus et al., Show Me the Money: Child Welfare Cost Savings of a Family
Drug Court, JUV. & FAM. CT. J., Summer 2011, at 1, 10-11 & tbl.2 (finding that
family drug court in Baltimore, Maryland reduced foster care-related
expenditures); see also SHELLI B. ROSSMAN ET AL., URBAN INST., THE MULTI-SITE
ADULT DRUG COURT EVALUATION: THE IMPACT OF DRUG COURTS 246-47 (2011) (concluding
that "drug courts--while effective at reducing costly criminal offending--are
also expensive enough to offset those costs").





n13  See, e.g., Michael C. Dorf & Charles F. Sabel, Drug Treatment Courts and
Emergent Experimentalist Government, 53 VAND. L. REV. 831, 883 (2000) ("The very
existence of treatment courts is remarkable, their rapid diffusion, provisional
successes, and continual experimentalist self-examination doubly so. . . .
Surely there is hope for the renewal of our public institutions in this
surprising success."). Proponents of specialized criminal courts generally
contend that conventional U.S. criminal law administration is deeply
compromised, and specialized criminal courts may better address individual cases
and improve criminal justice results overall. See, e.g., Brenda Bratton Blom et
al., Community Voice and Justice: An Essay on Problem-Solving Courts as a Proxy
for Change, 10 U. MD. L.J. RACE, RELIGION, GENDER & CLASS 25, 36-37 (2010).





n14  See, e.g., Josh Bowers, Contraindicated Drug Courts, 55 UCLA L. REV. 783,
786, 830-35 (2008) (critically examining adverse consequences of drug courts and
proposing instead that such courts be transformed into voluntary rehabilitation
programs) ("Put concretely, drug courts are 'contraindicated' for genuine
addicts . . . . The consequent adverse effects may be atypically long prison
sentences for the very defendants that drug courts were supposed to keep out of
prison and off of drugs." (footnote omitted)); Mae C. Quinn, The Modern
Problem-Solving Court Movement: Domination of Discourse and Untold Stories of
Criminal Justice Reform, 31 WASH. U. J.L. & POL'Y 57, 80-82 (2009); see also
NAT'L ASS'N OF CRIMINAL DEF. LAWYERS, AMERICA'S PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS: THE
CRIMINAL COSTS OF TREATMENT AND THE CASE FOR REFORM (2009).





n15  See Erica Goode, Coming Together To Fight for a Troubled Veteran, N.Y.
TIMES, July 17, 2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/18/us/18vets.html.





n16  DEREK DENCKLA& GREG BERMAN, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, RETHINKING THE
REVOLVING DOOR: ALOOK AT MENTAL ILLNESS IN THE COURTS 17 (2001) (emphasis
added).





n17  See James L. Nolan, Jr., Therapeutic Adjudication, 39 SOCIETY 29, 32
(2002).





n18  See infra Part II.





n19  See infra section II.A.





n20  See infra section II.B.





n21  See infra section II.C.





n22  A decarceration model is potentially applicable to any specialized criminal
court--a mental health court, veterans court, drug court, or reentry
court--which is organized in significant part to decrease reliance on
incarceration and to devise more effective and humane sentencing alternatives.
See infra sections II.D-IV.





n23  See infra section II.D.





n24  A notable feature of many specialized criminal courts, and one common to
courts adopting a decarceration model, is the incorporation of resident or
external researchers within the courts' institutional design. Internal and
external empirical monitoring entities generate extensive information regarding
the courts' operations. See, e.g., Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 833 ("What
makes the drug courts distinctive and innovative . . . is the novel form of
monitoring, and governance more generally, upon which they rely."). But see
David A. Super, Laboratories of Destitution: Democratic Experimentalism and the
Failure of Antipoverty Law, 157 U. PA. L. REV. 541 (2008) (critically analyzing
democratic experimentalism for mistakenly assuming consensus, reliable metrics
for measuring success, and costless deliberation, among other problems). A
decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration aims to take on
board some of Super's critiques of democratic experimentalism and, at the same
time, to embrace institutional flexibility and ongoing empirically informed
self-evaluation, with attention to building consensus on the substantive ends of
reducing reliance on incarceration through alternative forms of social
integration.





n25  Cf. NAT'L ASS'N OF CRIMINAL DEF. LAWYERS, supra note 14; Bowers, supra note
14.





n26  See, e.g., PORTER ET AL., supra note 7, at 8 ("The potential for bringing
the [specialized criminal] problem-solving court model to scale . . . remains
largely unrealized . . . ").





n27  See infra Parts I-IV.





n28  See, e.g., BRUCE WESTERN, PUNISHMENT AND INEQUALITY IN AMERICA (2006); see
also John C. Coffee, Jr., Hush!: The Criminal Status of Confidential Information
After McNally and Carpenter and the Enduring Problem of Overcriminalization, 26
AM. CRIM. L. REV. 121 (1988); Sanford H. Kadish, The Crisis of
Overcriminalization, 374 ANNALS AM. ACAD. POL. & SOC. SCI. 157 (1967); Erik
Luna, The Overcriminalization Phenomenon, 54 AM. U. L. REV. 703 (2005).





n29  DAVID GARLAND, THE CULTURE OF CONTROL: CRIME AND SOCIAL ORDER IN
CONTEMPORARY SOCIETY (2001).





n30  JAMES Q. WHITMAN, HARSH JUSTICE: CRIMINAL PUNISHMENT AND THE WIDENING
DIVIDE BETWEEN AMERICA AND EUROPE (2003).





n31  LOIC WACQUANT, PUNISHING THE POOR: THE NEOLIBERAL GOVERNMENT OF SOCIAL
INSECURITY (2009); LOIC WACQUANT, URBAN OUTCASTS: A COMPARATIVE SOCIOLOGY OF
ADVANCED MARGINALITY (2008); WESTERN, supra note 28.





n32  JONATHAN SIMON, GOVERNING THROUGH CRIME: HOW THE WAR ON CRIME TRANSFORMED
AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CREATED A CULTURE OF FEAR (2007).





n33  See William J. Stuntz, Plea Bargaining and Criminal Law's Disappearing
Shadow, 117 HARV. L. REV. 2548, 2550 (2004) ("The greater the territory
substantive criminal law covers, the smaller the role that law plays in
allocating criminal punishment.").





n34  See, e.g., SIMON, supra note 32; LOIC WACQUANT, PRISONS OF POVERTY 5
(2009).





n35  See HEATHER C. WEST, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, PRISON INMATES AT
MIDYEAR 2009-STATISTICAL TABLES 2 (2010) ("Black non-Hispanic males . . . were
incarcerated at a rate more than 6 times higher than white non-Hispanic males .
. . . "); Bruce Western et al., Crime, Punishment, and American Inequality 7
(June 2003) (unpublished working paper), available at
http://inequality.princeton.edu/papers/western-crime.pdf ("Incredibly, 29
percent of black male dropouts under age 40 were behind bars on an average day
in 2000."); see also MICHELLE ALEXANDER, THE NEW JIM CROW: MASS INCARCERATION IN
THE AGE OF COLORBLINDNESS (2010); DAVID COLE, NO EQUAL JUSTICE: RACE AND CLASS
IN THE AMERICAN CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM (1999); WESTERN, supra note 28; Becky
Pettit & Bruce Western, Mass Imprisonment and the Life Course: Race and Class
Inequality in U.S. Incarceration, 69 AM. SOC. REV. 151 (2004).





n36  See, e.g., JOHN J. GIBBONS & NICHOLAS DE B. KATZENBACH, CONFRONTING
CONFINEMENT: A REPORT OF THE COMMISSION ON SAFETY AND ABUSE IN AMERICA'S PRISONS
23, 26-27 (2006).





n37  See, e.g., HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH, NO ESCAPE: MALE RAPE IN U.S. PRISONS, at v,
63 (2001); see also Sharon Dolovich, Strategic Segregation in the Modem Prison,
48 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1, 2 (2011) ("[I]t is well recognized that people who are
gay or transgender face heightened vulnerability to sexual victimization behind
bars." (footnotes omitted)).





n38  CHARLES DICKENS, 1 AMERICAN NOTES FOR GENERAL CIRCULATION 239 (Chapman &
Hall 2d ed. 1842).





n39  GRESHAM M. SYKES, THE SOCIETY OF CAPTIVES: A STUDY OF A MAXIMUM SECURITY
PRISON 79 (1958).





n40  See, e.g., GIBBONS & KATZENBACH, supra note 36, at 11.





n41  See PEW CENTER ON THE STATES, supra note 1, at 1 (also noting that among
certain demographics correctional supervision rates are even starker--for
example, one in eleven African-Americans are under correctional control).





n42  See, e.g., JOHN SCHMITT ET AL., CTR. FOR ECON. & POLICY RESEARCH, THE HIGH
BUDGETARY COST OF INCARCERATION 2, 10 (2010).





n43  See, e.g., Mary Bosworth, Penal Moderation in the United States?: Yes We
Can, 10 CRIMINOLOGY & PUB. POL'Y 335, 335-36 (2011).





n44  See Shelley Johnson Listwan et al., Cracks in the Penal Harm Movement:
Evidence from the Field, 7 CRIMINOLOGY & PUB. POL'Y 423, 450 (2008).





n45  See, e.g., Vanessa Barker, Explaining the Great American Crime Decline: A
Review of Blumstein and Wallman, Goldberger and Rosenfeld, and Zimring, 35 LAW &
SOC. INQUIRY 489 (2010); Allison Klein, Drop in Violent Crime in D.C. Area and
Some Other Major Cities Puzzles Experts, WASH. POST, July 20, 2009,
http://www.washington
post.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/07/19/AR2009071902154.html; Evan Perez,
Violent Crime Falls Sharply, WALL ST. J., May 25, 2010,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704113504575264432463469618.html;
see also FRANKLIN E. ZIMRING, THE GREAT AMERICAN CRIME DECLINE 57-98 (2007)
(critically analyzing the tendency to attribute crime decline to any single
explicit policy change); Steven D. Levitt, Understanding Why Crime Fell in the
1990s: Four Factors that Explain the Decline and Six that Do Not, 18 J. ECON.
PERSP. 163, 170-83 (2004) (explaining the decline in crime in terms of legalized
abortion, increased police presence, more incarceration, and decrease in crack
cocaine use).





n46  See, e.g., N.Y. CORRECT. L. §§ 270-273 (McKinney 2003 & Supp. 2012)
(providing authority to counties and the city of New York to convene "local
conditional release commissions" to consider candidates for early release); 61
PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. §§ 4503-4506 (West 2010) (permitting a reduction of up to
twenty-five percent of non-violent offender's sentence to encourage offender to
engage in rehabilitative programming); see also Kirk Mitchell, First 10 Felons
Set Free Under Colorado Early-Release Initiative, DENVER POST, Oct. 15, 2009,
http://www.denverpost.com/ci_13564285; Riley Yates, Release Plan for Convicts
Starts Slow, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE, Sept. 26, 2010, at A14. The Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania has estimated that its Recidivism Risk Reduction Incentive
(RRRI) program--created by the statutory provisions cited above--saves the state
nearly $ 10,000 per RRRI inmate, for a total savings of more than $ 11 million
over the first two years of the program's existence. BRET BUCKLEN & JACQUELINE
YOUNG, PA. DEP'T OF CORR., RECIDIVISM RISK REDUCTION INCENTIVE 2010 REPORT 1
(2011).





n47  See, e.g., Jessica Fender, More Rehab, Less Jail in Drug-Reform Measure,
DENVER POST, Feb. 24, 2010, http://www.denverpost.com/ci_14459351 (reporting on
Colorado legislation reducing offense of possession of between eight and twelve
ounces of marijuana from a felony punishable by up to six years in prison to a
misdemeanor); see also Debi Brazzale, HB10-1352: Lawmakers Unite Behind New
Approach to Drug Offenders, STATE BILL NEWS (Feb. 24, 2010),
http://www.statebillnews.com/2010/02/hb10-1352-lawmakers-unite-behind-new-approa
ch-to-drug-offenders/ (reporting on the same Colorado legislation).





n48  See, e.g., Mary D. Fan, Beyond Budget-Cut Criminal Justice: The Future of
Penal Law, 90 N.C. L. REV. (forthcoming 2012) (working paper draft at 2),
available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1804539.





n49  GREENE & MAUER, supra note 3, at 1.





n50  Id. at 3.





n51  Id. Subsequently, Michigan achieved a twelve percent reduction in its
prison population and Kansas a five percent reduction. See id. at 2.





n52  See, e.g., JUDITH GREENE, JUSTICE STRATEGIES, POSITIVE TRENDS AND BEST
PRACTICES IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM: A NATIONAL OVERVIEW 12-15 (2009); Casey
Seiler, Paterson Signs Drug Law Reform, CAPITOL CONFIDENTIAL (Apr. 24, 2009,
11:22 AM),
http://blog.timesunion.com/capitol/archives/13869/paterson-signs-drug-law-reform
/ (quoting release from the governor's office regarding repeal of the
Rockefeller Drug Laws and relating "three significant pieces of the new laws,"
including first that "they create a drug treatment program to be administered by
drug court judges"). From 1999 to 2009, New York reduced its prison population
by twenty percent. GREENE & MAUER, supra note 3, at 5.





n53  See Rosemary Gartner et al., The Past as Prologue?: Decarceration in
California Then and Now, 10 CRIMINOLOGY & PUB. POL'Y 291, 296, 319 (2011); see
also CAL. CITIES GANG PREVENTION NETWORK, 18TH BULLETIN (2010), available at
http://www.ccgpn.org/Publications/CA%20Cities%20Bulletin%2018.pdf (discussing SB
X3 18). Interestingly, the California Correctional and Peace Officers
Association did not publicly work against SB X3 18, though this may be due to
the legislation's limited anticipated effects on prison reliance. See Gartner et
al., supra, at 319.





n54  Pub. L. No. 110-199, 122 Stat. 657 (2008) (codified as amended in scattered
sections of 18 and 42 U.S.C.). Like other legislative reforms enabling
alternatives to incarceration, Second Chance Act programs must establish that
they are "evidence-based," requiring an evaluation using "evidenced-based
methodology and outcome measures." Id. § 101(d)(3); see also id. §§ 3(a)(3),
113, 201(c)(2)(D), 231 (d)(3)(B), 241(b)(6).





n55  Id. §§ 111, 112.





n56  Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-220, 124 Stat. 2372; see also
Jim Abrams, Congress Passes Bill To Reduce Disparity in Crack, Powder Cocaine
Sentencing, WASH. POST, July 29, 2010,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/28/AR2010072802969.
html.





n57  See, e.g., DAVID M. KENNEDY, DON'T SHOOT: ONE MAN, A STREET FELLOWSHIP, AND
THE END OF VIOLENCE IN INNER-CITY AMERICA (2011) (documenting Professor
Kennedy's implementation of his "Operation Ceasefire" program in cities
throughout the United States, with the cooperation of local police departments).





n58  See, e.g., Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y.
TIMES, Aug. 15, 2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n59  See, e.g., RONALD V. CLARKE, U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE, SHOPLIFTING 20 (2002),
available at http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/pdf/el0011345.pdf; see also Neal Kumar
Katyal, Architecture as Crime Control, 111 YALE L.J. 1039, 1041-42 (2002);
Cecelia Klingele et al., Essay, Reimagining Criminal Justice, 2010 WIS. L. REV.
953, 975-76.





n60  130 S. Ct. 2011, 2028-33 (2010).





n61  Id. Subsequently, in its 2011 opinion in Tapia v. United States, the Court
rejected rehabilitation as a ground on which to impose a lengthier federal
prison sentence. 131 S. Ct. 2382, 2393 (2011) (holding that "a court may not
impose or lengthen a prison sentence . . . to promote rehabilitation").





n62  131 S. Ct. 1910, 1944-47 (2011).





n63  See, e.g., PAUL BUTLER, LET'S GET FREE: A HIP-Hop THEORY OF JUSTICE 23-40
(2009) (citing studies exploring harms associated with high levels of
incarceration); Dorothy E. Roberts, The Social and Moral Cost of Mass
Incarceration in African American Communities, 56 STAN. L. REV. 1271, 1281-97
(2004) (citing and discussing scholarship focused on incarceration-related
harms).





n64  Perhaps most prominently, the right-wing criminal law reform campaign,
"Right on Crime," is committed to markedly reducing reliance on incarceration.
See, e.g., Savage, supra note 2.





n65  See Bosworth, supra note 43, at 336; see also ANGELA Y. DAVIS, ARE PRISONS
OBSOLETE? 21 (2003) ("The most difficult and urgent challenge today is that of
creatively exploring new terrains of justice, where the prison no longer serves
as our major anchor.").





n66  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 9; see also NOLAN, supra note 10, at
134. Although addiction itself cannot be criminalized, coerced treatment may
serve as a response to conviction for possession of narcotics in lieu of a jail
or prison sentence. See Robinson v. California, 370 U.S. 660, 667 (1962)
(holding unconstitutional a California statute criminalizing narcotics addiction
as cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth and Fourteenth
Amendments). But see Powell v. Texas, 392 U.S. 514, 532-33 (1968) (plurality
opinion) (holding that the Texas statute rendering public intoxication criminal
did not constitute cruel and unusual punishment). The Nixon Administration's
Treatment Alternatives to Street Crime (TASC) program, a predecessor to the drug
court movement, also provided for diversion from adjudication to drug treatment.
But TASC differed in that it diverted cases from the courts for treatment,
whereas drug courts generally supervise the treatment process itself. See NOLAN,
supra note 10, at 36.





n67  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 203 n.3.





n68  See ROBERT V. WOLF, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, 'A NEW WAY OF DOING
BUSINESS': A CONVERSATION ABOUT THE STATEWIDE COORDINATION OF PROBLEM-SOLVING
COURTS 12 (2009) [hereinafter WOLF, A NEW WAY] ("[P]ositive evaluations have
generated bipartisan support, allowing [Maryland's] statewide problem-solving
committee to influence public policy . . . ." (paraphrasing Judge Jamey Hueston
of the Maryland Problem-Solving Courts Commission)); ROBERT V. WOLF, CTR. FOR
COURT INNOVATION, NEIGHBORHOOD KNOWLEDGE: COMMUNITY PROSECUTION IN WASHINGTON
D.C. 3-4 (2001) (noting that, during the Clinton administration, Eric Holder,
then deputy attorney general, championed community prosecution); Anthony C.
Thompson, Courting Disorder: Some Thoughts on Community Courts, 10 WASH. U. J.L.
& POL'Y 63, 84-85 (2002) (noting that Republican New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani
introduced certain problem-solving courts as part of a broader order-maintenance
crime control policy); see also America's Oldest War: The Efficacy of United
States Drug Policy, 30 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 401, 411 (2003) ("But we should have
new ideas and support things that work, such as drug courts that have treatment
with accountability for those with addiction problems . . . ." (statement of Asa
Hutchinson, former Republican legislator and then-Administrator of the Drug
Enforcement Administration)); Adriaan Lanni, The Future of Community Justice, 40
HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 359, 369 (2005).





n69  See NOLAN, supra note 10, at 43-44.





n70  See id. at 143.





n71  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 8.





n72  Although many commentators refer to the problem-oriented approach of
specialized criminal courts as "problem-solving justice," I prefer the term
"problem-oriented justice" because most of the relevant "problems" are unlikely
to be "solved" by the courts and because the conceptual origins of this approach
lie in problem-oriented policing. See Greg Berman & Aubrey Fox, The Future of
Problem-Solving Justice: An International Perspective, 10 U. MD. L.J. RACE,
RELIGION, GENDER & CLASS 1 (2010) (exploring the emergence of the rubric of
problem-solving justice and the nature of some of the profound problems the
courts aim to address).





n73  See, e.g., PAMELA M. CASEY & DAVID B. ROTTMAN, NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS,
PROBLEM SOLVING COURTS: MODELS AND TRENDS (2003); JUSTICE POLICY INST., ADDICTED
TO COURTS: HOW A GROWING DEPENDENCE ON DRUG COURTS IMPACTS PEOPLE AND
COMMUNITIES 2 (2011).





n74  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 5 ("[A] case is a problem to be
solved, not just a matter to be adju[di]cated."); GREG BERMAN & JOHN FEINBLATT,
CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS: A BRIEF PRIMER 3 (2001)
("Problem--solving courts use their authority to forge new responses to chronic
social, human and legal problems--including problems like family dysfunction,
addiction, delinquency and domestic violence-that have proven resistant to
conventional solutions."); NOLAN, supra note 10, at 141 ("[T]he issue of
guilt/innocence is not of concern." (quoting Judge McKinney)); Kay L. Levine,
The New Prosecution, 40 WAKE FOREST L. REV. 1125, 1127 (2005) ("Problem-oriented
approaches challenge law enforcement personnel to abandon their traditional
reactive orientations in favor of proactive efforts to solve social problems . .
. ."). Public defenders have also proposed more problem-oriented advocacy,
focusing on "holistic" client-centered defense rather than on victory in a
particular case. See, e.g., Robin Steinberg & David Feige, Cultural Revolution:
Transforming the Public Defender's Office, 29 N.Y.U. REV. L. & SOC. CHANGE 123,
124 (2004).





n75  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 23-24.





n76  Criminal law reformers convened specialized criminal courts as thousands of
new cases entered the system. The greatest increase in case filings was in the
area of domestic relations where, between 1984 and 1998, cases increased by
seventy-five percent. These increases were caused in part by expanding criminal
law enforcement, which resulted in more police officers and more cases went
forward due to expanded prosecutorial funding and "'no-drop' prosecution
policies." See id. at 23-26.





n77  See Eric Lane, Due Process and Problem-Solving Courts, 30 FORDHAM URB. L.J.
955, 955-56 (2003) (quoting Justice Kathleen A. Blatz of Minnesota's Supreme
Court and citing BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 74). The Honorable Jonathan
Lippman, Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals, has likewise described
New York's specialized criminal courts as "a judicially-created, statewide
architecture." Jonathan Lippman, How One State Reduced Both Crime and
Incarceration, 38 HOFSTRA L. REV. 1045, 1053 (2010).





n78  See, e.g., CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, www.courtinnovation.org.





n79  Pub. L. No. 106-515, 114 Stat. 2399 (2000).





n80  See Henry J. Steadman et al., From Referral to Disposition: Case Processing
in Seven Mental Health Courts, 23 BEHAV. SCI. & L. 215, 220 (2005); Shauhin
Talesh, Mental Health Court Judges as Dynamic Risk Managers: A New
Conceptualization of the Role of Judges, 57 DEPAUL L. REV. 93, 112 (2007).





n81  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 18.





n82  See ROBERT V. WOLF, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, REENTRY COURTS: LOOKING
AHEAD 11-12 (2011); Reentry Courts: An Emerging Trend, REENTRY POLICY COUNCIL
(Sept. 20, 2005),
http://reentrypolicy.org/announcements/reentry_courts_emerging_trend.





n83  See Michael Daly Hawkins, Coming Home: Accommodating the Special Needs of
Military Veterans to the Criminal Justice System, 7 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L. 563,
563-70 (2010); William H. McMichael, The Battle on the Home Front: Special
Courts Turn to Those Who Served To Help Troubled Vets Regain Discipline,
Camaraderie, ABA J., Nov. 2011, at 42-48.





n84  See, e.g., Megan McCloskey, Veterans Court Takes a Chance on Violent
Offenders, STARS & STRIPES (Sept. 14, 2010),
http://www.stripes.com/veterans-court-takes-a-chance-on-violent-offenders-1.1181
82; see also Kathleen Kreller, Idaho Court Would Assist Veterans Who Land in the
Legal System in Getting Help--Instead of Hard Time, IDAHO STATESMAN (Apr. 17,
2011),
http://www.idahostatesman.com/2011/04/17/1612614/idaho-considers-veterans-court.
html.





n85  Interview by Carolyn Turgeon with Judge John Leventhal, Brooklyn Felony
Domestic Violence Court (Feb. 2005), available at
http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/judge-john-leventhal-brooklynfelony-dome
stic-violence-court.





n86  When asked what he thought the future of the sex offense courts would be,
Judge James McCarthy of the Oswego County Sex Offense Court replied: "I think
you will find a sex offender court in every county in New York and every state
in this country. Sex offender courts are going to expand because the public
wants to see compliance and monitoring by the criminal justice system of sex
offenders that are in the community." Interview by the Center for Court
Innovation with Judge James McCarthy, Oswego County Sex Offense Court, available
at http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/james-mccarthy-judge-oswego-county.





n87  See, e.g., REBECCA THOMFORDE-HAUSER & JULI ANA GRANT, CTR. FOR COURT
INNOVATION, SEX OFFENSE COURTS: SUPPORTING VICTIM AND COMMUNITY SAFETY THROUGH
COLLABORATION 1-2 (2010); see also LAWRENCE A. GREENFELD, BUREAU OF JUSTICE
STATISTICS, SEX OFFENSES AND OFFENDERS: AN ANALYSIS OF DATA ON RAPE AND SEXUAL
ASSAULT (1997).





n88  See, e.g., Sarah E. Agudo, Comment, Irregular Passion: The
Unconstitutionality and Inefficacy of Sex Offender Residency Laws, 102 NW. U. L.
REV. 307, 308-11 (2008); see also Fourth Amended Complaint, Whitaker v. Perdue,
No. 4:06-cv-140-CC (N.D. Ga. Oct. 14, 2008), available at
http://www.schr.org/files/post/FILED%20FAC.pdf (challenging Georgia's sex
offender registry on behalf of a class of convicted sex offenders, the named
plaintiff of which is twenty eight-year-old Wendy Whitaker, who is on the
registry because at the age of seventeen she engaged in a single consensual act
of oral sex with a fifteen-year-old boy).





n89  See, e.g., THOMFORDE-HAUSER & GRANT, supra note 87, at 5-6.





n90  See Interview by the Center for Court Innovation with Judge James McCarthy,
supra note 86.





n91  A technical violation is a probation or parole rule infraction--such as a
missed curfew, missed probation counseling appointment, or dirty urine
analysis--which does not rise to the level of a criminal offense.





n92  See, e.g., PAUL HIGGINS & MITCHELL B. MACKINEM, PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS:
JUSTICE FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY? at ix (2009).





n93  See, e.g., PORTER ET AL., supra note 7, at 1.





n94  See id.





n95  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 6.





n96  See Dan M. Kahan, The Cognitively Illiberal State, 60 STAN. L. REV. 115,
145-48 (2007) (arguing that law and policy innovations that contain multiple
meanings, or are "expressively overdetermined," are most likely to be taken up).





n97  In contrast to the typology introduced here, political scientist Lawrence
Baum identifies three types of specialized criminal courts: those courts
convened to administer criminal law with (1) more harshness; (2) more lenity
and/or treatment; or (3) both. See BAUM, supra note 6, at 96-97. My analysis
permits closer understanding of the mechanisms that may drive particular
outcomes across different specialized criminal courts.





n98  See, e.g., NOLAN, supra note 7; see also NOLAN, supra note 10.





n99  See, e.g., Hora et al., supra note 12, at 439; Peggy Fulton Hora & William
G. Schma, Therapeutic Jurisprudence, 82 JUDICATURE 8 (1998); David Rottman &
Pamela Casey, Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Emergence of Problem-Solving
Courts, NAT'L INST. JUST. J., July 1999, at 12, 14-15.





n100  See Bruce J. Winick, The Jurisprudence of Therapeutic Jurisprudence, in
LAW IN A THERAPEUTIC KEY: DEVELOPMENTS IN THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE 645, 648
(David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick eds., 1996).





n101  Bruce J. Winick, Panel Remarks, The Changing Face of Justice: The
Evolution of Problem Solving, 29 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 1809, 1809 (2002).





n102  See JAMES L. NOLAN, JR., THE THERAPEUTIC STATE: JUSTIFYING GOVERNMENT AT
CENTURY'S END 80-83 (1998).





n103  See, e.g., E. Lea Johnston, Theorizing Mental Health Courts, 89 WASH. U.
L. REV. (forthcoming 2012).





n104  The rehabilitative model "fell into disfavor" because "it produced serious
disparities in the sentences imposed on similarly situated defendants" and
because many came to believe "that the system's attempt to achieve
rehabilitation of offenders had failed." See Tapia v. United States, 131 S. Ct.
2382, 2387 (2011) (quoting Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 365-66
(1989)) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n105  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 9; see also id. at 34-35.





n106  See Judith Resnik, Managerial Judges, 96 HARV. L. REV. 374, 376 (1982)
("[J]udges are not supposed to have an involvement or interest in the
controversies they adjudicate. Disengagement and dispassion supposedly enable
judges to decide cases fairly and impartially.").





n107  Christopher Bruell, Sex Offender Courts: Implications for the Future
(paper presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Criminology
(ASC), Los Angeles Convention Center, Los Angeles, California, Nov. 1, 2006)
(summary available at
http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p127257_index.html?PHPSESSID=e4d700de960ebe
2892f7e9570253eca9) ("[I]t seems reasonable to believe that we should create and
utilize specialized sex offender courts, which can address sex offenders'
underlying addictions through treatment and graduated levels of community
supervision. These specialized sex offender courts should be based upon the
therapeutic jurisprudence approach used in drug courts and other problem-solving
courts.").





n108  Author's Notes, observation of D.C. Mental Health Diversion Court, July 6,
2011 (afternoon session) (on file with author).





n109  See id.





n110  See, e.g., STANLEY COHEN, VISIONS OF SOCIAL CONTROL: CRIME, PUNISHMENT,
AND CLASSIFICATION (1985) (exploring, in one of the first studies of its kind,
how development of criminal law administrative alternatives may produce a
widening "net" of penal control); see also Joel Gross, Note, The Effects of
Net-Widening on Minority and Indigent Drug Offenders: A Critique of Drug Courts,
10 U. MD. L.J. RACE, RELIGION, GENDER & CLASS 161, 162 (2010).





n111  See, e.g., LAWRENCE M. FRIEDMAN, CRIME AND PUNISHMENT IN AMERICAN HISTORY
6 (1993).





n112  See Guyora Binder, Punishment Theory: Moral or Political?, 5 BUFF. CRIM.
L. REV. 321, 321 (2002).





n113  See Ira Glass, Very Tough Love, THIS AM. LIFE (Mar. 25, 2011),
http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/430/transcript.





n114  See id. Judge Amanda Williams has challenged this characterization of her
court on a number of different grounds. See, e.g., Press Release, Georgia Judge
Rebuts Public Radio Story on Drug Court, (Apr. 14, 2011), available at
http://www.atlawblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/Williams-Rebuts-Glass-Press-
Release-April-14-2011.pdf. In response, attorneys for "This American Life"
maintain the basic accuracy of the program's account of the Glynn County,
Georgia Drug Court, and Judge Williams has subsequently retired after facing
state disciplinary charges. See Letter from Michael M. Conway, Foley & Lardner
LLP, to Prof. David G. Oedel, Mercer Univ. Law Sch. (Apr. 15, 2011), available
at
http://www.thisamericanlife.org/sites/default/files/Foley_response_to_Oedel_Apri
l_15_2011.pdf; Martha Neil, Longtime Ga. Judge Facing Disciplinary Case After
'This American Life' Broadcast Will Retire, ABA JOURNAL (Dec. 20, 2011, 5:28
PM),
http://www.abajournal.com/mobile/article/longtime_ga._judge_facing_disciplinary_
case_following_this_american_li/.





n115  See Glass, supra note 113.





n116  See id.





n117  See id.





n118  See id.





n119  See id.





n120  Even if portions of the widely-reported account of Judge Williams' drug
court are particularly egregious and unusual, the question the report raises
remains: that is, whether a court configured on a non-adversarial,
anti-formalist, psychotherapeutic model with largely unconstrained judicial
discretion poses the inherent risk of the sorts of outcomes attributed to the
Glynn County, Georgia Drug Court. This Article does not purport to identify any
definite outcomes that will necessarily follow from courts adopting a
therapeutic jurisprudence model but rather aims to develop a critical
theoretical framework within which to think about the possibilities and perils
of variously configured specialized criminal courts.





n121  See, e.g., JOSHUA DRESSLER, CASES AND MATERIALS ON CRIMINAL LAW 30-48 (5th
ed. 2009).





n122  Compare the purely therapeutic judicial orientation to the composite
sentencing approach provided for under the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Pub.
L. No. 98-473, ch. 2, according to which a federal sentencing judge is required
to:


     [C]onsider . . . (2) the need for the sentence imposed (A) to reflect
     the seriousness of the offense, to promote respect for the law, and to
     provide just punishment for the offense; (B) to afford adequate
     deterrence to criminal conduct; (C) to protect the public from further
     crimes of the defendant; and (D) to provide the defendant with needed
     educational or vocational training, medical care, or other
     correctional treatment in the most effective manner.


18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) (2006). As the U.S. Supreme Court explained in Tapia v.
United States: "These four considerations--retribution, deterrence,
incapacitation, and rehabilitation--are the four purposes of sentencing
generally, and a court must fashion a sentence to achieve these purposes . . .
." 131 S. Ct. 2382, 2387 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n123  See, e.g., Louis Michael Seidman, Soldiers, Martyrs, and Criminals:
Utilitarian Theory and the Problem of Crime Control, 94 YALE L.J. 315, 346-48
(1984) (examining how, in order to deter, criminal sanctions must also
communicate moral blame, necessarily intertwining utilitarian and retributive
approaches to punishment).





n124  See Richard C. Boldt, The "Tomahawk" and the "Healing Balm": Drug
Treatment Courts in Theory and Practice, 10 U. MD. L.J. RACE, RELIGION, GENDER &
CLASS 45, 65 (2010) (noting that "[under] treatment/punishment hybrids . . .
therapeutic impulses tend to collapse into punitive practices").





n125  See Hora et al., supra note 12, at 469-70.





n126  See Bozza, supra note 8, at 141-42.





n127  National research indicates that approximately three out of every four
arrestees in large cities test positive for drugs at the point of arrest. See
John Feinblatt et al., Judicial Innovation at the Crossroads: The Future of
Problem-Solving Courts, CT. MANAGER, Summer 2000, at 28, 29.





n128  See Lisa Shoaf, A Case Study of the Akron Mental Health Court, 32 CAP. U.
L. REV. 975, 995 (2004).





n129  See John E. Cummings, Comment, The Cost of Crazy: How Therapeutic
Jurisprudence and Mental Health Courts Lower Incarceration Costs, Reduce
Recidivism, and Improve Public Safety, 56 LOY. L. REV. 279, 281 (2010) (citing
telephone interview with Hon. Arthur L. Hunter, Jr., Chief Judge, Orleans Parish
Criminal District Court and Presiding Judge of the Louisiana Mental Health Court
(Mar. 31, 2009)).





n130  Foreshadowing this concern, C.S. Lewis, an early liberal critic of
rehabilitative sentencing, cautioned against a system of criminal punishment in
which


     only the psychotherapist can tell us what is likely to cure. It will
     be in vain for the rest of us, speaking simply as men, to say, "but
     this punishment is hideously unjust, hideously disproportionate to the
     criminal's deserts." The experts with perfect logic will reply, "but
     nobody was talking about deserts. No one was talking about punishment
     in your archaic vindictive sense of the word. Here are the statistics
     proving that this treatment deters. Here are the statistics proving
     that this other treatment cures. What is your trouble?"


C.S. Lewis, The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment, reprinted in 6 RES JUDICATAE
224, 226 (1953); see also Candace McCoy, Commentary, The Politics of
Problem-Solving: An Overview of the Origins and Development of Therapeutic
Courts, 40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1513, 1513-17 (2003) (discussing the tension and
potential conflict between the rehabilitative and coercive elements present in
juvenile justice administration).





n131  See James L. Nolan, Jr., Redefining Criminal Courts: Problem-Solving and
the Meaning of Justice, 40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1541, 1562 (2003) (quoting an
unidentified judge).





n132  See, e.g., DONALD J. FAROLE, JR. & AMANDA B. CISSNER, CTR. FOR COURT
INNOVATION, SEEING EYE TO EYE?: PARTICIPANT AND STAFF PERSPECTIVES ON DRUG
COURTS 1 (2005) ("[D]rug courts have been somewhat less successful in reducing
incarceration time. Although those who complete the program spend substantially
less time in prison than traditionally prosecuted cases, the relatively lengthy
sentences for those who do not complete, combined with programs' use of
short-term incarceration as a sanction for noncompliant participant behavior,
render the overall time incarcerated only slightly lower than that of comparable
non-drug court defendants." (citation omitted)). But see DOUGLAS B. MARLOWE &
WILLIAM G. MEYER, NAT'L DRUG COURT INST., THE DRUG COURT JUDICIAL BENCHBOOK
36-37 (2011) (recommending that incarceration should only be used as a
last-resort sanction).





n133  See FAROLE & CISSNER, supra note 132.





n134  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 9.





n135  See, e.g., Key Facts at a Glance: Correctional Populations, BUREAU OF
JUSTICE STATISTICS, http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/tables/corr2tab.cfm
(reflecting the disproportionately large number of individuals sentenced to
probation, as compared to prison or jail, in the United States from 1980 to
2009) (last revised Feb. 12, 2012).





n136  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 21.





n137  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 19.





n138  See Interview by Center for Court Innovation with Judge James McCarthy,
supra note 86.





n139  See, e.g., Glass, supra note 113.





n140  Joan Petersilia, A Decade of Experimenting With Intermediate Sanctions
What Have We Learned?, FED. PROBATION, Dec. 1998, at 3, 5.





n141  See, e.g., ZACHARY HAMILTON, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, DO REENTRY COURTS
REDUCE RECIDIVISM?: RESULTS FROM THE HARLEM PAROLE REENTRY COURT 4 (2010).





n142  See Nolan, supra note 17, at 32.





n143  See, e.g., supra notes 137-38 and accompanying text.





n144  To the extent reduced cost is a concern, judicial monitoring is more
resource intensive than probation or parole supervision as it relies on
relatively higher paid judges supervising relatively smaller case loads.





n145  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 103 ("By handling all felony cases
from the borough in a single courtroom, the court was designed to develop a
focused expertise in domestic violence.").





n146  See MELISSA LABRIOLA ET AL., CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, TESTING THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF BATTERER PROGRAMS AND JUDICIAL MONITORING 15-21 (2005)
(describing research methodology).





n147  Id. at 41-42; see also id. at 62 ("We anticipated that monitoring would
suppress recidivism, at least during the monitoring period itself. But judicial
monitoring had no more impact on re-offending than did batterer programs: When
we compared the offenders in our randomized trial--all of whom were
monitored--to a matched group of offenders who pled to violations and were
sentenced to a conditional discharge without monitoring, we found no differences
in nearly all re-arrest measures.").





n148  See id. But see Catherine Shaffer, Therapeutic Domestic Violence Courts:
An Efficient Approach to Adjudication?, 27 SEATTLE U. L. REV. 981, 995-96 (2004)
(reporting other studies of domestic violence batterer treatment programs that
demonstrated evidence of reduced recidivism).





n149  Similar concerns about the soundness of court monitoring and intervention
applies in the drug court context: some evaluations of drug courts show that
drug court monitoring and treatment achieve outcomes no better than traditional
in-community treatment, and other evaluations claim reduced recidivism but
suffer from significant methodological problems. See, e.g., Candace McCoy, Do
Drug Courts Work? For What, Compared to What? Qualitative Results from a Natural
Experiment, 5 VICTIMS & OFFENDERS 64 (2010) (exploring methodological problems
with drug court studies and analyzing natural experiment suggesting that drug
courts achieve outcomes equivalent to traditional in-community treatment).





n150  See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 29.





n151  See id.





n152  Petersilia, supra note 140, at 6; see also Joan Petersilia & Susan Turner,
Intensive Probation and Parole, 17 CRIME & JUST. 281, 311 (1993) (finding that,
in a study of ISP participants, "an average of 65 percent of the ISP clients
experience[d] a technical violation compared with 38 percent of the controls").





n153  In judicial monitoring courts, even before adjudication, defendants are
routinely subject to intensive supervision and mandatory treatment with the only
alternative being incarceration. This arrangement raises double jeopardy
concerns, among other problems: insofar as the preadjudication monitoring is
punitive in purpose, it effectively may lead to imposition of double punishment,
once preadjudication and subsequently postadjudication. See generally Deborah
Epstein, Procedural Justice: Tempering the State's Response to Domestic Violence
, 43 WM. & MARY L. REV. 1843 (2002) (explaining how social psychological
findings regarding perceptions of legitimacy and legal compliance indicate that
procedural justice may be important to reducing the incidence of domestic
violence recidivism and, hence, domestic violence court monitoring should attend
to this variable in determining court interventions).





n154  See Lo[#xEF]c Wacquant, Prisoner Reentry as Myth and Ceremony, 34
DIALECTICAL ANTHROPOLOGY 605, 616 (2010) (explaining how monitoring, along with
other community supervision programs, may extend the scope of criminal
supervision without offering any means to counteract the pressures toward
technical noncompliance and criminal offending that abound in under-resourced
neighborhoods). But see ANGELA HAWKEN & MARK KLEIMAN, MANAGING DRUG INVOLVED
PROBATIONERS WITH SWIFT AND CERTAIN SANCTIONS: EVALUATING HAWAII'S HOPE (2009),
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/229023.pdf (evaluating favorably
probation monitoring and flash incarceration intensive supervision program for
drug offenders in Hawaii for its reduction of reliance on prison sentencing for
high-risk drug offenders relative to less intensively surveillant conventional
supervision). It is worth noting that Project HOPE is a probation supervision,
as distinct from a specialized courts, regime, and, while Hawken and Kleiman's
study suggests HOPE probation may be preferable to the dysfunctional status quo
in conventional drug probation and parole, it is still heavily reliant on
incarceration and intensive criminal surveillance. See id.





n155  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 4.





n156  See id.





n157  Professor Bernard Harcourt powerfully criticizes this hypothesis, refuting
the oft-cited bases of empirical support for the theory and raising foundational
theoretical and empirical questions regarding broken windows policing. As
Harcourt explains in summary:


     First, the quality-of-life initiative may create the category of the
     disorderly. Second, the category of the disorderly may facilitate a
     policy of aggressive arrests, with the possibility of attendant
     brutality, even though such a policy is unlikely to have the slightest
     effect on crime rates. Third, the interplay of the norm of orderliness
     (discipline) and the ideals of justice (law) may succeed in blinding
     us to the disorder that accompanies the quality-of-life initiative.


Bernard E. Harcourt, Reflecting on the Subject: A Critique of the Social
Influence Conception of Deterrence, the Broken Windows Theory, and
Order-Maintenance Policing New York Style, 97 MICH. L. REV. 291, 368 (1998); see
also BERNARD E. HARCOURT, ILLUSION OF ORDER: THE FALSE PROMISE OF BROKEN WINDOWS
POLICING (2001).





n158  But see Harcourt, supra note 157, at 292-94.





n159  See, e.g., Victoria Malkin, Community Courts and the Process of
Accountability: Consensus and Conflict at the Red Hook Community Justice Center,
40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1573, 1574 (2003) ("[T]he unifying feature of these
community courts is their preoccupation with the 'quality of life' in local
neighborhoods.").





n160  See, e.g., BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 62.





n161  See generally MICHELE SVIRIDOFF ET AL., DISPENSING JUSTICE LOCALLY: THE
IMPLEMENTATION AND EFFECTS OF THE MIDTOWN COMMUNITY COURT (2000).





n162  See id.





n163  See id. at 129 ("[A]ll else being equal, petit larceny cases at Midtown
receive[d] jail sentences that [were] 31 days longer than similar cases Downtown
[at the main criminal courthouse], and . . . jail sentences for prostitution
cases tended to be longer at Midtown than Downtown.").





n164  Robert Victor Wolf, New Strategies for an Old Profession: A Court and a
Community Combat a Streetwalking Epidemic, 22 JUST. SYS. J. 347, 355 (2001).





n165  See SVIRIDOFF ET AL., supra note 161, at 129. As an aside, to the extent
that more vigorous enforcement of particular quality-of-life offenses, such as
prostitution, in one discrete area aims to eliminate that conduct (whether by
improving offenders' perceptions of legitimacy or otherwise), it is equally
likely that the undesired conduct will just be pushed to a different (not
necessarily distant) location. Further, all too often courts administering
specialized criminal law recognize the broader web of the problem at
stake--whether prostitution or shoplifting--but focus exclusively on an
individual's addiction or other personal issues that may be impossible to
meaningfully address without attending to background conditions that inform the
personal problems. See generally Jeffrey Fagan & Victoria Malkin, Theorizing
Community Justice Through Community Courts, 30 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 897, 948-49
(2003) ("Although originally designed to provide a creative and rich mix of
social and rehabilitative services to citizens with a variety of legal
entanglements and social problems living in a disadvantaged neighborhood the Red
Hook Community Justice Center relies heavily on drug treatment to address
residents' complex personal problems that do not easily fall into a simplified
medical treatment paradigm. Despite its notable achievements . . . the Justice
Center remains focused on milling the neighborhood's 'disorderly'--the
loiterers, the publicly intoxicated--into drug treatment of uncertain
effectiveness.").





n166  See Author's Site Visit Notes, Midtown Community Court, September 2011 (on
file with author).





n167  NORVAL MORRIS & MICHAEL TONRY, BETWEEN PRISON AND PROBATION: INTERMEDIATE
PUNISHMENTS IN A RATIONAL SENTENCING SYSTEM 225 (1990).





n168  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 72.





n169  See id.





n170  CLARKE, supra note 59, at 1-2.





n171  See id. at 6.





n172  See id. at 8-9; see also Klingele et al., supra note 59, at 975-76.





n173  Likewise, much auto theft may be prevented through straightforward changes
by auto manufacturers. See Ronald V. Clarke & Patricia M. Harris, Auto Theft and
Its Prevention, 16 CRIME & JUST. 1, 37 (1992). To provide another related
example of this approach, in Portland, Oregon, residents concerned about
open-air drug dealing in a local park turned on the park's sprinklers
periodically throughout the day, and it worked to disperse the drug dealing. As
one prosecutor related: "No expenditure of police or prosecutor resources, the
problem is solved, and all we did was water the lawn." See Klingele, et al.,
supra note 59, at 966 (citing AM. PROSECUTORS RESEARCH INST., UNWELCOME GUESTS:
A COMMUNITY PROSECUTION APPROACH TO STREET LEVEL DRUG DEALING AND PROSTITUTION 1
(2004) (quoting Multnomah County Deputy District Attorney Wayne Pearson)). Drug
transactions in Portland surely did not cease, but they shifted location and
that may be all that can be expected of crime control interventions of any kind.
See, e.g., Neal Kumar Katyal, Deterrence's Difficulty, 95 MICH. L. REV. 2385,
2392-97 (1997) (exploring how criminal law's deterrent effect may often lead to
substitution of one offense for another or displacement of crime rather than its
elimination).





n174  See Morris B. Hoffman, Commentary, The Drug Court Scandal, 78 N.C. L. REV.
1437, 1502 (2000).





n175  See Morris B. Hoffman, Commentary, A Neo-Retributionist Concurs with
Professor Nolan, 40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1567, 1567 (2003). But see Sue Lindsay,
City Resurrects Drug Court: Supporters Tout New Strategies To Avoid System's
Past Failures, ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS, Jan. 15, 2007,
http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-157582096.html.





n176  Alex Calabrese, Presiding Judge, Red Hook Community Justice Center, Speech
delivered at London, England (July 7, 2003) (quoted in BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra
note 7, at 16).





n177  See, e.g., Dan M. Kahan & Tracey L. Meares, Foreword, The Coming Crisis of
Criminal Procedure, 86 GEO. L.J. 1153, 1173-77 (1998); Tracey L. Meares & Dan M.
Kahan, Law and (Norms of) Order in the Inner City, 32 LAW & SOC'Y REV. 805, 832
(1998) ("When inner-city residents can choose for themselves the law enforcement
policies that will work for them, crime is reduced through community
empowerment.");William J. Stuntz, Unequal Justice, 121 HARV. L. REV. 1969, 1974
(2008).





n178  See Fagan & Malkin, supra note 165, at 943-47; Lanni, supra note 68, at
381; Malkin, supra note 159, at 1585-86.





n179  As one supporter of the Portland Community Court remarked, "Now people are
buying property, and when you own property, you care about it. . . . Now we feel
like we can really invest in a home here." BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at
82 & 207 nn. 16-17 (citing Voice from the Neighborhood, Community Court
Reporter, Portland Oregon Community Court, June 2001 (quoting Susan Cox,
resident of Southeast Portland)). The most vocal supporters of the Midtown
Community Court in Manhattan are likewise those local residents whose real
estate assets benefitted considerably from the gentrification enabled by order
maintenance policing. See, e.g., Midtown Community Court Video, CTR. FOR COURT
INNOVATION,
http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/midtown-community-court-video (last
visited Mar. 9, 2012); see also Robert Weisberg, Restorative Justice and the
Danger of "Community," 2003 UTAH L. REV. 343 (examining some of the potential
threats of the invocation of the term "community").





n180  It is beyond the scope of this Article to address the complicated
relationship between order maintenance, social welfare, and gentrification. My
more limited suggestion here is that, regardless of one's views on these
matters, there is considerable reason to doubt that order maintenance
specialized criminal law administration revitalizes local democratic criminal
law decision making, as these processes appear to be controlled by a small but
vocal and economically influential minority.





n181  See Gartner et al., supra note 53, at 293-94.





n182  JAMES AUSTIN ET AL., JFA INST., UNLOCKING AMERICA: WHY AND HOW TO REDUCE
AMERICA'S PRISON POPULATION 7 (2007).





n183  See, e.g., Gartner et al., supra note 53, at 313.





n184  See, e.g., Luna, supra note 28, at 719 ("As a rule, lawmakers have a
strong incentive to add new offenses and enhanced penalties, which offer
ready-made publicity stunts, but face no countervailing political pressure to
scale back the criminal justice system."); Paul H. Robinson & Michael T. Cahill,
Can a Model Penal Code Second Save the States from Themselves?, 1 OHIO ST. J.
CRIM. L. 169, 169-73 (2003) (critically examining the expansion of criminal
codes and the difficulty of retreating from this pattern through legislative
repeals); Stuntz, supra note 2, at 510, 515; see also WILLIAM J. STUNTZ, THE
COLLAPSE OF AMERICAN CRIMINAL JUSTICE (2011).





n185  See, e.g., Barbara E. Armacost, Organizational Culture and Police
Misconduct, 72 GEO. WASH. L. REV. 453, 519 (2004) (discussing how police
organizations, not unlike other bureaucracies, are inclined to assess success
quantitatively by arrest and citation numbers rather than by qualitative
assessments); Steven A. Drizin & Beth A. Colgan, Let the Cameras Roll: Mandatory
Videotaping of Interrogations Is the Solution to Illinois' Problem of False
Confessions, 32 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 337, 347-48 n.46 (2001) (noting that
conviction percentages influence election and promotion in state prosecutors'
offices).





n186  See Gartner et al., supra note 53, at 313-19.





n187  See, e.g., NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS, THE NCSC SENTENCING ATTITUDES
SURVEY: A REPORT ON THE FINDINGS 5 (2006) (reporting that over eighty percent of
persons surveyed in representative national telephone survey supported
alternative non-carceral sentencing "often" or "sometimes" for nonviolent
cases).





n188  See, e.g., ROSSMAN ET AL., supra note 12, at 1-10, 165, 169, 262-65
(examining, in multi-site study of drug courts, certain features of courts that
correspond to a decarceration model, including organization of specialized
courts as clearinghouses for social service resources and empirical monitoring).





n189  See, e.g., Interview by Carolyn Turgeon with Judge Matthew J. D'Emic,
Brooklyn Mental Health Court (June 2004), available at
http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/matthew-j-demic-brooklyn-mental-health-c
ourt?mode=889&url=research%2F889%2Finterview ("Initially we were set up to
handle exclusively non-violent felonies, but that changed and we do take some
violent felons . . . .").





n190  Although only approximately seventeen percent of the crimes for which
individuals are arrested are either violent or property crimes, roughly
seventy-one percent of people incarcerated in state prisons have been convicted
of violent or property crimes. Compare Uniform Crime Reports, Crime in the
United States 2010: Arrests, FED. BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/crime-in-the-u.s/2010/crime-in-the-u.s.-201
0/persons-arrested (last visited Mar. 20, 2012), with HEATHER C. WEST & WILLIAM
J. SABOL, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, BULLETIN: PRISONERS IN 2009, at 7 tbl.7
(2010).





n191  See ROBERT J. SAMPSON, GREAT AMERICAN CITY: CHICAGO AND THE ENDURING
NEIGHBORHOOD EFFECT 22 (2012) ("[N]eighborhoods are not merely settings in which
individuals act out the dramas produced by autonomous and preset scripts . . .
but are important determinants of the quantity and quality of human behavior in
their own right."); id. at 423 ("[E]ven the worst-off communities command human
assets and organizational potential that have not been fully harnessed. In fact
. . . disadvantaged communities sometimes have rather high levels of
other-regarding behavior and latent collective efficacy that are otherwise
suppressed by the cumulative disadvantages built up after repeated everyday
challenges."). In a study comparing the lives of former juvenile offenders
(discussed in further detail infra notes 192-97 and accompanying text),
sociologist Robert Sampson and criminologist John Laub found that:


     The majority of men we interviewed desisted from crime largely because
     they were able to capitalize on key structural and situational
     circumstances. They often selected these structural and situational
     circumstances (for example, they decided to get married, get that job,
     hang out with those friends), but those institutions and relations in
     turn influenced the men as well. . . . Men who desisted from crime
     were embedded in structured routines, socially bonded to . . . others
     . . . and were virtually and directly supervised and monitored. In
     other words, structures, situations, and persons offered nurturing and
     informal social control that facilitated the process of desistance
     from crime. . . .
     . . . .
     . . . Generally, the persistent offenders we interviewed experienced
     residential instability . . . job instability . . . and relatively
     long periods of incarceration. Except when in prison or jail, they
     were 'social nomads,' to use Foucault's term.


JOHN H. LAUB & ROBERT J. SAMPSON, SHARED BEGINNINGS, DIVERGENT LIVES: DELINQUENT
BOYS TO AGE 70, at 279-80 (2003) (citations omitted). A distinct theoretical
approach, which Professor Mary D. Fan has called "rehabilitation pragmatism,"
shares some significant features in common with a decarceration approach. The
difference between rehabilitation pragmatism and conventional rehabilitation is
that the rehabilitative intervention is not undertaken for the benefit of the
individual defendant but instead in the public interest to improve safety and
reduce costs, with reliance on empirical data in selecting defendants who are
more likely to succeed. See Fan, supra note 48, at 45-56; see also Jessica S.
Henry, The Second Chance Act of 2007, CRIM. L. BULL., Summer 2009, at art. 3
("Rehabilitation, with an eye to reentry, has been repackaged, not as way to
improve the individual offender for his or her own sake, but rather as a way to
improve public safety for all of society."); Joan Petersilia, California's
Correctional Paradox of Excess and Deprivation, 37 CRIME & JUST. 207, 212 (2008)
("Well-run, well-targeted educational and vocational programs, substance abuse
treatment, cognitive behavioral therapies, and reentry partnerships can reduce
recidivism by 5-30 percent.").





n192  See SHELDON GLUECK & ELEANOR T. GLUECK, UNRAVELING JUVENILE DELIQUENCY
(1950).





n193  See LAUB & SAMPSON, supra note 191.





n194  See id. at 113.





n195  Id. at 114-49.





n196  See id. at 188-90.





n197  It is possible, of course, that the law-abiding men were otherwise
disposed to obtain employment and to establish conventional institutional ties,
and that their social engagements were not the cause of their law-abiding turn.
Instead, their turning points might have been the product of some unidentified
additional factor--moral fortitude or personal perseverance. In other words, it
might be that some other variable besides social institutional involvement is
the critical differentiating characteristic between offenders and nonoffenders,
even if Sampson and Laub were unable to identify such a variable from the
Gluecks' data.





n198  See, e.g., Robert J. Sampson et al., Does Marriage Reduce Crime? A
Counterfactual Approach to Within-Individual Causal Effects, 44 CRIMINOLOGY 465,
465 (2006) (analyzing data that "support[] the inference that states of marriage
causally inhibit crime over the life course"); Robert J. Sampson et al.,
Neighborhoods and Violent Crime: A Multilevel Study of Collective Efficacy, 277
SCIENCE 918, 923 (1997) (finding that a "combined measure of informal social
control and cohesion and trust [was] a robust predictor of lower rates of
violence"); Robert J. Sampson & William Julius Wilson, Toward a Theory of Race,
Crime, and Urban Inequality, in CRIME AND INEQUALITY 37 (John Hagan & Ruth D.
Peterson eds., 1995).





n199  It is widely recognized that reasonable educational opportunities, access
to employment, and informal institutional social controls are associated with
improved public safety. See ARNOLD S. LINKSY & MURRAY A. STRAUS, SOCIAL STRESS
IN THE UNITED STATES: LINKS TO REGIONAL PATTERNS IN CRIME AND ILLNESS (1986).
While incarceration drains resources from these areas, decarceration would make
available resources for these social sectors. But funds devoted to
resource-intensive judicial monitoring, order-maintenance, and therapeutic court
processes are unavailable for educational programs, job training, healthcare,
affordable housing, or other services.





n200  See, e.g., David Friedrichs, Enron et al.: Paradigmatic White Collar Crime
Cases for the New Century, 12 CRITICAL CRIMINOLOGY 113, 119-21 (2004) (examining
the criminal organizational culture of Enron as well as those of other large
corporations, accounting firms, and law firms).





n201  See id. at 114-16.





n202  More generally, a decarceration model would aim to restrict incarceration
over time only to those cases where persons are guilty of crimes so appalling
the public's sense of justice requires it, such as for serial killers; to
matters where the convicted offender's prior criminal history is so extensive
and serious that the risk of release would be too grave to manage; and to those
who, once subject to diversionary sentencing, revealed themselves through
subsequent offending to pose an ongoing threat to others.





n203  See Key Facts at a Glance: State Prison Population by Offense Type,
1980-2006, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/corrtyp.cfm (last revised Mar. 9, 2012)
(reporting that state prison populations as of 2006 consisted of approximately
100,000 persons convicted of public order offenses, over 200,000 persons
convicted of drug offenses, and over 200,000 persons convicted of property
offenses); see also GLAZE, supra note 1, at 1 fig.1; Homicide Trends in the
U.S.: Homicide Victimization 1950-2005, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/homicide/tables/totalstab.cfm (last revised
Mar. 9, 2012); Key Facts at a Glance: Percent of Total Crime Reported to Police,
BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/tables/reportingtypetab.cfm (last
revised Mar. 9, 2012).





n204  See, e.g., Abram Chayes, The Role of the Judge in Public Law Litigation,
89 HARV. L. REV. 1281, 1284 (1976).





n205  See MALCOLM M. FEELEY, COURT REFORM ON TRIAL: WHY SIMPLE SOLUTIONS FAIL
209-10 (1983) (describing the "problem-oriented approach" as one that calls for
"making incremental and unexciting adjustments in the administration of existing
[programs]"). A decarceration model may be understood in this regard as adapting
an approach elaborated by Scandanavian criminologist and political theorist
Thomas Mathiesen, who developed a theory of the unique promise of unfinished
reforms. See THOMAS MATHIESEN, THE POLITICS OF ABOLITION 13-28 (1974). For
Mathiesen, the unfinished alternative emerges when we refuse "to remain silent
concerning that which we cannot [yet] talk about"; in our grasping attempts to
fashion a competing, contradictory, and in that sense new state of affairs, we
"express the unfinished." See id. at 16. A decarceration model adopts precisely
this approach, borrowing the now familiar institutional home of the specialized
criminal court to attempt to direct criminal law administration in different
directions, incrementally, experimentally, with sensitivity to empirical
feedback, and with the overall goal of facilitating a form of social order that
is less reliant on conventional criminal law frameworks and incarceration.





n206  See FEELEY, supra note 205. Dorf and Sabel also underscore that
experimentalist institutions are in an important sense always "unfinished." See
Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 860; see also Michael C. Dorf, Legal
Indeterminacy and Institutional Design, 78 N.Y.U. L. REV. 875, 940 (2003)
(referring to problem-oriented courts as "always a work in progress," and
stating that "the very conditions upon which problem-solving courts insist in
the actors they evaluate--openness and revisability in light of
experience--apply as well to problem-solving courts themselves"). But see Super,
supra note 24 and accompanying text.





n207  See Weisberg & Petersilia, supra note 5, at 126.





n208  Id.





n209  Bernard E. Harcourt, Reducing Mass Incarceration: Lessons from the
Deinstitutionalization of Mental Hospitals in the 1960s, 9 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L.
53, 87-88 (2011).





n210  See id. at 53-54, 87-88.





n211  Cf. Weisberg, supra note 179, at 363-69 (examining how
deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill in the 1970s was a catastrophe
motivated in part by widely shared but unexamined notions of how gravely
disabled people could be treated "in the community," with little thought devoted
to how such care would actually be administered).





n212  See, e.g., The New Asylums, PUB. BROAD. SERV.,
http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/asylums/view/ (last visited Mar.
9, 2012). Reports suggest that between one fifth to one half of prisoners in the
United States suffer from a serious mental illness. In 2005, a Bureau of Justice
Statistics study found that more than half of the inmate population had a mental
illness. See DORIS J. JAMES & LAUREN E. GLAZE, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
SPECIAL REPORT: MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS OF PRISON AND JAIL INMATES 1 (2006).
Other sources suggest that between sixteen to twenty percent of prisoners in the
United States are seriously mentally ill. See, e.g., Merrill Balassone, Jails,
Prisons Increasingly Taking Care of Mentally Ill, WASH. POST, Jan. 23, 2011,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/jails-prisons-increasingly-taking-care-of
-mentally-ill/2011/01/21/ABo3WRJ_story.html.





n213  See, e.g., Stephen Allen, Mental Health Treatment and the Criminal Justice
System, 4 J. HEALTH & BIOMED. L. 153, 161-65 (2008).





n214  Gary Fields, No Way Out: Trapped by Rules, the Mentally Ill Languish in
Prison, WALL ST. J., May 3, 2006,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB114662497280042311.html.





n215  131 S. Ct. 1910, 1924 (2011).





n216  Id. at 1950 app. A.





n217  Id.; see also id. at 1926 ("Mentally ill inmates languished for months, or
even years, without access to necessary care. They suffer from severe
hallucinations, and they decompensate into catatonic states." (alteration
omitted) (quoting Coleman v. Wilson, 912 F. Supp. 1282, 1316 (E.D. Cal. 1995)
(internal quotations marks omitted)).





n218  Talesh, supra note 80, at 119-24.





n219  According to Mental Health Court Judge Patrick Morris:


     A substantial number of these folks are so low functioning that you
     have to reduce your level of expectations. Many are illiterate, and
     when you say, "Go to school," you may mean simply "Go [to] the county
     library and be engaged in a literacy program." What you want to do is
     essentially find a way to occupy them constructively . . . . Re-engage
     them with their family if at all possible . . . so that they have a
     support group out there and a daily activity to go to that's
     meaningful and constructive. And it may be as simple as a volunteer
     position at a homeless shelter . . . but you look for a variety of
     ways to simply help them reconstruct a life that has some meaning to
     it, and that's about all you can do with some of these clients.


Id. at 122 n.191 (citing Interview with Judge Patrick Morris, Satellite
Broadcast of Mental Health Courts, Ctr. for Court Innovation (Nov. 14, 2002)).





n220  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 19.





n221  See, e.g., Matthew J. D'Emic, The Promise of Mental Health Courts:
Brooklyn Criminal Justice System Experiments with Treatment as an Alternative to
Prison, CRIM. JUST., Fall 2007, at 24, 26-27.





n222  See, e.g., Talesh, supra note 80, at 113-15 ("Mental health courts have a
unique, clinically-based risk management model that is routinely updated and
altered and relies on dynamic assessment.").





n223  See, e.g., Shoaf, supra note 128, at 991 ("Jail time is used only when
deemed absolutely necessary, and is usually for a short period of time such as
three, five, or ten days. If the client is eventually terminated from the
program, any jail time served is put towards the remaining time the client may
have on his or her original sentence."); Talesh, supra note 80, at 119 & n.174;
see also Mark A.R. Kleiman, The Outpatient Prison, AM. INT., Spring 2010, at 45
(reporting reduced incarceration and recidivism in Hawaii program that applied
short and certain carceral sanctions to high-risk group of drug addicted
ex-offenders).





n224  See, e.g., Richard D. Schneider, Mental Health Courts, 21 CURRENT OPINION
IN PSYCHIATRY 510, 510-11 (2008) (reporting range of positive outcomes
associated with mental health courts); see also Teresa W. Carns et al.,
Therapeutic Justice in Alaska's Courts, 19 ALASKA L. REV. 1, 28-29 (2002)
(reporting that evaluation of Alaska's mental health court reflected that
participants experienced reduced mental hospital admissions, reduced criminal
justice involvement, and improved housing placement). But see Christine M.
Sarteschi et al., Assessing the Effectiveness of Mental Health Courts: A
Quantitative Review, 39 J. CRIM. JUST. 12 (2011) (reporting findings that
suggest mental health courts are an effective intervention with respect to both
recidivism and clinical outcomes but noting findings are limited by
methodological weaknesses of existing studies); see also Richard J. Bonnie &
John Monahan, From Coercion to Contract: Reframing the Debate on Mandated
Community Treatment for People with Mental Disorders, 29 LAW & HUM. BEHAV. 485,
485 (2005) (analyzing the types and features of mandated community treatment
that are tied to "some form of 'leverage' in which deprivations such as jail or
hospitalization have been avoided, or rewards such as money or housing have been
obtained [by persons with mental disorders], contingent on treatment
adherence").





n225  See, e.g., Dahlia Lithwick, A Separate Peace: Specialized Courts for War
Veterans Work Wonders. But Why Stop at Veterans?, SLATE (Feb. 11, 2010, 1:33
PM),
http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/jurisprudence/2010/02/a_separate
_peace.html.





n226  See Marsha Weissman, Aspiring to the Impracticable: Alternatives to
Incarceration in the Era of Mass Incarceration, 33 N.Y.U. REV. L. & SOC. CHANGE
235, 239-40 (2009) (discussing the need to avoid the dangers of net widening in
implementing alternatives to incarceration programs).





n227  See, e.g., Daniel T. Eismann, Three Branches of Government Working
Together Effectively Have Made Idaho a Leader, THE ADVOCATE: OFFICIAL
PUBLICATION OF THE IDAHO STATE BAR, Sept. 2008, at 12, 12 ("In 2001, the
legislature enacted the Idaho Drug Court Act to provide a statutory framework
for implementing drug courts throughout the state.").





n228  AUSTIN ET AL., supra note 182, at 23. According to the U.S. Department of
Justice, parole violators returned to prison serve eighteen months on average
before being released again. Id. In Louisiana, technical violators serve an
average of twenty months before being re-released. See id.





n229  After the Harlem Parole Reentry Court learned judicial monitoring was
associated with increased reincarceration, it began to shift to something
approaching a decarceration model, seeking to reduce judicial surveillance and
revocation to jail for technical violations. See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 33
("In New York State a policy shift occurred in 2006, resulting in parole
officers making a concerted effort not to revoke parolees based on technical
violations."); see also id. at 30 ("[I]n the days ahead the Reentry Court might
consider exploring alternative responses to technical infractions, such as
increased use of intermediate sanctions in lieu of revocation.").





n230  See, e.g., Quinn, supra note 14, at 68 ("Women's problems frequently are
exacerbated rather than solved by a lack of financial and other support from
their incarcerated partners.").





n231  See, e.g., New Sex Offender Court Being Set Up in Pittsburgh, ASSOCIATED
PRESS, May 4, 2011,
http://www.buffalonews.com/wire-feeds/state/article412890.ece (describing the
goals and design of Pittsburgh's sex offender court).





n232  See, e.g., Amos Tversky & Daniel Kahneman, The Framing of Decisions and
the Psychology of Choice, 211 SCIENCE 453 (1981).





n233  See, e.g., DONALD A. SCHON & MARTIN REIN, FRAME REFLECTION: TOWARD THE
RESOLUTION OF INTRACTABLE POLICY CONTROVERSIES (1994).





n234  See, e.g., Robert D. Benford & David A. Snow, Framing Processes and Social
Movements: An Overview and Assessment, 26 ANN. REV. SOC. 611, 614 (2000).





n235  See, e.g., Amy Kapczynski, The Access to Knowledge Mobilization and the
New Politics of Intellectual Property, 117 YALE L.J. 804, 813-18 (2008).





n236  ERVING GOFFMAN, FRAME ANALYSIS: AN ESSAY ON THE ORGANIZATION OF EXPERIENCE
21 (1974).





n237  See, e.g., Benford & Snow, supra note 234.





n238  See, e.g., Tversky & Kahneman, supra note 232; see also GOFFMAN, supra
note 236.





n239  See RICHARD H. THALER & CASS R. SUNSTEIN, NUDGE: IMPROVING DECISIONS ABOUT
HEALTH, WEALTH, AND HAPPINESS 3-4 (2008).





n240  Another related, though distinct, way to characterize the process of
reframing is in terms of changing or ambiguating social meaning. See, e.g.,
Lawrence Lessig, The Regulation of Social Meaning, 62 U. CHI. L. REV. 943,
1039-42 (1995). According to Lessig:


     [S]ocial meanings . . . are used by individuals, or groups, to advance
     individual or collective ends; and . . . their force in part hangs
     upon their resting upon a certain uncontested, or taken-for-granted,
     background of thought or expectation . . . .
     . . . .
     . . . [Change in social meanings] proceeds by remaking that which is
     taken for granted, and which gives a particular text an unwanted
     meaning. It functions by switching on new associations. This breaking
     up, or remaking, requires effort; it follows from a practice.


See id. at 951, 962.





n241  See John Darley, Realism on Change in Moral Intuitions, 77 U. CHI. L. REV.
1643, 1649 (2010).





n242  Id.





n243  See, e.g., FRIEDMAN, supra note 111, at 10 (discussing the "teaching
function" of U.S. criminal law).





n244  See Mark Kelman, Interpretive Construction in the Substantive Criminal Law
, 33 STAN. L. REV. 591, 592-98 (1981).





n245  See id. at 593-96.





n246  See id.





n247  See, e.g., Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 832.





n248  See Goode, supra note 15.





n249  See id.





n250  See id.





n251  See id.





n252  See id.





n253  DENCKLA & BERMAN, supra note 16, at 17 (emphasis added).





n254  Lippman, supra note 77, at 1055.





n255  NOLAN, supra note 7, at 21 (quoting Judge Deveaux, who presides over an
Atlanta community court).





n256  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 196 ("There was general agreement
among the judges that taking ideas from problem-solving courts was not only
possible but desirable. They highlighted several things that they had learned
from their time in problem-solving courts--including the value of a
problem-solving mindset, direct interaction with defendants, monitoring
offenders' performance in treatment, and reaching out to social service
providers--that were appropriate for mainstream use . . . ."); see also JUDGING
IN A THERAPEUTIC KEY: THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE AND THE COURTS 87 (Bruce J.
Winick & David B. Wexler eds., 2003) ("[M]any former problem solving court
judges, upon being transferred back to courts of general jurisdiction, have
taken with them the tools and sensitivities they have acquired in those newer
courts.").





n257  See, e.g., D'Emic, supra note 221.





n258  Cf. Sharon Dolovich, Foreword: Incarceration American-Style, 3 HARV. L. &
POL'Y REV. 237, 258 (2009) (examining the link in popular imagination between
safety and incarceration).





n259  See ROSSMAN ET AL., supra note 12, at 1.





n260  See id. at 2-7.





n261  See Drug and Veterans' Treatment Courts: Seeking Cost-Effective Solutions
for Protecting Public Safety and Reducing Recidivism: Hearing Before the
Subcomm. on Crime and Terrorism of the S. Comm. on the Judiciary, 112th Cong.
(2011).





n262  See supra notes 70-71 and accompanying text.





n263  See supra notes 241-42 and accompanying text.





n264  See Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 865-68.





n265  See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 9 ("[T]he judge is responsible for openly
and publicly discussing program requirements, sanctions and their purposes.").





n266  See, e.g., D'Emic, supra note 221.





n267  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 87 ("Public defenders, who would
normally object to a client's revealing any extraneous personal information, are
apt to accept these conversations, knowing that encouraging words from an
authority figure like the judge can be extremely helpful to a client struggling
to achieve sobriety."); Tamar M. Meekins, Risky Business: Criminal Specialty
Courts and the Ethical Obligations of the Zealous Criminal Defender, 12 BERKELEY
J. CRIM. L. 75 (2007).





n268  See, e.g., Levine, supra note 74, at 1125 ("I think if you were to ask
most prosecutors what their goals are, they would say: 'My job is to put bad
guys away.' That goal is endorsed by our education and by our culture . . . . If
you were to change the goal slightly . . . that completely changes both the
methods that you use, the partners you choose, and every single aspect of what
you do." (quoting John Feinblatt & Derek Denckla, What Does It Mean To Be a Good
Lawyer?: Prosecutors, Defenders and Problem-Solving Courts, 84 JUDICATURE 206,
209 (2001) (quoting Elizabeth Glazer) (second alteration in original))).





n269  See, e.g., Bruce Western, Reentry: Reversing Mass Imprisonment, BOS. REV.,
July/Aug. 2008.





n270  See id. at 9-10.





n271  See, e.g., Interview by Carolyn Turgeon with Judge John Leventhal, supra
note 85 ("Then we got a grant for a resource coordinator, a position that has
now been institutionalized in the system.").





n272  See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 11. As a defendant in another specialized
criminal court reported: "It's not over when you get out of this [graduate the
program] . . . . If you needed help or something, or . . . lost your job and you
needed help doing a resume or you needed help finding employment, you can come
back here in this door here and they're going to do anything they can to help
you out." FAROLE & CISSNER, supra note 132, at 7 (alterations in original).





n273  See, e.g., Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 833 ("Unlike traditional courts
of specialized jurisdiction, drug courts are creating the framework for a
pervasive reform of the service providers with whom they collaborate in the very
act of coordinating the services provided.").





n274  Cf. Nicole Santa Cruz & Ashley Powers, Mental Health in Arizona: A Case
Study, L.A. TIMES, Jan. 19, 2011,
http://articles.latimes.com/2011/jan/19/nation/la-na-arizona-mental-health-20110
120 (explaining how services for mentally ill persons have been reduced by $ 2
billion across the country, eliminating 4,000 inpatient beds, and depriving
numerous patients of desired treatment and medication).





n275  See GREENE & MAUER, supra note 3 (examining the fiscal impacts of prison
downscaling).





n276  WOLF, A NEW WAY, supra note 68, at 6.





n277  See Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 839.





n278  WOLF, A NEW WAY, supra note 68, at 10 (quoting Nancy Fishman, Project
Director, Council of State Governments' Justice Center).





n279  Shoaf, supra note 128, at 992.





n280  See Robert Weisberg, Norms and Criminal Law, and the Norms of Criminal Law
Scholarship, 93 J. CRIM. L. & CRIMINOLOGY 467, 589-90 (2003) (citing MERCER L.
SULLIVAN, "GETTING PAID": YOUTH CRIME AND WORK IN THE INNER CITY 226-50 (1989)).





n281  For instance, the relationship between crime and unemployment is
complex--there is no simple crime-unemployment correlation:


     [K]ey is not the employment of the individual, but the density of
     consistent employment in the neighborhood. . . . [I]t is not a
     singular material factor, because it includes, for example, the
     efficacy of local job networks, which distinguish blue collar
     neighborhoods where education rates are not necessarily high. And of
     course distant macroeconomic forces probably affect crime rates,
     factors like the outsourcing of manufacturing . . . [as do] various
     local attitudes that include tolerance, [and] exhaustion or resistance
     in the face of criminal victimization . . . .


Id. (footnote omitted).





n282  See Gardner v. Schwarzenegger, 101 Cal. Rptr. 3d 229, 232 (Cal. Ct. App.
2009) (recounting the history of Proposition 36's passage).





n283  DRUG POLICY ALLIANCE, PROPOSITION 36: IMPROVING LIVES, DELIVERING RESULTS
19 (2006).





n284  See Gardner, 101 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 238-40 (enjoining enforcement of flash
incarceration measures enacted subsequent to the implementation of Proposition
36).





n285  WOLF, A NEW WAY, supra note 68, at 12. One interesting feature of the
systemic shifts instigated by specialized criminal courts in this respect is
that they leave intact criminal prohibitions on certain conduct but facilitate
remarkable lenience with regard to that conduct. In other words, on a
decarceration model, systemic change tending toward decriminalization need not
involve statutory repeals of criminal prohibitions. Instead, the existence of
diversionary courts and the cognitive and institutional shifts they work, adjust
enforcement priorities and make available social service treatment alternatives
while leaving intact the expressive symbolic prohibition in the criminal
statute. This may be a peculiar instance of the sort of acoustic separation that
Professor Meir Dan-Cohen theorized in his famous article on "Decision Rules and
Conduct Rules." See Meir Dan-Cohen, Decision Rules and Conduct Rules: On
Acoustic Separation in Criminal Law, 97 HARV. L. REV. 625 (1984).





n286  Jane M. Spinak, Romancing the Court, 46 FAM. CT. REV. 258, 258-59 (2008);
see also Levine, supra note 74, at 1131 ("By placing social problems inside the
criminal justice framework without changing the fundamental orientation of the
officials charged with addressing these problems, we ensure that the traditional
apparatus of the criminal justice system--conviction, punishment, and
surveillance--will be the only strategies considered by the problem-solvers.").





n287  See Spinak, supra note 286, at 258-60.





n288  See id. at 271.





n289  See id.





n290  Quinn, supra note 14, at 77-78; see also Mae C. Quinn, Revisiting Anna
Moscowitz Kross's Critique of New York City's Women's Court: The Continued
Problem of Solving the "Problem" of Prostitution with Specialized Criminal
Courts, 33 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 665 (2006); Mae C. Quinn, Response, Further
(Ms.)Understanding Legal Realism: Rescuing Judge Anna Moscowitz Kross, 88 TEX.
L. REV. See also 43 (2009).





n291  Quinn, supra note 14, at 79-81; see also MICHAEL WILLRICH, CITY OF COURTS:
SOCIALIZING JUSTICE IN PROGRESSIVE ERA CHICAGO (2003).





n292  Dorf, supra note 206, at 946.





n293  See, e.g., Louis Michael Seidman, Points of Intersection: Discontinuities
at the Junction of Criminal Law and the Regulatory State, 7 J. CONTEMP. LEGAL
ISSUES 97, 160 (1996) (arguing that criminal law is "defined by the practice of
blaming").





n294  See, e.g., Seidman, supra note 123, at 336 ("Our most important collective
institution for teaching through blaming is the criminal law.").





n295  Richard C. Boldt, The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law,
140 U. PA. L. REV. 2245, 2247 (1992).





n296  Id. at 2253; see also Hoffman, supra note 174, at 1477-78 ("[W]e are
judges, not social workers or psychiatrists. We administer the criminal law
because the criminal law is its own social end. It is not, or at least ought not
to be, a means to other social ends.").





n297  See SANFORD H. KADISH, BLAME AND PUNISHMENT: ESSAYS IN THE CRIMINAL LAW
49-53 (1987). Morally neutral criminal laws include regulatory offenses that do
not involve harmful wrongdoing to others as well as some offenses requiring only
vicarious liability or imposing strict liability. See Luna, supra note 28, at
722-23.





n298  NOLAN, supra note 10, at 52.





n299  See id. at 53-54.





n300  See Pettit & Western, supra note 35.





n301  Cf. Freed Inmate Tries To Break Back into Prison, ASSOCIATED PRESS, Sept.
6, 2001,
http://www.seattlepi.com/local/article/Freed-inmate-tries-to-break-back-into-pri
son-1065029.php; Kate Mather, Parolee Arrested Trying To Break Back into
Sacramento Prison, L.A. TIMES, Aug. 12, 2011,
http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/lanow/2011/08/parolee-break-back-into-prison.htm
l.





n302  See Binder, supra note 112, at 356-58 (exploring conditions under which
Kantian theory of punishment would permit justice to be traded for justice and
citing IMMANUEL KANT, METAPHYSICAL ELEMENTS OF JUSTICE 138 (John Ladd trans.,
Hackett Pub. Co. 2d ed. 1999) (1796)).





n303  To the extent that skeptics inclined to a deterrent theory of punishment
may worry that these courts would imperil public safety, there is considerable
evidence that "measures to reduce prison population may actually improve on
public safety because they address the problems that brought people to jail."
Brown v. Plata, 131 S. Ct. 1910, 1942 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n304  Dan M. Kahan & Martha C. Nussbaum, Two Conceptions of Emotion in Criminal
Law, 96 COLUM. L. REV. 269, 370-71 (1996).





n305  JACK KATZ, SEDUCTIONS OF CRIME: MORAL AND SENSUAL ATTRACTIONS IN DOING
EVIL 296 (1988).





n306  Because, even if criminal law scholar Paul H. Robinson and his
collaborators are right and there is a "core of agreement" about the relative
wrongness of the most egregious types of criminal offenses, this does not in the
least entail that we know what to do to best respond to the offenses in question
or what to do to address the associated social problems. See Paul H. Robinson &
Robert Kurzban, Concordance and Conflict in Intuitions of Justice, 91 MINN. L.
REV. 1829 (2007); see also Donald Braman, Dan M. Kahan & David A. Hoffman, A
Core of Agreement, 77 U. CHI. L. REV. 1655 (2010).





n307  See, e.g., Lanni, supra note 68, at 383-87.





n308  See, e.g., NAT'L ASS'N OF CRIMINAL DEF. LAWYERS, supra note 14, at 10-13.





n309  Lanni, supra note 68, at 385; see also BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7,
at 86 ("Defenders, who are accustomed to battling prosecutors to get the best
deal for their clients, are often asked to work alongside them as part of a
collaborative team. These cooperative efforts often start on the ground floor
with traditional adversaries working together to design guidelines, eligibility
criteria, and sanctioning schemes. When a drug-court judge hands down a
three-day jail sentence because an addict has failed to attend his treatment
program, defenders are often surprisingly silent, because they--and their
clients--have already accepted the idea of intermediate jail sanctions as part
of the treatment sentence."). Another critical function of criminal courts is to
police the police, and if specialized criminal courts require an expeditious
guilty plea, they make unavailable suppression motions or other motions practice
that may incentivize good police behavior. See Steven Zeidman, Policing the
Police: The Role of the Courts and the Prosecution, 32 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 315
(2005).





n310  Lanni, supra note 68, at 385.





n311  . BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 85.





n312  Nevertheless, to the extent a proceduralist objection focuses on reduced
adversarialism within specialized criminal courts, it is worth bearing in mind
that a pure form of adversarial criminal law administration is incorrectly
assumed to obtain in conventional U.S. criminal courts and, insofar as
adversarial procedures are present, these procedures' desirability relative to
various alternatives remains uncertain. See, e.g., Abraham S. Goldstein,
Reflections on Two Models: Inquisitorial Themes in American Criminal Procedure,
26 STAN. L. REV. 1009, 1019 (1974) ("European criminal procedures are no more
purely inquisitorial than ours are purely [adversarial]."); see also MARVIN E.
FRANKEL, PARTISAN JUSTICE (1980) (critically analyzing adversarial criminal
justice administration and proposing modifications to address significant
problems); LLOYD L. WEINREB, DENIAL OF JUSTICE: CRIMINAL PROCESS IN THE UNITED
STATES (1977) (critiquing U.S. adversarial criminal processes and examining
preferable alternatives); Mirjan Dama[#x0161]ka, Evidentiary Barriers to
Conviction and Two Models of Criminal Procedure: A Comparative Study, 121 U. PA.
L. REV. 506 (1973) (critically examining adversarial criminal procedures
relative to continental alternatives); John H. Langbein & Lloyd L. Weinreb,
Continental Criminal Procedure: "Myth" and Reality, 87 YALE L.J. 1549 (1978)
(analyzing preferable features of inquisitorial as compared to adversarial
criminal procedure models).





n313  See, e.g., State v. Rogers, 170 P.3d 881, 886 (Idaho 2007) (holding that
drug-court-program participant was entitled to due process protections during
proceedings to terminate his participation in the program and incarcerate him).





n314  This solution is not as readily available on a therapeutic jurisprudence
or judicial monitoring model because the theoretical bases of those models turn
on the continuing relationship between the defendant/participant and the judge,
whether that continued relationship emphasizes a presumed therapeutic connection
or deterrent influence. A more general proceduralist concern relates to the
potential role shift for the judge in specialized criminal courts, but on a
decarceration model that role shift is less pronounced than on a therapeutic
jurisprudence or judicial monitoring model.





n315  See ROSSMAN ET AL., supra note 12, at 224.





n316  See, e.g., 730 ILL. COMP. STAT. ANN. 166/35(a)(4) (LexisNexis 2007 & Supp.
2011); see also State v. Bellville, No. 5-476/04-1634, 2005 Iowa App. LEXIS 963,
at *2-7 (Iowa Ct. App. Aug. 31, 2005) (upholding sentence of consecutive jail
terms following revocation of drug court program based on prior plea agreement).





n317  See, e.g., GA. CODE ANN. § 16-13-2(a) (2011). An alternative approach, of
which there is a pilot ongoing in Seattle, takes specialized courts out of the
picture entirely and relies purely on police to divert drug-involved offenders
to treatment providers prior to any criminal charge. See THE DEFENDER
ASSOCIATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTED DIVERSION (LEAD) EVALUATION PANEL (2011)
(on file with author).





n318  See Brady v. United States, 397 U.S. 742, 748 (1970) ("[A] guilty plea is
a grave and solemn act to be accepted only with care and discernment . . . .").





n319  Specialized criminal courts leave the parallel conventional process
undisturbed, with the full panoply of procedural protections in principle
available to defendants there.





n320  See FAROLE & CISSNER, supra note 132, at 5-7 (exploring drug court
participants' reasons for and aspirations in opting into drug court).





n321  A decarceration model takes empiricism and experimentalism seriously,
seeking to engage in a process of internal reform and improvement. This process
is more likely to meaningfully occur on a decarceration model than on a
therapeutic jurisprudence, judicial monitoring, or order maintenance model
because there is not otherwise any commitment to a particular therapeutic,
neo-rehabilitative, deterrence-based, or order maintenance ideology. See Dorf &
Sabel, supra note 13, at 882-83. Dorf and Sabel overestimate the rigors of
self-monitoring and self-reporting in drug courts and specialized criminal
courts generally and neglect the strong incentives for entities to set limited
but readily achievable goals so as to be able to claim success, regardless of
actual outcomes. Further, self-monitoring and self-reporting may be less useful
where the ultimate goal or measure at stake is in dispute, as I have suggested
it often is in specialized criminal courts. But see id. A decarceration model is
primarily concerned with reducing incarceration consistent with maintaining
public safety and so circumvents some of these complications.





n322  See, e.g., Laura Sullivan, Inmates Who Can't Make Bail Face Stark Options,
NAT'L PUB. RADIO (Jan. 22, 2010),
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=122725819&ft=1&3=3
(reporting that more than 500,000 inmates in the United States each year face a
choice between pleading guilty for crimes for which they claim innocence or
remaining incarcerated until a trial date weeks or months later to contest
charges).





n323  Roscoe Pound famously opposed court specialization on similar grounds
because it would tend to result in duplication of function, waste, and
inefficiency. See, e.g., R. Stanley Lowe, Unified Courts in America: The Legacy
of Roscoe Pound, 56 JUDICATURE 316 (1973).





n324  Although specialization is a feature of modern society, courts and judges
have generally constituted an exception to this trend. See BAUM, supra note 6,
at xi-xii. There are, however, numerous specialized courts outside the criminal
context, such as the Tax Court and the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.





n325  All this is not to say that a decarceration approach will necessarily
reduce costs. To meaningfully address the complex social problems driving
overincarceration will be resource-intensive, and specialized courts often rely
on an array of "services that simply don't exist in most criminal courts."
BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 64.





n326  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 23. As Edward P. Mulvey,
delivering the Presidential Address at an American Psychological Association
convention explained: "[T]he courts are being established for groups of
individuals who are seen as 'deserving' of better processing and more
individualized attention from the justice system." Id. (quoting Edward P.
Mulvey, Presidential Address to the American Psychology-Law Society, Division 41
of the American Psychological Association, Mar. 20, 2010).





n327  See Robert V. Wolf, Race, Bias, and Problem-Solving Courts, 21 NAT'L BLACK
L.J. 27, 28-30 (2009).





n328  See Harcourt, supra note 209, at 4, 29-31.





n329  Steadman et al., supra note 80, at 215.





n330  See Justin Driver, Rethinking the Interest-Convergence Thesis, 105 NW. U.
L. REV. 149 (2011) (critically discussing the interest-convergence thesis, which
holds that disadvantaged groups receive favorable judicial treatment to the
extent their interests coincide with the interests of majority group elites).





n331  Chrysanthi S. Leon, Should Courts Solve Problems? Connecting Theory and
Practice, CRIM. L. BULL., Winter 2007, at art. 2.





n332  See, e.g., ALEXANDER, supra note 35.





n333  Of course, it is possible that judges sitting in the specialized court
would adapt a different judicial perspective than when sitting in the
conventional court.





n334  See Bratton Blom et al., supra note 13, at 42 ("All the criticisms of
problem-solving courts--that they violate due process rights, that they fail to
rehabilitate, or that they represent a form of undemocratic reform--apply to the
reality of the court system today.").





n335  See generally MALCOLM M. FEELEY, THE PROCESS IS THE PUNISHMENT: HANDLING
CASES IN A LOWER CRIMINAL COURT (1979).





n336  See id. at 3-4.





n337  ROSCOE POUND, CRIMINAL JUSTICE IN AMERICA 190-91 (Da Capo Press 1972)
(1930).





n338  STEVE BOGIRA, COURTROOM 302: A YEAR BEHIND THE SCENES IN AN AMERICAN
CRIMINAL COURTHOUSE 3, 21-22 (2005).


                               18 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 26, 2012
                                 First Edition

Crime predicting may come to UK;
POLICE

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 123 words


A pioneering technique to predict crime before it happens could be imported from
the United States, a top British police chief said yesterday.

i reported last week that pilots of the scheme - under which officers are
dispatched to crime hotspots identified by computer - have had early success in
California. The method of "predictive policing" was outlined at a seminar in
London by the US police chief, Capt Sean Malinowski, who has introduced it in a
Los Angeles suburb. Chief Constable Nick Gargan, the chief executive of the
National Policing Improvement Agency, gave a warm welcome to the "exciting
initiative".

He said British officers were monitoring its effectiveness and could deploy it
alongside other methods used by the police.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
