
                               1 of 29 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2013 The University of Chicago
                               Crime and Justice

                                      2013

                               Crime and Justice

                              42 Crime & Just. 377

LENGTH: 10473 words

ARTICLE: The Rise of Evidence-Based Policing: Targeting, Testing, and Tracking

NAME: Lawrence W. Sherman

BIO: Lawrence W. Sherman is Wolfson Professor of Criminology at Cambridge
University, a director of the College of Policing (UK), Distinguished University
Professor at the University of Maryland, and director of the Cambridge Police
Executive Programme. He is grateful for comments on earlier drafts by Heather
Strang, Peter Neyroud, Daniel Nagin, Stephen Mastrofski, John Eck, Alex Piquero,
David Weisburd, Lorraine Mazerolle, Cynthia Lum, and Michael Tonry.

HIGHLIGHT: ABSTRACT

Evidence-based policing is a method of making decisions about "what works" in
policing: which practices and strategies accomplish police missions most
cost-effectively. In contrast to basing decisions on theory, assumptions,
tradition, or convention, an evidence-based approach continuously tests
hypotheses with empirical research findings. While research on all aspects of
policing grew substantially in the late twentieth century, the application of
research to police practice intensified in the early twenty-first century,
especially for three tasks that make up the "triple-T" strategy of policing:
targeting, testing, and tracking. Evidence-based targeting requires systematic
ranking and comparison of levels of harm associated with various places, times,
people, and situations that policing can lawfully address. Evidence-based
testing helps assure that police neither increase crime nor waste money.
Tracking whether police are doing what police leaders decide should be done may
grow most rapidly in coming years by the use of GPS records of where police go
and body-worn video records of what happens in encounters with citizens.

TEXT:
 [*377]  Can research help improve democratic policing? For over four decades,
numerous colleagues and I have struggled to answer that question. When we began,
policing was done very differently from how it is  [*378]  done now. In the
years to come, it will be done even more differently. Yet the trajectory of
change is likely to remain consistent: from less research evidence to more and
from lesser to greater use of the evidence available. The 50 years covered in
this volume bear witness to the rise of evidence-based policing in both the
quantity of evidence and its influence on police practices. This essay reports
on my ongoing participant-observation study of these changes, for which I have
tried to be a primary instigator.

   Policing in 1975 was largely delivered in a one-size-fits-all strategy,
sometimes described as the "three Rs": random patrol, rapid response, and
reactive investigations (Berkow 2011). After World War II, random patrols in
police cars were promoted on the theory that police "omnipresence" would deter
crime (Wilson 1950). In the 1960s, the advent of three-digit emergency phone
numbers turned random patrol into an airport-style "holding pattern" for rapid
response, also based on a theory of deterrence, but producing a new theory of
organizational action: Albert J. Reiss's (1971) distinction between reactive and
proactive actions. What police did when they reacted to a citizen call was not
subject to much police agency direction or analysis. The main organizational
requirement was to arrive, do something, and leave as quickly as possible. As
Reiss reported, his 1966 Chicago study found patrol officers spending 14 percent
of their time "reactively" answering such calls and investigating crime, about 1
percent of their time "proactively" stopping people at their own initiative, and
85 percent of their time in unstructured random patrolling. Reactive
investigations, when required, were taken over by detectives, who in theory
investigated all reported crimes but in practice closed most cases as
unsolvable. Cases that were solved relied primarily on the evidence presented to
them by crime victims and the patrol officers who arrived first on the scene
(Greenwood and Petersilia 1975).

   By 1975, the three Rs had become the standard model of urban policing (Skogan
and Frdyl 2004, p. 223) across the United States as well as in the United
Kingdom and other predominantly Anglo-Celtic cultures (e.g., Canada, Australia,
New Zealand). There was almost no targeting of patterns or predictions of crime
or disorder, no testing of what worked best to prevent or solve crimes and
problems, or much tracking and managing of what police were doing, where, when,
and how, in relation to any specific objectives. Most police agencies lacked
computers. The few computers in use in 1975 were mainframes designed  [*379]
for dispatching police cars, not analyzing crime data. Police leaders rarely
discussed crime at all unless a particularly gruesome crime received substantial
publicity.

   By 2012, the three Rs were changing into what I describe in this essay as the
"triple-T" of targeting, testing, and tracking. While the standard model is far
from gone, its resources are increasingly guided by statistical evidence. In the
emerging triple-T strategy, both patrol and detective managers had moved toward
far greater proactive management of police resources. Although these changes are
far more evident in some police agencies than in others, Anglo-Celtic policing
is increasingly targeting scarce resources on evidence of large, predictable,
and harmful statistical patterns rather than on isolated cases (Spelman and Eck
1989). Compared to 1975, these focused police strategies are far more elaborate
and differentiated, choosing from a wider range of priorities and objectives on
the basis of extensive data analysis. Police methods have also become far more
subject to testing, with evaluation and debate over "what works," the core idea
of evidence-based policing (Sherman 1984, 1998). Yet the most evident use of new
statistical evidence is the growth of tracking and managing what police were or
were not doing in relation to the dynamic patterns of crime and public safety
problems.

   Examples of the growth of evidence-based policing abound. They include the US
Supreme Court's citation of research on tests of restrictions on police
shootings (Fyfe 1980, 1982; Sherman 1983), Tennessee v. Garner (471 U.S. 1
[1985]), a decision that fostered a major reduction in police killings of
citizens in the United States (Tennenbaum 1994). Overall reductions in homicide
have been associated with an increased targeting of US police work toward
micro-level crime "hot spots" (Weisburd and Lum 2005; Police Executive Research
Forum 2008; Braga and Weisburd 2010), where research showed that crime is
heavily concentrated (Sherman, Gartin, and Buerger 1989). By 2012,
evidence-based targeting for problem-oriented policing (POP) has, since
Goldstein (1979) first proposed it, gradually become respected as real police
work, not "social work," supported in some agencies with new case management
systems. Crime analysts are more likely to identify repeat crime places,
victims, suspects, situations, and other patterns to support targeting decisions
for patrol, POP, and detectives. Even reactive detective work is more proactive,
police-initiated, in gathering new evidence at crime scenes, using scientific
methods  [*380]  to identify suspects and prove cases (Roman et al. 2009). What
patrol officers do when responding to crime scenes has become more likely to be
a method that has been tested. Where officers are at any moment is more likely
to be tracked by global positioning satellite (GPS) systems generating weekly
management analysis reports.

   The best test of evidence-based policing is whether it has improved public
safety and police legitimacy. There is certainly a correlation over time between
the rise of evidence and a decline in serious crime, in both the United States
and the United Kingdom. Proof that serious crime dropped because of
evidence-based policing, however, is more elusive. There is some micro-level
analysis of the New York City crime drop that offers a greater basis for causal
inference than national trends (Zimring 2012), but it is impossible to rule out
other plausible causes that also match the timing of the crime drop. There is
also a danger that a sharper focus on crime can undermine police legitimacy,
especially since proactive policing is structurally less legitimate than
reactive policing with a personal victim's endorsement (Reiss 1971, p. 11). Yet
there is no evidence that the rise of evidence in policing has caused reductions
in police legitimacy. Indeed, more data about legitimacy have been incorporated
into police management as part of evidence-based tracking than ever before.
Overall, the vast scale of the rise of evidence in policing leaves it without a
fair comparison group, just as it does in medicine (Sagan 1987), leaving
causation unknowable. Still, the macro trends in reduced mortality suggest that
we should celebrate the rise of evidence in both medicine and policing.

   The changes from 1975 to 2012 raise the further question of what Anglo-Celtic
policing will look like by 2025. The answers cannot be predicted just by
extrapolating the trends of four decades, or even--ideally--by a causal model
for prediction (Silver 2012). But by explaining why policing changed as it did
from 1975 to 2012, a forecast using the same causal model can identify a range
of possible scenarios for policing in 2025. Chief among these will be the
possible global influence of the 2012 creation of the first professional body
ever charged by a national government with recommending police practices on the
basis of continuous review of new research evidence on what works: the United
Kingdom's College of Policing (http://www.college.police.uk). This body has
tremendous potential to follow the pathway to innovation Johnson (2010)
associates with such major advances as the printing press, which was inspired by
the wine press: a lateral-thinking  [*381]  style of adaptation of an idea used
in one setting (such as evidence-based medicine) to another (such as
evidence-based policing).

   The Rise of Evidence. The causal model this essay suggests for these changes
is a dynamic system that links external demands on police (to cut crime, cut
costs, or build legitimacy) to research evidence on how to meet those demands,
supported by the increasing availability of innovative technologies. While
external factors drive the availability of both research evidence and
technology, how policing responds depends on a fourth factor: the governmentally
generated human capital of education and police professionalism. The role of
government policies is crucial in setting salaries and recruitment standards
that shape the quality of police skills and creativity in general and of police
leaders in particular. Those human resources are so influential that the entire
causal model can reasonably be said to call for evidence-based professionalism.

   Inside this abstract causal model are many human beings struggling hard for
change: influential leaders of policing, research, and efforts to combine the
two. These include UK Home Secretary R. A. Butler creating a research unit in
1958; future FBI Director Clarence Kelly supporting the Kansas City Patrol
Experiment in 1971 (Kelling et al. 1974); Minneapolis Police Chief Anthony V.
Bouza supporting the first random assignment of arrest in 1981 (Sherman and Berk
1984); criminologist David Weisburd and his colleagues (Weisburd et al. 2004,
2006; Weisburd, Groff, and Yang 2012) analyzing criminal careers of places in
Seattle and Jersey City; New York Police Department (NYPD) Commissioner William
Bratton creating COMPSTAT in the 1990s; Assistant US Attorney General Laurie
Robinson making evidence from police testing readily accessible at
http://www.crimesolutions.gov in 2010; and UK Chief Constable Peter Neyroud's
proposal for the evidence-based College of Policing in 2011. What these leaders
generally shared--with, most notably, NYPD Commissioner and US Police Foundation
President Patrick V. Murphy--was a loosely articulated but deeply held belief
that greater use of research could help transform policing into a more
legitimate and respected profession.

   A profession is widely defined as a public-interest occupation that restricts
entry to those who have mastered knowledge and skills needed to provide a
particular set of complex services. In the past century, the level of knowledge
deemed necessary for a profession has become  [*382]  linked to requirements for
university-based education. It is only a century, for example, since the radical
proposal to force doctors to attend university was presented to the United
Kingdom's Haldane Commission (Sherman 2011b). Similarly, proposals in repeated
US commission reports in the 1960s and 1970s recommended that a university
degree be a requirement for appointment as a police officer (Sherman and
National Advisory Commission on Higher Education for Police Officers 1978). That
idea remains controversial and widely unacceptable on both sides of the
Atlantic. By conventional definition, then, policing has yet to become a
profession.

   Yet by the same definition, policing has made great strides toward
professionalism. The past 40 years have seen a huge increase in the educational
levels of police leaders. Almost half of English chief constables in 2010 had
been educated at the Cambridge University Police Executive Program, and three
decades of major city chiefs in the United States attended the nondegree Harvard
Police Executive Sessions. The role of universities in disseminating police
research has been a remarkably successful top-down change process.

   Rising levels of police chief education have also fostered more support for
research. First led by external scholars, and now increasingly led by police
leaders in partnership with universities, the production of new research
evidence has helped police respond to external demands for improvement. At
minimum, research is perceived to be helpful with such demands. That is
especially true when there is internal or external controversy about which
police methods are best and whether new technologies are cost-effective.

   Even a radical change in structures of police accountability can enhance the
value of police research evidence. The 2012 devolution of control over chief
constables in England and Wales to locally elected "police and crime
commissioners," for example, created a potential for disputes between elected
officials and professional police leaders. One possible solution is the
professional College of Policing setting independent, evidence-based standards
of police practice. Whether this institution, or its cognates in other
countries, can create a global demand for more production and use of evidence is
a crucial question for the next decade.

   Targeting, Testing, and Tracking. Both the demand for, and uses of, research
evidence have become clustered around three strategic principles:


      [*383]  1. Police should conduct and apply good research to target
     scarce resources on predictable concentrations of harm from crime and
     disorder.
     2. Once police choose their high-priority targets, they should review
     or conduct tests of police methods to help choose what works best to
     reduce harm.
     3. Once police agencies use research to target their tested practices,
     they should generate and use internal evidence to track the daily
     delivery and effects of those practices, including public perceptions
     of police legitimacy.

   The growing adoption of those three principles has given shape to what is
increasingly called evidence-based policing (EBP). Broadly defined as the use of
best research evidence on "what works" as a guide to police decisions (Sherman
1998), the EBP framework was meant to be only a method of making decisions
rather than a substantive strategy for police operations. In the 15 years from
1997 to 2012, however, police have shaped their own emergent definition of EBP
as a substantive strategy for managing large police agencies on the basis of
these three principles.

   The rise of the triple-T strategy did not emerge from any theoretical plan to
use evidence in such a coherent strategy. The clustering of evidence around
three key strategic tasks was driven as much by innovative police leadership as
by police scholarship. Its success resulted from the surprisingly rational
convergence of police reform with a flood of new research in criminology.

   This essay has four sections. Section I discusses the key social trends,
institutions, and people who helped shape research aiming to improve policing.
The triple-T strategy emerged from the users of that evidence. Section II offers
major examples of how much the evidence has grown since 1975 and how widely
police have applied that knowledge. These examples address all three triple-T
principles, including instances in which evidence and practice have sharply
diverged. They are selected to highlight the wide range of what has already been
accomplished, even as so much still remains to be done.

   Section III analyzes conceptual issues and confusion that hold back progress
in targeting, testing, and tracking. The issues are arguably little different
from those arising in the development of evidence-based practices in
professional baseball, election campaigns, or marketing. They reflect the
current struggle between "system I" and "system II"  [*384]  thinking (Kahneman
2011) in a wide range of endeavors, all of which face the same challenge
policing faces--to get much better at what they do in the next decade. In the
conclusion I suggest 10 things institutions can do to institutionalize research
evidence in ways that foster more fairness and effectiveness in democratic
policing.

   These are the most important points I make in this essay:


     1. The evidence base for police decisions has grown enormously since
     1975.
     2. Use of that evidence lags behind the knowledge, but use has also
     grown.
     3. Most police practices, despite their enormous cost, are still
     untested.
     4. Targeting and testing require highly reliable measures of crime and
     harm.
     5. Crime rates and counts are by themselves misleading; a crime harm
     index offers far better evidence to guide police decisions.
     6. Police in 2012 used evidence on targeting much more widely than
     evidence from testing.
     7. Research on tracking police outputs remains largely descriptive and
     incomplete, with great room for using new technologies to improve the
     quality of evidence.
     8. More use of evidence can increase police legitimacy, both internal
     and external.
     9. The State Boards of Police Officer Standards and Training in the
     United States and the College of Policing in the United Kingdom will
     be key institutions in making policing more effective, along with the
     practitioner-led Society for Evidence-Based Policing.

   I. The Rise of Evidence for Police Decision Making

   The rise of evidence in policing is mostly an Anglo-American story, with
events on each side of the Atlantic influencing the other. Both sides began with
parallel social trends in the 1960s that challenged police legitimacy. Both the
United Kingdom and the United States faced rising crime rates and increasing
racial tensions. Authoritative commissions in both set out ambitious agendas for
"upgrading" the police, as one think tank put it (Saunders 1970). Both saw
policing  [*385]  become a matter of national politics in unprecedented ways.
The different responses of police in each country helped build a special
intellectual relationship that was conceptually far deeper than the military
collaboration of World War II. One continuing theme on both sides of the
Atlantic has been that "they do policing better" on the other side.

A. Setting the Stage

   By the early 1970s, Anglo-American policing faced a kind of Christmas tree of
ideas for police reform, each idea an ornament unconnected to the others. One
idea was that police needed more research, including experiments and
demonstration projects, with criminologists and other social scientists becoming
part of the police agency workforce focusing on crime prevention (President's
Commission 1967, pp. 25-27). There was no consensus about the questions research
should answer. There was no particular vision of a new policing strategy to
which research could contribute. Yet belief in innovation and evaluation as a
strategy in itself became a major force in police reform (Reiss 1992).

   That belief led to public and charitable investments in new institutions for
police research. The growing role of the British Home Office in police research
helped inspire the creation of a similar function in the US Department of
Justice. Yet neither government agency's efforts had much impact until after the
Ford Foundation in 1970 funded the Police Foundation in Washington to "foster
innovation and improvement in American policing." The bold experiments the
foundation conducted led government funders to test policing more deeply. In
less than a decade, the Police Foundation's and government-supported research
discredited the intellectual basis for the three-Rs strategy of random patrol,
rapid response, and reactive investigations.

   What replaced that strategy was not a coherent new theory. Only in retrospect
can we use the triple-T framework of targeting, testing, and tracking to make
sense of what emerged. The multicentered work of examining current practices,
designing innovations, and evaluating new programs produced something that
scholars now call "emergence," the confluence of properties arising from a
combination of elements not found in any one of the elements (Johnson 2001). The
essential new property is the capacity to lead police organizations with dynamic
evidence rather than static doctrine. This property arose initially from the
destruction of the prevailing three-Rs model. That, in turn, opened  [*386]  the
door to considering the implications of basic research provided by an earlier
generation of thinkers.

   The most important basic research had documented the existence of police
discretion to choose different strategies rather than being handcuffed by the
three Rs. Most notably, Reiss's (1971) conception of police work as divided
between proactive and reactive discretion stimulated much creative thinking. At
the same time, Banton's (1964) research in Britain and Wilson's (1968) research
in the United States showed how the discretionary choices of police
organizations differ on the basis of their political and cultural environments,
despite their sharing a common legal system. These insights expanded the concept
of police discretion from the level of case-by-case to agency-by-agency decision
making and helped to set the stage for the emergence of triple-T. But that new,
evidence-based strategy took almost four decades to emerge from the accumulation
of new research evidence. What happened was a process of "prosumption" (Tapscott
and Williams 2006) in which the producers of elements of the triple-T strategy
were simultaneously its consumers.

B. Testing

   The three-Rs strategy was intellectually discredited after three major
efforts were made to assess the effects of key elements. These studies did not
adequately support the conclusions attributed to them. They did not show that
random patrol had no effect on crime, that rapid police response had no
deterrent effect, or that detectives made no contribution to detection,
prosecution, and general deterrence of crime. Regardless of what the research
evidence really did show, those conclusions became widely accepted by police
leaders and police scholars, then and now.

   1. Random Patrol. The Police Foundation's Kansas City Preventive Patrol
Experiment (Kelling et al. 1974) launched the rise of evidence-based policing.
The first attempt to undertake a scientifically controlled test of the effects
of patrol staffing levels, it proved that bold experiments were possible in
policing. The experimental design of withdrawing patrols from five patrol beats
(and doubling it in five others) was stunning and unprecedented. That the "sky
did not fall" made the world safe for further bold experiments. The reported
conclusion--that frequency of police patrols did not affect crime--opened many
minds to think more critically about police strategy. The experiment's  [*387]
leadership by a police chief who was subsequently appointed FBI director also
suggested that research, even with negative results, could be good for police
career advancement.

   It is unfortunate that the Kansas City experiment did not actually support
its conclusion. The limitations of the experiment's research design have been
extensively reviewed elsewhere (Sherman 1986, 1992b; Sherman and Weisburd 1995).
The main problem is that the actual frequency of patrols was unmeasured and may
well have been identical in all beats because of reactive responses to calls
(Larson 1976). Moreover, there were large differences across treatment groups in
certain crime rates but too few beats to call the differences "statistically
significant." But the most important critique has never been published before:
that random patrol was not compared to any other pattern of patrol, so there was
no evidence showing that random patrol did not "work" relative to other patterns
of patrol, such as concentration on crime hot spots. Policing still needs a
strong randomized trial comparing random patrol to hot spots patrol.

   Nonetheless, the conclusion that random patrol did not work was widely
accepted. Tens of thousands of police officers lost their jobs in the aftermath
of the study, which came coincidentally just before a financial crisis in many
US cities. None of that stopped the widespread use of random patrol. But it did
help drive a research agenda seeking alternative police strategies.

   2. Rapid Response. The theory that marginally faster response times would
catch and deter more criminals was effectively falsified by a National Institute
of Justice-funded research project led by staff of the Kansas City Police
Department (1977). The study reported that it was necessary to divide crimes
into victim-offender "involvement" crimes (e.g., robbery, assault, rape) and
after-the-crime "discovery" crimes (e.g., burglary, car theft). It then focused
response time analysis on involvement crimes, with "response time" including
three time periods: crime occurrence to calling the police ("reporting time"),
police receipt of call to dispatch ("dispatch time"), and "travel time" of
police from receipt of dispatch to arrival at the scene. Using systematic
observation methods and interviews of victims, the Kansas City study found that
there was no correlation between response-related arrest probability and
reporting time once the reporting time exceeded 9 minutes. The average reporting
time for involvement crimes was 41 minutes (Kansas City Police Department 1977,
vol. 2, pp. 23, 39). Replications of the  [*388]  reporting time segment in
other US cities found similar results (Spelman and Brown 1981).

   What the research did not show is that a capacity for rapid response had no
effect on crime. The Kansas City study was not an experiment comparing police
agencies or areas with very rapid responses to similar agencies or areas with
slower responses, or even no response. Much remains to be learned about the
effect of any rapid response capacity compared to none, the latter being the
state of police services in much of the world, from India to parts of rural
America.

   What mattered historically was the growing recognition that there were better
things police could do with their time than just wait for calls. While the
research did not prove that point, it helped open the minds of police leaders
and scholars about what those other things might be.

   3. Reactive Investigations. The view that detectives "solve" crimes that are
reported to them was strongly rejected by another National Institute of Justice
(NIJ) project, this one conducted by the RAND Corporation (Greenwood and
Petersilia 1975). This report examined the value detectives add to the
information that was in the record at the end of a preliminary investigation by
the first responders to a crime, usually uniformed patrol officers. The
conclusion was that detectives rarely uncovered new evidence that made a
difference in solving the crime--contrary to a century of detective fiction.

   Here again, the evidence is thin in relation to the conclusion. An experiment
comparing cases prosecuted without detective work to cases prosecuted after
detective work would be a strong test of the "no-effect" hypothesis. But what
mattered was that yet another sacred cow was wounded. For many police leaders,
this completed the well-justified execution of the three-Rs strategy, which
legitimated trying alternatives.

   These three studies created a strong appetite for more experiments and
support for funding them from influential scholars. Franklin E. Zimring, James
Q. Wilson, Albert J. Reiss Jr., and others shaped several National Academy of
Science reports recommending more NIJ funding for randomized experiments
(Zimring 1976; White and Krislov 1977). These reports led to NIJ funding streams
for most of the more than 100 tests of police practices listed online by Lum,
Koper, and Telep (2010), many of which were funded in 1983-89 by James K.
[*389]  Stewart, the only NIJ director to have served as an operational police
officer and leader.

C. Targeting

   Important as these tests were, they could not answer the more fundamental
question: how can police resources be allocated more effectively? Once the idea
of proactive policing became widely understood, it sparked a revolutionary
insight in targeting that Goldstein (1979) called problem-oriented policing
(POP). For reactive investigations, the RAND report also led to a revolutionary
question: can detectives target which cases they can solve by predicting the
likely outcome before they begin working on each case?

   1. Problem-Oriented Policing. After decades of observing police operations
for a major study of police discretion (LaFave 1965) and assisting one of the
first university graduate police executives in history (O. W. Wilson) as police
superintendent of Chicago, Herman Goldstein offered a revolutionary new
targeting strategy for policing. Describing a case-by-case response to events as
a myopic failure to see larger patterns, Goldstein (1979, 1990) recommended that
police invest more time in treating the causes of those patterns rather than
their symptoms. POP is more than a targeting strategy, however, since it also
develops ideas for the content of police actions to deal with targeted problems.
Yet the tactical content of POP is appropriately broad and highly dependent on
good diagnosis and good research on what action would work best. The major
breakthrough of the strategy is the injunction to first look for
patterns--proactively.

   2. Crime and Harm Concentrations. It was therefore no accident that Reiss,
the person who first used the term "proactive" in a policing context, suggested
that I study the distribution of all reactive police responses to reported
crimes and disorder by each and every address in a major city. The result was
our discovery of tiny, micro-level crime hot spots (Sherman 1987; Sherman,
Gartin, and Buerger 1989), in contrast to conventional concepts of much larger
high-crime areas. The city of Minneapolis provided the first, but by no means
the last, evidence of far greater concentrations of repeat problems at
individual street addresses than among individual offenders. Only 3 percent of
all street addresses in Minneapolis generated over half of all police rapid
responses. This addition to the existing research on crime concentrations showed
how police scholars could identify important new targets  [*390]  for proactive
policing on both sides of the Atlantic. While Goldstein's examples were richly
qualitative, the research on crime and harm concentrations was intensely
quantitative. American scholars found hot spots of crime. British scholars found
patterns of repeat victimization (Farrell 1995). In both cases, the numbers of
potential patterns were unlimited. Only newly available computers could say how
many addresses or people had more than 10, or 20, or 200 crimes over any given
time period. Only the computer could rank every known offender, victim,
location, neighborhood, weapon, modus operandi, or crime recruiter by the number
of repeat events in a year (Reiss 1988). What these studies showed were highly
concentrated distributions of crime in a small proportion of any of the units at
risk, from people to places to times and situations.

   3. Investigative Solvability Factors. News reports intermittently "reveal"
that only a small proportion of crimes lead to arrests or convictions, as if
they had discovered something new. There is, however, no evidence to suggest
that it was ever otherwise, at any time in the last two centuries (see, e.g.,
Monkkonen 1992). At the same time the RAND report on detectives was under way,
scholars at Stanford University asked whether they could target solvable crimes
for priority investment, allocating resources that might otherwise be wasted on
pursuing unsolvable crimes.

   This idea of "triage" was at least as old as the US Civil War, when doctors
worked first on people who would die without immediate assistance. They
postponed work on two other groups (hence the term "tri-age"): those who would
die even with treatment and those who would live without immediate treatment.
The strategy was intended to optimize the number of lives. For policing, it
offered a way to make policing far more effective.

   As Greenberg and Lang (1973) suggested, the likely "solvability" of each case
can be reliably, but not perfectly, identified at the time an initial
investigation is completed. By using a checklist of available forensic evidence
in each case when it arrives on a detective's desk, the detective can decide
whether to close the case or start working on it. The checklist that Stanford
developed included such items as fingerprints, witnesses, footprints, names of
likely suspects, and other facts. A test of one such solvability model on over
12,000 burglary cases found that it correctly predicted in 85 percent of the
cases whether the case would be solved or not (Eck 1979), suggesting that
nonsolvable  [*391]  cases could be filed immediately with little difference in
result. The next question, however, is still unanswered, as with the untested
conclusions about response time and random patrols: how would a "checklist of
solvability factors" regime compare to an "investigate every case" regime in
terms of overall detection rates--or even to a "discretionary, nonchecklist
decision about solvability" regime?

D. Tracking

   No matter what targets are selected for police resources, no matter how well
the police methods are tested, the central management question will always be,
"what are police doing to accomplish our objectives, when, where, and with what
apparent result?" In my first year at the NYPD in 1971, few police leaders ever
discussed that question. By 1991, the question was asked all over the New York
subways by then- Transit Police Chief William Bratton, and by 1995, he was
grilling NYPD commanders on the question in front of 200 people at Police
Headquarters. Yet long before New York reached that point, the British police
were being driven hard by the numbers. Only the numbers, and the conversations,
were very different.

   1. Performance Management, UK Style. From the dawn of the Thatcher
government, UK policing was dominated by two themes: huge pay increases and an
explosion of statistical management. Key Performance Indicators were tabulated
annually on a national level and monthly on a local level (Parkinson 2013).
Eventually, police agencies were not only assessed on whether they had met
specific goals set by central government but also compared to all other police
agencies in a kind of "class rank," or football league table. One police agency
would be ranked first, one ranked last.

   These rankings created enormous pressure on police leadership to track what
their officers were doing. Yet the pressure was not matched by any new tools,
either hardware or managerial, for monitoring police activity. Only the numbers
of police car dispatches, crime reports, or arrests were easily measurable. It
was no surprise that these numbers were sometimes manipulated, including a
"flexible" definition of crime types and other crimes "taken into consideration"
when confessed by offenders caught red-handed. Even police response time was
used in some years, despite its discredited status in the United States.

   By 2012, these interagency competitions were mostly rejected in UK police
culture. Yet the precedent they set for tracking in general is still  [*392]
widely accepted. What police now understand is that the number of actions
tracked should be relatively small, and each one should have a direct connection
to something that is well researched and found useful. What US police learned
from the British experience is that timely data could help drive a police
agency.

   2. COMPSTAT. No one put that lesson to better use than William Bratton
(1998), who served as the chief executive of the Boston, New York, and Los
Angeles Police Departments. With his colleague Jack Maple (1999), he developed a
more focused process of tracking police activity. Using area commanders as the
conduit for strategic initiatives, Bratton and Maple developed the COMPSTAT
(computerized statistics) meetings as a means of pushing for better policing and
less crime. Local commanders were arrested from time to time and charged with
manipulating crime statistics, but for the most part, the system has been seen
as operating with integrity. By 2012 the NYPD system was 18 years old and was
still in operation, despite turnover in mayors and police commissioners. There
is enormous potential to expand it to better indicators and performance.

   3. Auditing for Evidence. In late 2012 the Metropolitan Police at New
Scotland Yard launched a top-to-bottom effort to push evidence into every aspect
of police operations, training, and promotions (Stanko 2013). This decision
included a plan to appoint a Commissioner's Professor of Policing in a major
university, a position that would entail 50 percent time doing research for a
50,000-employee police agency. This research could include comprehensive reviews
of police practices against what the research evidence--especially testing--says
about those practices. It would also likely entail new randomized controlled
trials to be conducted in London. This plan for evidence-based policing was
premised on the recognition of a vast body of research that had not yet been
fully applied to police operations. This decision of Police Commissioner Sir
Bernard Hogan-Howe provides perhaps the clearest indication of the
Anglo-American rise of evidence for police decisions.

E. Explaining the Rise

   How policing learned so much, and put so much of it to work, cannot be easily
explained by any current theory of knowledge. Even the history of medicine
offers thin explanations of why doctors do research, and why, if ever, they
decide to use it (Millenson 1997) or  [*393]  not, as in their continued failure
to wash their hands after touching each patient (Pittet and Boyce 2001). What
follows is my insider's hunch about a theory of police knowledge. This hunch is
by no means a general theory of developing and using professional knowledge. My
explanation is deeply, if not widely, "grounded" (Glaser and Straus 1967) in my
continuous participant-observation study of Anglo-Celtic policing since 1968.

   The theory has a major premise: that democratic policing is an extremely open
system. Far more than any publicly held stockholder corporation, and probably
more than any other government agency, policing is always vulnerable to the
demands of any vocal constituency. No matter how small the group of demanders or
how justified their complaints, police leaders must listen to them and give due
consideration to them in providing better (or different) police practices. This
pattern of organizational behavior has been observed in general since at least
Thompson (1967, pp. 30, 37). Wilson (1968, p. 78) described a subset of this
pattern in his discussion of "critical events" in policing, such as scandals,
riots, police killings of citizens, and police strikes. The key question for
evidence is what happens next: how critical events may shape evidence, and how
evidence may then shape policy.

   Figure 1 presents a causal model in which external demands for different
policing are the major driving force. The theory claims that these demands are
transformed by the human capital of the police institution, at both its core
(police leaders) and its periphery (police scholars and research funders). In
turn, human capital is shaped by the broader government policies that are also a
target of public demands. The presence or absence of talented police leaders and
scholars often reflects a 20- or 30-year lag in recruitment conditions and is
highly dependent on national policies affecting police salaries, research
funding, and other aspects of the capacity to generate and use research
evidence. The people in a position to influence policy, if they are skilled
enough, can then identify critical research questions and complete research
projects, which are then communicated to police practitioners. Police managers
and officers will then decide--immediately, somewhat later, or many years
later--to apply the conclusions of the research evidence in their police
practices. Sometimes this happens without their even knowing that the practice
was shaped by research evidence (see, e.g., Police Executive Research Forum
2008).

   These practices, and the ongoing critical events associated with  [*394]
them, continue to shape external demands on police. This happens only in part on
the basis of police success or failure in meeting those demands. Many other
things shape those demands, of course, and may be far more important than what
police actually do. These other factors include economic ups and downs,
emigration and immigration, ethnic and racial conflict, baby booms and busts,
and possibly even a lag time from policies on leaded gasoline (Nevin 2000). Thus
external demands on police are largely exogenous to the model, even though
police can try to shape them to some degree. This makes the external demands
[*395]  fairly insensitive to how well police are performing in any objective
sense. Yet the model leaves room for improvements in police practice at least to
mitigate criticism and possibly even to increase legitimacy of the police and
trust and confidence in them. FIG. 1.--A theoretical model of the rise of
evidence-based policing

   The role of technology is also exogenous to the model and may be even more
important than citizen demands (Manning 1992). Both police and societies adopt
new technologies rapidly when their advantages are obvious and their cost
declines. Many technologies, such as the automobile and the computer, are sold
initially at high cost and then become much cheaper. By the time most US
households owned an auto, for example, most police patrols were also performed
in cars. The adoption of personal computers also lagged but was much faster. The
desktop computer that analyzed police mainframe data to identify hot spots of
crime (Sherman 1987) was unavailable in the Minneapolis Police Department in the
1980s, but later, faster, cheaper laptop models were widely available in
policing by the 1990s. The rise of DNA testing still hinges on reducing the cost
of speedy results (Roman et al. 2009). The spread and impact of body-worn video
may also hinge on reliability and the cost of data storage.

   The model does not suggest that there is a direct pathway between demands for
specific improvements in policing, such as more legitimate rape investigations,
and research on how this demand can be met. To the contrary: demands for
immediate solutions send governments and police in a frantic search for research
that has already been done. If none exists, that merely provides evidence that
policing lacks an evidence base. For example, the death of a bystander hit by a
constable in a 2009 London protest was associated with a controversial police
tactic called "kettling," or restraining people for hours in a cordoned-off
area. The UK government launched a rapid evidence assessment on kettling but
found that little research had been done. Rather than investing in such research
over a longer time frame, the government chose to report the knowledge gap and
then ignore it.

   The direct pathway from specific demands for police innovations usually
travels to police leaders through theory and precedent from other jurisdictions,
but not through new research. The way research can affect policy is to
anticipate the chronically recurring issues and have research evidence ready for
the next critical event. As a member of Parliament for Cambridge once said,
research findings are "money in the bank" (Howarth 2010). They do not have to be
used immediately  [*396]  and can go unused for years until there is a demand
for them. That is why the line from research goes directly to police practices,
since research can be kept in readiness to shape the decisions on police
practices when "critical events" press police leaders to meet external demands
to change them.

   This theory explains the past but need not predict the future. A more
rational model of using evidence to improve policing would be proactively led by
the police profession, not reactively driven by the political environment. That
model might even reduce the number of critical events that threaten police
legitimacy. It is one that, as applied to health care, has helped to keep down
medical costs in the United Kingdom to less than half the percentage of gross
domestic product as in the United States, where there is no system to target
resources on the basis of professional research evidence (Sherman 2011b). It is
also the plan for what the College of Policing might do as a champion and
arbiter of evidence-based practice.

   II. What We Know and What Police Do

The clearest test of my claims about evidence is whether police decisions are
more consistent with the evidence now than in 1975. As of 2012 the record on
that test was mixed but encouraging. There are many areas of triple-T in which
the evidence is useful and police are using it. There are others in which the
evidence is useful but is not used. The adoption of evidence-based decision
making has been stronger for targeting and tracking than for testing, but all
three areas have seen a substantial impact of research on practice. This section
supports those conclusions with a series of short summaries of good evidence on
many aspects of policing, followed by even shorter summaries of whether that
evidence is used.

   There are many other strategies that can use EBP besides triple-T. Evidence
can be useful, for example, in the recruitment and promotion of more women
police leaders, in developing better ways to train police, or in finding
lighter-weight body armor with greater protection. This essay focuses on
triple-T because it can shape the core of policing and holds the greatest
potential for the direct reduction of harm in society.

   The most accessible evidence of the large quantity of the testing police have
done can be found by Googling the Evidence-Based Policing  [*397]  Matrix at
George Mason University's Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy (Lum, Koper,
and Telep 2010). This website lists over 100 controlled tests of police
practices, in both randomized experiments and quasi experiments. The matrix is
designed by a former Baltimore detective to increase the use of research
evidence in daily police operations. Other easily accessible sources, such as
http://www.crimesolutions.gov (at the US Department of Justice) and
http://www.campbellcollaboration.org (operated by the Norwegian government),
provide additional evidence on tests of police effectiveness.

   Evidence on targeting and tracking resources is more scattered and
inaccessible than it is for testing. The likely solution to that problem is for
George Mason, the College of Policing, and other knowledge centers to broaden
their knowledge repositories to include evidence on all areas of triple-T.

   The evidence on the use of research in policing is much harder to come by and
is badly in need of more evidence of its own. This section draws heavily on
qualitative evidence gathered in over 54 weeks of discussions at Cambridge
University with police executives from around the world in 2007-12 (primarily
reporting on the United Kingdom, United States, and Australia). That evidence
may be the least reliable of any reviewed here, but it is a consistent source
applied equally to all the different topics addressed below.

A. Targeting Police Resources

   In this subsection, I consider a range of evidence about ways police agencies
can set priorities for investing their personnel with the greatest return on
investment. It includes studies of how police use their time and of how they
could focus their time on concentrations of high-priority events. It includes
tests of targeting strategies as well as tests of predictions about
high-priority targets, which must be distinguished from the tests of police
impact on public safety discussed below.

   1. Differential Police Response.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that police can greatly limit their use
of rapid response by car without offending citizens or putting them at risk.
Callers will accept police decisions not to dispatch a police car for
nonemergencies if the policy is explained to them by the person who answers the
telephone. In randomized experiments in three US cities (McEwen, Connors, and
Cohen 1986), citizens calling about  [*398]  matters that were not emergencies
were given one of two responses: that police will come "as soon as they can"
(standard policy at the time) or that no response is necessary since the matter
can be handled by telephone or other methods. Citizens were equally satisfied
with both responses. The benefit was that call takers performed the same work as
patrol officers in about one-third of the work time, with no transportation
costs or air pollution. In some agencies, rapid police responses could be
reduced by 50 percent or more with substantial savings--or more resources
preventing serious crime.

   What Police Do. The use of "differential police response" (DPR) remains very
mixed. Even when DPR is used, it is rarely evidence-based. The 1986 evaluation
is generally unknown to contemporary police professionals, yet it is freely
available online and could save millions annually in any large police agency.
Every police agency could easily conduct its own randomized trial of different
kinds of incidents for which callers would receive a nondispatch response. At a
time when police resources are declining in the United States and the United
Kingdom (Sherman 2011b), an evidence-based approach to targeting resources where
they are needed most is now needed more than ever.

   2. Hot Spots of Crime.

   The Evidence. There is good descriptive evidence that police can target
resources on most crimes by identifying the small fraction of small places in
any city where crime happens repeatedly (Sherman, Gartin, and Buerger 1989;
Weisburd, Groff, and Yang 2012). These hot spot concentrations are clearest at a
very micro level, such as a single address, a cluster of addresses, or a
"block-face" street segment from one corner to the next on a single street.
While some hot spots may wax and wane from year to year or month to month, many
are stable for 15 years or more (Weisburd et al. 2004). Hot spots can be mapped,
ranked, classified by offense type, and analyzed in many ways relevant to police
operations.

   What Police Do. Crime mapping is widespread, with many police agencies using
it to identify hot spots. By the 2007 US Law Enforcement Management and
Administrative Statistics Survey, over half of all cities of 50,000 or more
residents used computers to generate crime hot spots, including almost all
cities of over 500,000 people (Reaves 2010, p. 22). But the definition of hot
spots varies widely. In many UK agencies, these locations are usually much
larger than what the original research evidence analyzed. Entire patrol beats,
rather than street corners  [*399]  or face blocks, are the United Kingdom's
more common unit of analysis, while the opposite tendency is found in the United
States. A sample of 192 big US cities showed slightly higher use of
intersections (63 percent) than of neighborhoods (57 percent) as the definition
of hot spots (Police Executive Research Forum 2008, p. 3). UK police in 2012
were at a special disadvantage because of their dispatch systems, which often
failed to pinpoint the locations where crimes occur; some audits have shown the
mapped locations of crimes to be great distances from the actual locations. Any
police agency that is serious about reducing crime must, arguably, invest in
correcting crime location errors, ideally by using GPS devices to include the
exact latitude and longitude of every crime reported. In Andhra Pradesh, India,
some police stations had incorporated GPS data into all crime reports by early
2011, and Trinidad and Tobago adopted it nationally in 2012, when no UK agency
had yet done so. GPS measures would also improve the accuracy of targeting
analysis for directed patrol and problem solving.

   3. Hot Spots of Distrust.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that distrust of police is concentrated
in a small proportion of urban neighborhoods. Police legitimacy is defined as a
public (or police) perception of the moral right to exercise legal powers. This
means that policing can be legal but illegitimate in the eyes of some (or most)
beholders (Tankebe 2009; Bottoms and Tankebe 2012). The legitimacy of policing
is highly correlated with minority or majority status in many populations
(Sherman 2002), with majority populations attributing much greater legitimacy to
police than minorities. Riots in US cities were concentrated in such hot spots
(Rossi, Berk, and Eidson 1974). One recent study of public trust in a UK police
jurisdiction showed very high levels of distrust in certain minority areas
(Murray 2009). Yet not all majority-minority areas have highly negative views of
police; some (as in Chicago) have more positive views (Skogan 1990; Skogan and
Hartnett 1997; Sampson and Bartusch 1998).

   What Police Do. Very few police agencies take annual surveys of public
attitudes toward police. The US agencies that pay for such evidence tend to
focus on citywide ratings rather than neighborhood-level differences. Some UK
agencies have paid for neighborhood-level breakdowns with samples as large as
30,000 responses agencywide. Targeting strategies for increasing police
legitimacy cannot be accomplished  [*400]  on a geographic basis unless such
evidence is generated annually, so that deterioration or progress can be
identified.

   4. Hot Times and Days.

   The Evidence. Crime risks vary enormously by time of day and day of week
(Sherman 1992a), as well as season by season and holiday by holiday. Weather
also has a strong effect on police workload (Cohn 1993), and in some regions it
can be predicted days in advance with high reliability.

   What Police Do. This issue remains the major failure of evidence-based
targeting (Sherman 1992a). More money is wasted by ignoring "hot times"
targeting than by any other police management practice. As one UK inspection
report observed (Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary 2010, p. 3), more
police officers were on patrol on Monday mornings than on Friday nights. The
failure to schedule a workforce based on high-crime times and days is largely
due to police labor contracts. These agreements serve the reasonable interests
of police officers in a predictable work schedule. What is unreasonable to
taxpayers is chronic and predictable understaffing during the peak crime times
and overstaffing during "cool" times.

   5. Repeat Offenders.

   The Evidence. A small number of all offenders commit a high proportion of all
crimes (Blumstein et al. 1986). Few specialize in any particular crime, and most
of the crimes they commit are offenses against property. Controlling crime
rates, and even the aggregated crime harm, may depend on police identifying,
managing, or arresting prolific offenders.

   What Police Do. Some police agencies target high-volume offenders who are not
in jail (Spelman 1990). Yet almost no police agency has an instant query
capacity to determine whether a particular known offender is in prison or at
large. No agency appears to develop objectives for reducing recidivism of
high-rate offenders, or even tracking the proportion of known repeat offenders
they have put behind bars or under correctional supervision at any given time.
Since the population of such offenders at large changes daily, a substantial
investment in evidence gathering would be needed to target repeat offenders day
by day. Nonetheless, most agencies would report that "we do that already,"
without actually investing in what is required to target repeat offenders in an
evidence-based way.

   6. Dangerous versus "Supersafe" Offenders.

    [*401]  The Evidence. More important than repeat offenders, and far fewer in
number, are the most dangerous offenders. People who are most likely to kill,
rape, rob, or commit sex crimes against children can be identified and
forecasted from large databases (Berk et al. 2009). While the error rates in
forecasting dangerousness can be substantial, the errors in forecasting
"supersafe" conduct are minimal. A UK analysis of 100,000 convicted offenders
found 96 percent accuracy in classifying offenders as not dangerous if somewhat
lower accuracy (84 percent) in forecasting zero recidivism over a 2-year period
(Sherman, Cosma, and Neyroud 2012).

   What Police Do. The techniques used to classify known offenders as very
dangerous, supersafe, or in between are new to both criminology and policing.
From around 2000, UK police chiefs tried hard to identify the most dangerous
offenders, but with highly subjective "clinical" methods that have failed to
pass basic statistical tests (Thornton 2011). UK chiefs have recently expressed
great interest in applying statistical forecasting methods to their local
offender populations, requesting the statistical models as soon as they could be
made available (Peter Neyroud, personal communication). Meanwhile, the few
police agencies employing their own statisticians are free to replicate the
published models.

   7. Crime Recruiters.

   The Evidence. A small proportion of repeat offenders have a high propensity
for being arrested with, and apparently "recruiting," many different
co-offenders (Reiss 1988; Reiss and Farrington 1991; Sherman 1992a). Where these
co-offenders are almost always younger than the more experienced offender, the
pattern suggests that the frequent co-offender may be recruiting novices into
crime or certain types of crime. The hypothesis is even more compelling if the
younger offenders have no prior record. That is exactly what an analysis of all
arrestees in Sacramento, California, found over a multiyear period (Englefield
2013).

   What Police Do. Only one police agency so far is known to generate lists of
high-volume crime recruiters (Sacramento), but others may follow suit. The fact
that the strongest evidence was generated not by an academic but by a police
officer writing a master's thesis (as a self-funded student at Cambridge) is a
good indication of the rise of professionally driven research in policing
(Weisburd and Neyroud 2011).

   8. Traumatized Victims.

    [*402]  The Evidence. Crime victims suffer great trauma from rape and rape
attempts (Foa 1997). They also suffer lesser but high levels of trauma from
noninjury crimes such as burglary and robbery, especially women (Angel 2005).
While they are rarely diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, they suffer
elevated levels of post-traumatic stress symptoms.

   What Police Do. Anglo-Celtic police have become far more sensitive to
rape-related trauma since 1975 and have developed elaborate protocols for rape
investigations and related medical care. Police do not, however, generally
target the victims of lesser trauma, largely because there has been little
external pressure to do so. Yet well-tested methods exist that police could use
to massively reduce the symptoms of posttraumatic stress.

   9. Repeat Victims.

   The Evidence. High proportions of residential and personal crimes are
committed against repeat victims (Pease 1998).

   What Police Do. Police programs on repeat victimization tend to target all
victims rather than to identify repeat victims. Other than the Minneapolis RECAP
program in the 1980s (Buerger 1993), few police agencies have even developed
lists of repeat victims. This may be a missed opportunity for reducing both
crime and harm.

   10. Near-Miss Victims.

   The Evidence. One of the most predictable risks of a residential burglary is
in the zone of a few buildings on either side, behind, and in front of a
burglarized residence for the first 10-14 days after the burglary (Bowers,
Johnson, and Pease 2004; Johnson and Bowers 2004).

   What Police Do. For a decade after these findings were published, almost no
police agencies identified these "near-miss" areas for prevention programs. Then
a few UK police agencies began doing so in 2011-12. The word-of-mouth interest
in this approach came from presentations by University of London academics to
practitioner audiences at Cambridge and Cardiff conferences of the Society of
Evidence-Based Policing and was still spreading in 2012.

   11. "Solvability Factors."

   The Evidence. There is good evidence, summarized above, that police
investigations can be targeted on the cases most likely to be solved and that
investigations are wasted on cases in which a detection is predicted to be
highly unlikely.

    [*403]  What Police Do. This is another major failure of getting research
into practice, at least by 2012. It is hard to find a police agency that employs
a statistical model of solvability factors to allocate the very scarce resource
of investigators' time. Many police agencies still say they investigate all
crimes. Others admit that they will close cases that are not solved after a
certain period, but they do not use a statistical algorithm to decide which ones
to abandon at the outset. Many confuse this research with closing cases on the
basis of seriousness rather than solvability, such as when the value of property
stolen is too low. It remains a prime opportunity for policing to save money and
do more to help crime victims.

B. Testing Police Practices

   The following subsections discuss a selection of major police practices that
have been tested with at least a comparison group. Many have been tested with
randomized controlled trials, and some have been tested repeatedly with up to 20
or more randomized trials. It is the most robust area of evidence supporting the
triple-T strategy but also the area of biggest gaps between evidence and
practice.

   1. Random Marked Car Patrol.

   The Evidence. There is little direct evidence that random patrol of areas
that have little crime can cause any less crime than having no patrol. The major
exception is police strikes, which consistently cause crime to skyrocket
(Sherman 1992a, pp. 192-93).

   What Police Do. Random patrol by "rapid response" cars is still widespread
across Anglo-Celtic policing. Even when police are told to "concentrate" patrols
in, or "give special attention to," certain areas, this can amount to only a few
minutes per work shift. Random patrol predominates in practice if not in
rhetoric; hot spot patrol is rising rapidly, at least in rhetoric if not yet in
practice.

   2. Hot Spot Car Patrol.

The Evidence. Doubling the dosage of marked car patrols in high-crime hot spots
at higher-crime times can measurably reduce crime and disorder in those hot
spots (Sherman and Weisburd 1995). In the Minneapolis hot spots experiment, an
average of 15 percent of at-risk time with police present produced moderately
less crime, and half the disorder, than in a comparison group with police
present for only 7 percent of at-risk time. Koper (1995) reported that the
greatest residual deterrence in each hot spot (Sherman 1990) was associated with
15-minute  [*404]  periods of patrol presence, compared to both shorter and
longer periods of patrol. Various police strategies have been tested in other
hot spots experiments (Braga, Papachristos, and Hureau 2012), but none has
apparently replicated either the unit of analysis or the measured dosage levels
of the initial Minneapolis experiment (Sherman and Weisburd 1995). Displacement
was not measured in the initial experiment, but it has been falsified in a range
of other hot spots patrol tests (Weisburd et al. 2006). No experiment, however,
has compared hot spots to random patrol at the level of police districts. No
test has yet made a direct comparison between, for example, 50 districts using
random patrols and 50 districts concentrating patrols in crime hot spots. Until
such a test is done, a huge gap remains in the evidence on hot spots policing.

   What Police Do. Directed patrols at crime hot spots in marked cars is a
growing practice in the United States and the United Kingdom. Hot spots patrol
has been identified by the NYPD as a major strategy to which it attributes a
decline in homicide rates (Zimring 2012).Weisburd and Lum (2005) found that
among the 92 US police departments responding to a survey of a random sample of
125 with 100 or more police officers, 62 percent had adopted computerized crime
mapping by 2001. The most common reason these early adopters gave for their
decision--43 percent--was to "facilitate hot spots policing." Thus by 2001, 27
percent of the responding agencies said that they had adopted computerized crime
mapping to facilitate hot spots policing. By 2007, the Police Executive Research
Forum survey of 192 large police agencies found that hot spots had become the
most common police strategy for fighting violent crime since "nearly nine out of
10 agencies use hot spots enforcement efforts directed either at larger hot spot
areas like neighborhoods (57 percent), smaller hot spot places like
intersections (63 percent), or both" (2008, p. 3). In the United Kingdom, hot
spots patrol is growing in tests as well as in practice, with three different
police agencies testing such patrol in 2012-13.

   3. Random Foot Patrol.

   The Evidence. Two quasi-experimental tests of random foot patrol found no
effect on crime (Kelling et al. 1981; Trojanowicz and Baldwin 1982). The Newark
Foot Patrol Experiment, however, found reduced public perceptions of crime and
disorder in areas with foot patrols compared with control areas (Kelling et al.
1981).

   What Police Do. Random foot patrol has almost disappeared in  [*405]
Anglo-Celtic policing. Its use is limited to the highest-density areas of the
largest cities, such as New York and London. Hot spot foot patrol is far more
common.

   4. Hot Spot Foot Patrol.

   The Evidence. A brief but randomized controlled test of foot patrol in
high-crime areas of Philadelphia found that foot patrol caused significant
reductions in violent crime with only modest local displacement effects
(Ratcliffe et al. 2011). The areas were much larger than the Minneapolis hot
spot street corners but still smaller than a typical police district.

   What Police Do. In the United States, foot patrol in high-crime hot spots is
most likely to be used in densely populated cities. In the United Kingdom,
Police Community Support Officers, whose uniforms look much like those of police
constables with full arrest powers, are often used for foot patrols in town
centers and suburban shopping strips.

   5. Rapid Response Policing.

   The Evidence. There is no direct evidence that rapid response can make any
difference in detection or crime rates and some indirect evidence that it
cannot. It is very rare that rapid response can catch an offender. Rarer still
does rapid response save a crime victim from serious injury. The capacity to do
so may be a core feature of police legitimacy, an aspect of this issue on which
there is no evidence.

   What Police Do. Police agencies still spend substantial funds ensuring the
capacity to respond very quickly. Some of them track average response times very
closely and advertise the results by public announcements.

   6. Problem-Oriented Policing.

   The Evidence. Both randomized experiments and quasi experiments have tested
Goldstein's (1979, 1990) proposed strategy of attacking underlying causes,
rather than just symptoms, of patterns of crime. Most reported studies have been
before-after studies with no control group, most of which report substantial
success. The largest randomized trial (Sherman, Gartin, and Buerger 1989)
reported that POP caused a 15 percent reduction in calls over 6 months in a
sample of some 250 residential locations, but not in a sample of 250 commercial
locations. A systematic review of randomized trials of POP found, on average,
that POP produces modest but clear reductions in the problems it targets
(Weisburd et al. 2010).

   What Police Do. Thousands of US and UK police are enthusiastic  [*406]  about
POP and often do it despite peer pressure not to. For many it is an
unacknowledged addition to their random patrol work, which many police agencies
have encouraged. What some, but still few, agencies have done is to create
either specialized units of experts in POP (such as the Minneapolis RECAP Unit)
or case management systems for identifying problems and assigning specific time
periods for specific officers to undertake POP work and be held accountable for
the results.

   7. Stop-and-Question.

   The Evidence. There is highly consistent evidence that stop-and-question or
stop-and-search causes reductions in weapons violence and homicide (Koper and
Mayo-Wilson 2006), based on seven out of seven quasi experiments reducing either
homicide or gunshot wounds. Repeated cross-sectional analyses across US cities
show lower levels of robberies and other crimes where police proactively issue
more traffic violations or make arrests for disorderly conduct (e.g., Kubrin et
al. 2010). No evidence exists on the life course effects of police stops on
those who are stopped, especially whether a contact with police that is seen as
hostile can engender defiance that increases future offending (Sherman 1993).
One survey of a residential area with high levels of gun violence found
substantial support for this practice among residents (Shaw 1995), but no
surveys were done of those stopped.

   What Police Do. For many police agencies, stop-and-question is an embedded
part of patrol practice in high-crime areas. Its use in crime hot spots in New
York and London is highly visible and highly controversial. Few debates
distinguish between the questions of how stops should be done and whether they
should be done at all. Many police agencies track the occurrence of stops, but
not their qualities of procedural fairness. As Reiss (1971) suggested, all
citizen encounters could end with police giving citizens a receipt with the
officer's identifying details and the date and time. Such a system could lead to
measures of quality.

   8. Covert Surveillance.

   The Evidence. The use of covert surveillance on repeat offenders alleged to
be committing serious crimes was tested in a Washington, DC, experiment (Martin
and Sherman 1986). Random assignment of surveillance, compared to a control
group, substantially increased the likelihood of a suspect being arrested as
well as convicted and sentenced to prison.

   What Police Do. Police rarely use covert surveillance against ongoing  [*407]
street crime. UK police use it sparingly for very serious sex offenders who have
been released from prison.

   9. Arrests for Domestic Assault.

   The Evidence. There is consistent evidence that arresting unemployed domestic
abusers causes more violence but no consistent evidence that arrest reduces
domestic violence. Three randomized controlled trials of arrests for domestic
assault have examined the interaction between employment and arrest on repeat
violence (Pate and Hamilton 1992; Sherman 1992b); a fourth examined the same
interaction on repeat domestic calls including arguments as well as violent
crime (Berk et al. 1992). All four tests showed that arrest had different
effects on employed suspects than on unemployed suspects. The three studies of
assault found that arrest reduced repeat crimes for employed suspects but
substantially increased repeat crimes for unemployed suspects. Two of the five
randomized trials of the main effect of arrest for assaults did not report tests
for an interaction effect with suspect employment. But the Milwaukee experiment
found that arrests for common assault caused significantly more domestic
violence repeat offending than an on-site warning even after 24 years (Sherman
and Harris 2012).

   What Police Do. Elected legislators have prevented police from using
evidence-based practice on domestic violence in over half of US states and all
across England and Wales. Either a legal or a policy mandate requires police to
make arrests whenever there is sufficient legal evidence to do so. Police in
some US agencies have widely ignored this mandate for decades (Ferraro 1989).
Others in the United States and most of the UK agencies have been more
compliant, but with frequent sensitivity to victims' preferences. New
experiments in policing domestic violence were launched in Hampshire (UK) in
2012, when evidence-based changes in policy were widely discussed across the
United Kingdom.

   10. Warrants for Domestic Assault.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that issuing an arrest warrant for an
absent domestic violence suspect has a "sword of Damocles" effect in suppressing
repeat assaults. A randomized controlled trial in Omaha, Nebraska, enrolled
cases in which suspects had already left the scene before police arrived. The
police then randomly assigned either the standard police policy of advising the
victim how to pay for an arrest warrant to be issued in court or went to the
court to arrange  [*408]  issuance of a warrant free of any charge to the
victim. In the cases assigned to police-initiated warrants, there was
significantly less repeat violence reported by the victims of abuse to the
university interviewers. There were also substantially fewer police reports of
repeat offending (Dunford 1990).

   What Police Do. Police rarely issue warrants for simple assault. Some English
police go looking for an absent suspect when there is evidence of an assault and
"hand over" the case to the next shift if the absent suspect has not been found.
No evidence exists on the rate at which absent offenders are found or the rates
of those not found being subjected to a police-initiated warrant, but these
rates could be part of tracking.

   11. "Second Responder" Follow-ups after Domestic Incidents.

   The Evidence. Several randomized controlled trials have tested follow-up
visits by "second responder" police or social workers, or both, some days after
police have responded to a domestic violence call or made an arrest. A
systematic review of these experiments included both repeat calls to police and
interviews with the victims (Davis, Wiesburd, and Taylor 2008). The review found
no difference between the self-reported victimizations of those victims who had
been visited and those who had not, but there were more calls to the police
about new violence by those who had been visited than among those left alone.
While the evidence is ambiguous, second response cannot be considered
beneficial. Increased reporting might be of some benefit, but it may also just
indicate more violence.

   What Police Do. Few police agencies deploy second responders, yet some UK
agencies "invented" the idea in 2010-12 without knowledge of the results of the
Davis, Weisburd, and Taylor (2008) systematic review.

   12. Police-Led Restorative Justice Conferences.

   The Evidence. Eight randomized controlled trials have tested police-led
restorative justice conferences (RJCs) with crime victims, their offenders, and
their respective friends or family in Australia (two), the United Kingdom
(five), and the United States (one). Seven of these eight tests found a
reduction in repeat offending among offenders assigned to restorative justice
(Sherman and Strang 2012). The one failure had a high proportion of Aboriginal
offenders, for whom restorative justice badly backfired (Sherman et al. 2006). A
systematic review and meta-analysis of these experiments, combined with two
others in  [*409]  which nonpolice led the conference, found an average effect
that was small but statistically significant among robbers, burglars, violent
offenders, and property offenders (Strang et al. 2013).

   What Police Do. Few Anglo-Celtic police officers were leading RJCs in 2012,
although other kinds of people led them frequently in New Zealand and Northern
Ireland. Police in England and Wales have been trained to use a "mini" version
of these conferences in street settings, immediately after responding, which are
often called "restorative disposals" or "community resolutions." This version of
RJCs has not been tested.

   13. Prosecution of Juveniles.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that when police prosecute most juvenile
offenders, they cause more crime than they prevent--at least among those
offenders. In 29 randomized controlled trials over four decades, in studies
enrolling a total of 7,304 juvenile offenders, those who were prosecuted after
arrest had more repeat offending than those who were diverted or cautioned
(Petrosino, Turpin-Petrosino, and Guckenburg 2010). All tests were conducted in
the United States except two of the restorative justice experiments in
Australia. The offenders had committed a range of property and less serious
violent crimes. Those who were diverted from prosecution had lower offending
rates when the disposition required them to do less follow-up work, and the best
success was found with no conditions at all.

   What Police Do. Police practices with juvenile offenders remain mixed and
largely unmeasured. In the United Kingdom, there has been a substantial increase
in formal prosecution since 1975, but this trend may have reversed since 2010.

   14. Neighborhood Watch.

   The Evidence. Neighborhood watch appears to cause a small but consistent
reduction in rates of burglary and other crimes. A systematic review examined 18
quasi-experimental controlled tests of neighborhood watch programs, either alone
or in combination with other situational prevention strategies, such as property
marking and home security surveys (Bennett, Holloway, and Farrington 2006).
Crime was measured by both police-recorded crime and victimization surveys. The
review found, on average, statistically significant crime reductions of 16-26
percent. Given the low levels of crime in many of the middleclass neighborhoods
in which the tests were done, it remains unclear whether the crime reductions
were cost-effective. Yet that issue can be  [*410]  raised about any evidence of
a positive effect of a police strategy relative to a control group.

   What Police Do. There is no good evidence about what police do in
neighborhood watch programs after a local group has held its first meeting.
There appears to be no tracking evidence on how much time police invest in
starting or maintaining neighborhood volunteer interest in preventing crime.
Signs warning would-be offenders that "this area is protected by neighborhood
watch" are ubiquitous in many US suburbs, but whether there have been any
neighborhood meetings to discuss crime in months or years is impossible to say.

   15. Drug Abuse Resistance Education (DARE).

   The Evidence. Repeated quasi experiments (Sherman et al. 1998) and a major
randomized controlled trial (Perry et al. 2003) have failed to show that the
standard DARE program reduces drug use or delinquency. The Perry et al. trial of
24 schools in Minneapolis did find that a greatly enhanced program called DARE
Plus reduced multidrug use (but not marijuana use) among boys, with no effect on
girls. But Dare Plus involved much greater use of parents than the standard DARE
program, which relies heavily on police visits to classrooms for its delivery.

   What Police Do. According to the DARE America home page, 220 US communities
started DARE programs over the preceding 3 years-- more than one per week. These
new startups are in addition to the website's claim that 75 percent of the more
than 14,000 US school districts offer DARE programs. Despite the example of
former Mayor Rocky Anderson of Salt Lake City, Utah (population 190,000),
ordering his police department in 2000 to stop wasting money on DARE (which he
called a "fraud"; Eyle 2001-2), most US police agencies still appear to be
sending police officers into classrooms to talk about drugs--with no
demonstrated return on the taxpayers' cost.

   16. "Pulling Levers": Focused Deterrence.

   The Evidence. The use of directed sanction threats to specific individuals
and groups gained worldwide attention when it preceded a complete cessation of
youth homicide in Boston in the 1990s. A systematic review of 10
quasi-experimental evaluations of this approach, seven of which used
nonequivalent (unmatched) control groups, examined the effect of this strategy
on such crimes as homicide and gang violence, mostly at the citywide level
(Braga and Weisburd 2012). The review found that nine out of 10 evaluations
showed statistically significant  [*411]  reductions in crime. Given the many
threats to the internal validity of these evaluations, the review authors
described the evidence as "promising."

   What Police Do. Police in communities with high homicide rates, from Trinidad
to Scotland, often try to replicate the "Boston miracle," which has received
further attention from David Kennedy's (2008, 2011) books on his experiences in
Boston and elsewhere.

C. Tracking Outputs and Outcomes

   1. Police Killings of Citizens.

   The Evidence. Fifty years ago, criminologist Gerald Robin (1963) published
the first cross-city comparison of the rates at which police committed
justifiable homicide against the citizens of their communities. This study
helped to spark two decades of research on the issue (e.g., Sherman and
Langworthy 1979; Fyfe 1980, 1982; Sherman 1980, 1983) that supported an appeal
of a police killing case to the US Supreme Court (Tennessee v. Garner, 471 U.S.
1 [1985]). The later research showed that limiting police killings to
defense-of-life situations had reduced deaths, without any increases in crime or
violence against police. The Garner decision, which cited the research evidence,
ruled that common law powers to kill unarmed fleeing felons were an
unconstitutional seizure without due process. The decision restricted police
powers to kill in over half of the 50 US states.

   What Police Do. Tennenbaum (1994) reports that killings by US police, which
had already been dropping prior to the 1985 Garner decision, dropped by 16
percent in its immediate aftermath. He also showed that police shootings for all
reasons, not just to catch fleeing felons, declined. Most US police shootings
are now tracked very closely, and police gun use is regulated by agency managers
far more intensely than in 1975. Police killings in the United States have risen
and fallen since then, but shootings of unarmed fleeing felons have virtually
disappeared.

   2. Police Use of Force.

   The Evidence. In the mid-1970s, city manager-run police agencies began to
require police to file a use-of-force report each time they used weapons,
handcuffs, or physical restraint against a citizen (Croft 1985). This paper file
tracking system enabled police managers to identify statistical outliers in the
frequency of use-of-force reports, as well as to justify in court or arbitration
hearings any dismissal of overly  [*412]  frequent users of force from police
service. An independent commission led by Warren Christopher (1991) in the
aftermath of the Los Angeles Police Department's Rodney King case documented
extreme concentrations of use of force among a small percentage of police
officers.

   What Police Do. Use-of-force reports are now widely used in the United
States, usually with stand-alone digital databases that allow frequent in-house
tracking analysis of the evidence. Litigation over police use of force is
defended with this evidence and possibly even prevented by managerial
application of these analyses to personnel and assignment decisions.

   3. Complaints against Police.

   The Evidence. In 1975, systems for receiving, recording, investigating, and
resolving citizen complaints against the police were very scarce. Cities as big
as Louisville, Kentucky, made it almost impossible for citizens to complain
against police (Sherman 1976). By the mid- 1980s, most US cities over 100,000
recorded and investigated complaints against police. By 2012 most US and UK
forces had computerized systems for tracking complaints by officer
characteristics, complainant characteristics, area demographics, type of
encounters, and other factors of managerial interest.

   What Police Do. Most large police agencies in 2012 had "professional
standards" units reporting to the police executive on trends and patterns in
complaints against police. Few of these, however, appear to be adjusting the
analyses for such crucial risk factors as how many encounters each officer had
with citizens each year, in each unit, or in each area. As in tracking evidence
generally, police managers often look at raw data that are not meaningful unless
they are standardized by relevant denominators (Kahneman 2011). High levels of
complaints may indicate high levels of misconduct. But unless complaints are
divided by contacts, they could also indicate a high level of professional
commitment to making as many appropriate contacts (and arrests) as possible.
Fairness alone requires the use of a standardizing denominator, as well as good
tracking measurement.

   4. Trust and Confidence in Police.

   The Evidence. There is now abundant research tracking trust and confidence in
policing. A recent government in the United Kingdom made public confidence the
single performance measure it said would be used to judge police performance.
Yet no governmental data supplement  [*413]  raw data with risk-adjusted data,
the latter taking into account factors affecting public confidence that are
irrelevant to police performance. Risk factors for public confidence may include
population demographics, structural inequality, lack of collective efficacy
(Sampson and Bartusch 1998), cultural backgrounds of populations, and other
factors (e.g., Jackson and Bradford 2009). There is a great need for better
risk-adjusted models of "expected" levels of trust and confidence in police.

   What Police Do. Many police agencies fail to track trust and confidence at
all. Some track raw levels citywide, and a few track it by neighborhoods. There
appears to be no use of risk-adjusted confidence measures in any of the police
agencies from 10 countries whose representatives were asked about this in recent
classes of the Cambridge Police Executive Programme.

   5. COMPSTAT.

   The Evidence. Since 1975, nothing has done more than the COMPSTAT idea to
increase the availability of evidence for tracking police performance at micro
levels of activity. At highly structured and periodic meetings of senior police
officials, operational commanders report the tracking data on their crime
patterns and (less often) on their anticrime strategies. Pioneered by Bratton
(1998) and Maple (1999), the COMPSTAT program was probably the first police
"interaction ritual" (Collins 2004) to make a "sacred" meaning. By reporting the
crime trends within days rather than months at very local levels, the
institutional meaning and police legitimacy associated with crime control became
far more intense than they had ever been before (Willis, Mastrofski, and
Weisburd 2007). My own observations in the NYPD in 1972 and in 1995 revealed an
enormous increase under COMPSTAT in the extent to which specific evidence about
crime and police practices was portrayed in statistical and graphical
visualizations. My own attempt to introduce something similar for the mayor of
Indianapolis in 1994-95 had failed to mobilize the same kind of intensity,
largely because the New York version engaged almost 200 people in the room
listening very closely (compared to six or seven in Indianapolis). New York also
used COMPSTAT with its unusually great legal authority to press unambitious area
commanders to retire and to reward successful commanders with
promotions--something few other agencies are able to do. NYPD officials who had
used COMPSTAT moved to other large cities, where they also used COMPSTAT for
citywide reviews of specific issues, from domestic violence to police  [*414]
corruption (Sherman 1978). No other system of tracking evidence on outcomes or
outputs has been so influential or comprehensive.

   What Police Do. In 1999, some 5 years after New York's COMPSTAT had become
highly publicized, the Police Foundation conducted a national survey of US
police agencies in cities over 100,000 residents (Weisburd et al. 2004). The
survey found that over half of those agencies (with an 85 percent response rate)
either had adopted a COMPSTAT-like program or were planning to do so. In the
early twenty-first century, COMPSTAT-like meetings were held regularly in many
UK police agencies. Few such meetings, however, track the key question under
discussion: where are the police doing what, and for how much of their time on
duty? That is a question that two major advances in technology will soon make it
easier to answer.

   6. GPS Tracking of Officer Locations.

   The Evidence. Police agencies have been able to track the locations of police
cars since at least the 1980s but have rarely done so. Police unions once
resisted the idea, especially in the 1970s, when some US officers regularly
slept in their cars on the midnight shift. The rise of GPS devices in police
radios and "smart" phones now makes it possible to track the whereabouts of each
officer every few minutes or seconds. Police officers also seem more willing to
allow this, if only as a safety device that could enable a rapid response of
other police to help them. An experiment in providing police supervisors with
data on how much time each patrol officer spent at directed patrols in crime hot
spots has been completed in Dallas, with encouraging results (Weisburd 2012).
Other experiments testing the use of tracking evidence for effects on police
performance are needed to determine whether tracking at this level of detail is
cost-effective or not.

   What Police Do. From the limited evidence available, it appears that as of
2012, no major police agency has made statistical use of GPS data about
locations of police outputs as a standard part of tracking or COMPSTAT. For
reasons discussed in the first section of this essay, however, it seems likely
that such tracking will be widespread by 2025.

   7. Body-Worn Video.

   The Evidence. Inexpensive body-worn video (BWV) cameras with long-running
batteries came on the market around 2010. As a student in the Cambridge Police
Executive Program, Police Chief Tony Farrar of Rialto, California, decided to
test the hypothesis that police officers wearing BWV would generate fewer
complaints from encounters with  [*415]  citizens. One theory is that officers
would be more polite and compliant with rules knowing that every word and action
was on digital record. The other theory states exactly the same for citizens
encountering police. In a randomized controlled trial of police shifts in which
all patrol officers either did or did not wear the cameras, Farrar (2013) found
initial evidence of fewer complaints on shifts when officers wore their BWV
devices. Given spillover diffusion effects to shifts when officers did not wear
cameras, it was no surprise that total complaints against police dropped
sharply. Related hypotheses can be tested in this design for the rates at which
arrestees plead guilty as charged or the rates at which either citizens or
police are injured in their encounters. Note that this evidence is a prime
example of testing a means of tracking police performance as distinct from
testing the effects of performance itself. It asks whether tracking has benefits
regardless of what police do and whether tracking improves police quality.

   What Police Do. BWV is at a very early stage of development in policing. One
UK agency tried to incorporate it into stop-and-question procedures, but
citizens who were stopped refused to answer questions while police had their
cameras on. A large Australian police agency has had problems with equipment
failures. What no agency appears to have tried is the use of BWV to replace
typing, with video-recorded crime reports, victim and investigative interviews,
and other work. Such use of videos could keep police out of stations typing up
text for many hours when they could be on patrol taking video statements as well
as increasing patrol visibility. In the United Kingdom's ongoing effort to "cut
red tape" and reduce reports, no solution could be easier or more elegant than
downloading police video and audio as a digital logbook. If text reports need to
be created for any reason, including prosecution, then civilian video
specialists can do that rather than police trained to patrol, prevent, and
investigate.

D. Summary: Knowledge and Its Use

   The examples offered above support a key conclusion: there has been a massive
growth of policing knowledge over the levels in 1975. Equally important is a
second conclusion: there has been less progress in using knowledge than in
generating it. But the crude (and perhaps inaccurate) measures of evidence in
practice fail to suggest what may be the most important point: that police
interest in using evidence grew most rapidly in the last decade before 2012.
Even though the 1980s  [*416]  was the most intense period for producing police
research, the 2000s and 2010s were the most intense periods for consuming it. If
the demand for evidence continues to grow, so may the future production of
evidence.

   III. Improving Triple-T: Targeting, Testing, and Tracking

This section highlights the major conceptual issues that must be addressed for
policing to use evidence in a fully professional way. These issues all relate to
the way in which the concept of evidence is defined. The greatest threat to
police professionalism is that the word "evidence" will be hijacked to mean what
it is intended to replace: intuition, anecdote, and opinion. Just because a word
is fashionable does not mean that people who use it will understand it, let
alone accept it and agree with its message. Even with the best of intentions,
the word "evidence" is often applied incorrectly by people who lack adequate
training in how evidence should be used. This risk requires that police leaders
and scholars pay close attention to the integrity of the concept and
relentlessly challenge any claims that "the evidence shows" when no such
evidence exists.

   This threat has major implications for how police training and promotion
processes teach and communicate about evidence-based practices. Simple lists of
"best practices" may have great value in some contexts. But for people sitting
at conference tables deciding on what best practices they should adopt,
simplicity is not good enough. Policing is a complex enterprise, and so is
drawing conclusions from evidence. People analyzing evidence need to be
qualified to do so, one way or another. At minimum, they should understand the
concepts presented in this section.

   It is reassuring that these same conceptual issues bedevil other complex
enterprises as well. There is nothing wrong with police thinking about evidence
that is not also wrong with the thinking of highly seasoned politicians
(Issenberg 2012), baseball managers (Lewis 2003), and nuclear power plant
engineers (Silver 2012, chap. 5). As Kahneman (2011) demonstrates, it is very
hard for humans to discipline their thinking away from intuitive snap judgments
("system I") to accept more systematic analyses that follow strict rules of
evidence ("system II"). Fortunately, he concludes that it is at least possible
for humans to achieve that discipline, but only if we work pretty hard at it.

    [*417]  This section considers four questions. Most important is the
question of what good evidence is, and what it means to make policing
"evidence-based." The other three questions cover related issues in targeting,
testing, and tracking. The targeting subsection introduces the concept of a
crime harm index as the best way to measure what matters in valuing police
effectiveness. The testing subsection shows how testing is increasingly done by
"pracademics," not just academics. The tracking subsection discusses how to use
evidence for ensuring better implementation of evidence-based policies.

A. What Is Good Evidence?

   What is "good evidence"? This question must be addressed almost daily if
policing is to raise its level of professionalism. Even among those strongly
committed to using good evidence, it is easy to lose the core principles of
testing.

   At an early meeting of the Society of Evidence-Based Policing, for example, a
presentation led a session chair to endorse an innovation in taking witness
statements that had just been described by two presenters. One speaker described
laboratory tests of the new procedure, while the other speaker described its use
in ( just) three cases in the field. No controlled field test had been
conducted, nor any test measuring the key outcome of conviction rates. Yet on
the basis of the strong results of the lab experiments, the session chair
enthusiastically described the research as "really strong" evidence and
suggested that it was unethical for police at the conference not to adopt the
innovation. I felt compelled to challenge that claim by pointing out the major
difference between laboratory and field tests. I noted that "evidence-based
medicine" limits its definition of evidence to field tests only, viewing lab
tests as a necessary precursor to testing treatments on real people. In this
police context, this means that the proper channel for the enthusiasm we all
felt for the innovation would be to conduct a randomized field experiment, which
had not yet been done. The session chair readily accepted this amendment to his
initial conclusion. Yet few advocates of new ideas would be so open-minded as
the session chair, who is widely seen as one of the most promising police
leaders in Britain. It is people like him who will make a key difference in how
well evidence is understood, used, and defined.

   In science, as in law, "evidence" is an objective finding that can be
confirmed by repeated observations of independent observers and that  [*418]
can help to support a conclusion. Most people, as philosopher David Hume (1748)
observed, find great difficulty in accepting that their own subjective
impressions, hunches, prejudices, theories, or opinions are not objective
evidence. As the late Senator Daniel P. Moynihan observed, "the plural of
anecdote is not data." The rules of science and statistics require many complex
procedures and conceptual tests in order to establish that evidence is reliable,
including probability sampling, causal inference, selection bias, statistical
power, confidence intervals, and many other challenges to deciding what is a
"fact"--let alone whether the known facts can support a conclusion. The US
Supreme Court in Daubert v. Merrell Dow (509 U.S. 579 [1993]) codified these
principles into federal court procedures for admitting scientific evidence of
all kinds.

   At a more advanced level of understanding, the challenge is grasping the full
breadth of decision-making processes for which good evidence is
essential--including but not limited to targeting, testing, or tracking. To some
critics, "evidence" is only about testing, or even just about randomized
controlled trials. To baseball fans familiar with the Moneyball story of the
Oakland Athletics team (Lewis 2003), it is all about targeting: hiring the most
cost-effective baseball players by replacing experienced baseball scouts with
computer geeks. To some observers of President Obama's "victory lab" (Issenberg
2012), better evidence means replacing intuitive political "gurus" with
computerized "geeks" for tracking the delivery of more favorable voters to the
polls.

   These partial understandings of evidence-based practice converge on a single
"straw man" caricature: that quantitative thinking beats--and should
replace--qualitative judgment. Nothing could be further from the truth. As the
doctors who helped develop evidence-based medicine argued, the best evidence is
a blend of individual clinical experience with the best quantitative and
qualitative "external" evidence: research findings and experience about similar
cases or problems (Sackett et al. 1996). As baseball statistician Nate Silver
(2012, p. 100) observed, two baseball players could have identical statistics,
but one could spend his evenings volunteering at a homeless shelter while the
other is snorting cocaine in nightclubs. He writes that "there is probably no
way to quantify this distinction. But you'd sure as hell want to take it into
account."

   Similarly, if a police commander knows that a robbery hot spot has developed
in a racially tense minority area (targeting) and that the  [*419]  average
effect of doubling police patrols in robbery hot spots is to cut robbery 50
percent (testing), that is not enough evidence for a good decision. The
commander would also think of many other qualitative factors, such as the recent
or long history of police-community relations in that area, the extent to which
stop-and-frisk would be used, the likely weather or school vacations, the
availability of minority group officers to work in the area, and the track
record or personality of a sergeant who would directly supervise any effort to
double patrols. The commander might also wish to consult with neighborhood
leaders on how best to bring in more patrols, perhaps with a handout flyer for
police to give everyone they encounter on the streets--a practice for which
there is experimental evidence from Australia (Mazerolle et al. 2013).

   Evidence-based practice does not and cannot replace judgment based on
experience. It can only inform such judgment, and usually improve it. Attempts
to portray EBP as trying to replace rather than supplement experience (Sparrow
2011) are merely "noise" in relation to the signal. Not even baseball teams, as
Silver (2012, pp. 105-6) points out, replaced qualitative scouts with
quantitative geeks after the events depicted in Moneyball (Lewis 2003). Instead,
baseball teams increased their investments in both, integrating qualitative and
quantitative information supported by a profession-led science (see Weisburd and
Neyroud 2011).

   The body of knowledge supporting EBP embraces and incorporates police
experience and craft skills. It does not replace traditional thinking about
legality, legitimacy, and common sense. Nor does it replace the wisdom and
experience of police professionals. What it adds to these assets is the crucial
step of an objectivity check about questions that have often been answered on
the basis of subjective opinions (Sherman 1998): is there any systematic,
scientifically generated evidence that bears on the decisions we are about to
make? Moreover, is the evidence the right kind of evidence for the decision?

   While the meaning of the phrase "what works in policing" may seem obvious, it
is not. Whether a prediction model "works" simply means whether its predictions
are accurate; no randomized controlled experiment is needed. Whether GPS works
to track police locations accurately is simply a matter of auditing by physical
tests: there is no cause and effect relationship, just measurement reliability.
Whether arrest for domestic violence works, however, is a matter of testing for
cause and  [*420]  effect. This means that in a controlled experiment, cases in
which police made arrests would have to have had less repeat offending than in
cases in which police did not make arrests. That is why the Maryland Scale of
Scientific Methods, levels 1-5 (Sherman et al. 1998), is relevant to testing
police actions in triple-T but not to assessing the accuracy of predictions for
police targeting decisions. The Maryland scale is also irrelevant for audits,
measures, and descriptions intended for tracking police performance. The best
evidence for answering any question of "what works" thus depends on "which T?"

   Table 1 summarizes the different standards for good evidence of "what works"
for the three different Ts. The left-hand column shows three different levels of
strength of evidence, combining several key dimensions: replications of evidence
collection (for measurement reliability), consistency of findings (for content
reliability), and--only in the case of testing--the capacity of the research
design to rule out other causes besides the police practice being tested. These
standards are certainly subject to debate. But perhaps the bare minimum,
rock-bottom standard for EBP is this: a comparison group is essential to every
test to be included as "evidence" that a police decision causes a certain
result. That was the standard used for reporting on evidence to the US Congress
(Sherman 1998), and the global police profession should arguably have standards
that are at least as high or higher.

   These distinctions illustrate the need for police professionals to raise
their game in mastering the (scientific) rules of evidence. What follows is an
overview of some of the key issues and of my ideas for addressing them. Further
readings of the sources cited would be useful for anyone who proposes to use or,
especially, produce evidence for policing.

B. Issues in Targeting Resources

   The targeting of scarce resources can be compared to an investment portfolio.
Like police agencies, investors have a variety of objectives, such as growth,
income, and security. Like police, investors make a variety of investments to
accomplish different objectives. Like police, investors face an endless array of
choices about how to invest scarce resources. But investors have one great
advantage over police that makes the investors' job much easier: a common
currency. Police can have a common currency as well, but only if they create it.

   This subsection starts by describing a way in which police can guide
targeting decisions with a common currency of return on investment.  [*422]  It
then shows how different methods of predicting returns of investment in that
currency will produce much higher or lower rates of error in making targeting
decisions, including the new decision tool called "predictive policing," as well
as the neglected tool called "solvability factors." TABLE 1 "Good Evidence"
Scales for Different Kinds of Police Decisions: Criteria for Strength of
Evidence

   1. A Crime Harm Index. The biggest obstacle to reducing crime may be the
misleading way in which it is counted: as a raw summation of all crimes,
regardless of any differences in public views of the seriousness of harm across
crime categories (Rossi et al. 1974). From Washington to London to Delhi,
governments earnestly report whether there were more "crimes" this year than
last. This count of the crime total treats every crime as equal.

   All crimes are not created equal. Some crimes cause horrible injuries and
deaths. Others cause scant meaningful harm to anyone, such as possessing a
1-inch joint of marijuana. Crime counts are dominated by such high-volume but
minor crimes as shoplifting from large chain stores. In England and Wales, only
10 percent of reported crimes in the 12 months to October 2012 included injury
or a sex offense. Yet public officials are pleased to report "success" when
total crime drops and displeased when total crime counts rise--even if murders,
rapes, and serious woundings stay constant. If EBP accepts this "fungibility
fallacy" that all crimes are equal, its value will be greatly restricted.

   Police professionals are acutely sensitive to the idea that the weight of
harm from crime matters more than a raw count of incidents (Sherman 2011a). They
know that a car theft is less harmful than a rape, that a £ 5,000 fraud is less
harmful than a stabbing. What they lack is a way to account for these
differences in combination across all crimes. This would allow police to know
whether total harm from crime in one city is higher this year than last, higher
in this part of town than that, or with this offender's record compared to that
one's.

   The best way to compile meaningful "evidence" about reported crime is to give
each type of crime a weight that represents how harmful each type of crime is.
Combining crime in this way would create what statisticians call an "index,"
yielding a single bottom line. The weight can be based on a variety of metrics.
The simplest metric would be taken from any sentencing guideline recommendations
of the number of days in prison for a first offender convicted of that offense.
This would give an approximation of the "pure" weight of harm of the offense
itself in contrast to the actual sentence length an offender may  [*423]
receive--the latter being influenced by the number of prior convictions of the
offender.

   Summing the total weight for each type of any indicator (such as crime
types), then adding the subtotal weights together, is the basis for a commonly
used method of constructing an "index" of multiple indicators. A consumer price
index (CPI), for example, takes the cost of consumer goods in different
categories (food, housing, transportation) and then assigns a weight to those
costs based on the average household's budget proportions for each category. If
housing costs rise 10 percent but housing is only 33 percent of the family's
budget, then the housing increase of 10 percent becomes a 3.3 percent increase
in the total CPI. Similarly, a crime harm index (CHI) is a tool for creating
just such a bottom line for the harm caused by crime (Sherman 2007, 2010,
2011a).

   Weighting crimes on the basis of sentencing guidelines can be justified on
good democratic grounds as reflecting the will of the people. Almost every
sentencing guideline process in the United States and United Kingdom has
reflected awareness of opinion polls, debates, and scrutiny by elected officials
and news media. The scrutiny may not have been perfect. Yet it remains far
closer to the will of the people than any theoretical or even empirical system
of weighting that academics might develop. Most important, it is readily
available to be applied to any set of crimes, whether for an individual, a
community, or a nation.

   Any police agency or government can construct its own index with the
following seven steps:


     1. counting up the number of crimes of each type in an area (or for
     one offender);
     2. multiplying the count for each type by the median number of prison
     days recommended for crimes of that type by first offenders;
     3. calling the product of that multiplication (crime count for a crime
     type x median days in prison) the HST for the crime type (for harm
     subtotal of days of prison for that offense type);
     4. repeating steps 1, 2, and 3 for every type of crime recorded for
     the area or person;
     5. summing up all HSTs to yield the total crime harm (TCH);
     6. creating a standardized CHI for any area or population by dividing
     the estimated population size into the TCH to yield the  [*424]  CHI
     in that time period for that area (where population size estimates
     should ideally include the average daily transient counts, such as
     [adjusted] arrivals minus departures by train and bus);
     7. creating a standardized CHI for any individual offender by dividing
     the person's TCH by the number of years the person has been at risk of
     committing crime as an adult (usually since age 18), either removing
     days in prison or not, depending on data availability.

   As an example of how a CHI works, consider a community (or an offender) with
100 crimes in the record. Assume that the recommended sentence for a shoplifting
crime is 1 day in prison and that the recommended sentence for a first
manslaughter is 10 years in prison, or 3,650 days. If all 100 crimes are
shoplifting cases, the CHI value of those 100 crimes would be 100 days. If all
100 crimes are manslaughter cases, then the CHI value would be 10 x 3,650 p
36,500. In both cases the crime count is 100, but the range of CHI varies from
100 in the first example to 36,500 in the second. Which would tell voters more
about how safe or dangerous their community is? By creating a more sensitive
bottom line, a CHI can show much more transparently whether the harm from crime
is higher or lower depending on the exact nature of the crimes.

   To translate a CHI into an overall targeting plan, police leaders can simply
use a checklist of possible targets to pick one or more ways of organizing a
resource targeting strategy. Such a strategy can be based on hot spot places,
convicted offenders, repeat victims, crime "recruiters" (see below), criminal
networks, predicted crime patterns, times of day, days of the week, situations,
or crime types. Any of these will do, as long as the analysis is comprehensive.
That is, a CHI analysis of all of these units should encompass 100 percent of
the CHI for the entire jurisdiction.

   Perhaps the greatest value of a CHI would be in using it to forecast how much
harm an individual offender, suspect, or defendant is likely to cause in the
next 2 years. Such forecasts can help guide the massive use of police discretion
to divert cases from prosecution into out-of-court penalties--constituting some
50 percent of all nontraffic penalties in England and Wales (Judge 2010). The
legitimacy of policing could be enhanced by using these forecasts to reduce the
risk of releasing a very dangerous offender who may, for example, soon murder
[*425]  someone. Such forecasting can provide missing evidence for the existing
system of "triage" in allocating scarce tax revenues for maximum public benefit.

   The triage of targeting police resources embraces all police services. Better
evidence can make the likely consequences of these hard choices clearer to those
who must make them. A standard metric, such as a CHI, for predicting the benefit
of one choice over another can make such evidence much easier to apply in
practice.

   2. Good and Bad Predictions--or Forecasts. No matter what currency police use
to target police resources, the evidence they need to make good decisions is a
reliable forecast of future events. They may prefer to have a prediction, but
predictions are far less reliable than forecasts. The difference between a
forecast and a prediction is crucial, as the scientists who study earthquakes
know to their cost. Silver (2012, p. 149) reports that in seismology,


     1. a prediction is a definitive and specific statement about when and
     where an earthquake will strike: a major earthquake will hit Kyoto,
     Japan on June 28.
     2. a forecast is a probabilistic statement, usually over a longer time
     scale: there is a 60 percent chance of an earthquake in Southern
     California over the next thirty years.


Silver notes that the official position of the US Geological Survey (USGS) is
that earthquakes can be forecasted, but they cannot be predicted.

   Much the same can be said about evidence-based police targeting: it employs
forecasting, not precise predictions, about when and where crimes are likely to
occur. In the first published analysis of crime across every address in an
entire city, for example, there were many instances in which there was a 100
percent chance of crime at a specific address every 10 days (Sherman, Gartin,
and Buerger 1989). What the analysis did not do is to name a time and date when
the next robbery would occur at a specific place--nor the name of the robber(s)
or the victim( s). This same approach allowed Weisburd, Groff, and Yang (2012)
to undertake their remarkable forecasting of crimes over every street segment in
Seattle for a 16-year period. This work, for the first time, identified
different trajectories of crime by place, showing most kinds of places to have
highly stable levels of crime (high, medium, or low), while others were highly
variable.

    [*426]  Most crime forecasting takes the form of projecting the future on
the basis of the past, or what might be called "post-casting" based on long time
periods with stable estimates of risk. The time periods used to make a forecast
this way can be 1-15 years; the future time window in which the forecast applies
could be 6 months or a year. These forecasts have high levels of accuracy but
low levels of precision: they cannot tell police exactly where and when the next
crime will occur.

   A newer approach may offer both precision and accuracy, at least for
high-volume crime types. It uses more short-term analysis of changing crime
patterns to make short-term forecasts about where crime concentrations will soon
pop up. The originators of this approach, Bowers, Johnson, and Pease (2004),
developed ways to forecast the location of burglary hot spots before they had
even developed. Yet the method remained within the definition of a forecast
rather than claiming to predict the exact date, time, and location of each
crime.

   By 2010, a new tool for targeting claimed to offer far more exact
predictions. PredPol, the predictive policing company, sells police agencies
proprietary software that identifies extremely tight bounding of time and place
in which crime is predicted to occur. A New York Times story on the Santa Cruz
field test reported the following: "Based on models for predicting aftershocks
from earthquakes, [our equation] generates projections about which areas and
windows of time are at highest risk for future crimes by analyzing and detecting
patterns in years of past crime data. The projections are recalibrated daily, as
new crimes occur and updated data is fed into the program" (Goode 2011). The
fact that the USGS says that accurate earthquake prediction is not even possible
provides little comfort for PredPol's reliance on earthquake models. At this
writing no evidence is available for the accuracy of the forecasts or the crime
reduction benefits of using them. But if such predictions do prove to have high
reliability, they could make the targeting of police resources more valuable
than ever.

   What all these approaches offer, at least in principle, are empirical tests
of the accuracy of the forecasts. The evolution of evidence-based policing will
draw increasing attention to the results of those tests and no doubt compare
crime predictions in ways similar to Silver's (2012) own comparisons of election
forecasting by different polling companies. The bright line for evidence-based
targeting lies not between forecasting and prediction but between quantitative
methods and subjective judgments--also known as informed "guessing."

    [*427]  a. Three Methods of Targeting. There are three basic ways to make
statements about future harm, whether predictions or forecasts: subjective or
"clinical" methods, a checklist of tested factors, and "supercomputer" data
mining based on large sample sizes.

   By far the most common method is the subjective, intuitive, system I approach
based on experience with similar situations (Kahneman 2011). The second method
is a "checklist" approach that moves past experience from qualitative to
quantitative analysis. It translates prior experience into a more systematic
"algorithm" (the word statisticians prefer for a formula or equation) based on a
few consistent criteria, forcing the forecaster to answer a checklist of
weighted questions to make decisions about predictive factors found in large
samples of previous cases. Crime solvability factors (Eck 1979) provide an
example of the checklist approach. The third method requires the use of a
supercomputer performing massive calculations about each individual case in
relation to tens of thousands of similar but slightly different cases. Developed
initially by meteorologists, such "data-mining" predictions use massive amounts
of data on previous events to predict future events. It is especially useful in
forecasting very rare events, such as hurricanes or homicides.

   The primary published example of data mining in crime forecasting is the
classification of likely murderers with huge samples of previous cases: over
30,000 in Philadelphia (Berk et al. 2009) and 100,000 in England and Wales
(Sherman, Cosma, and Neyroud 2012). Like weather forecasting, individual
forecasting of crime risks uses the recent growth in supercomputers to find
highly specific combinations of predictors that raise the odds of fairly rare
events occurring. The Philadelphia forecast identifies the offenders on
probation who are most likely to be among the 2 percent of offenders on
probation who are charged with murder 75 times more often than the 60 percent of
probationers who are classified as low risk. The England and Wales models can
correctly classify low-risk offenders with 96 percent accuracy, or 4 percent
error in forecasting that they will not be convicted of a serious crime
(Sherman, Cosma, and Neyroud 2012).

   b. Clinical versus Statistical Predictions. Since at least the advent of
Freudian theory, professionals such as psychiatrists have been paid well to make
predictions about human behavior. These predictions have been based on detailed
analysis of an individual's personality and previous behavior. The method has
been highly respected. It is still used  [*428]  widely to decide whether
violent people are insane or criminally responsible for their conduct. Many
police agencies also use it to screen police recruits for mental health.

   Since the advent of mechanical calculators, a far less expensive approach to
prediction has been used by institutions dealing with large volumes of
decisions. From insurance companies to university admissions offices, decisions
have been made on the basis of classifying people by their numbers: how many
accidents, how high a test score, what average grades, how many speeding
violations, and so on. These characteristics can be recorded at much lower
expense than the cost of having a professional personality assessment, while
making exactly the same kind of predictions.

   Until Meehl's (1954) comparison of these inexpensive statistical methods to
the expensive clinical methods, no one had ever shown which method is more
accurate. Since then, no research has ever contradicted his central conclusion.
What Meehl found was that statistically validated predictions were always either
more accurate than clinical prediction or--at worst--just as good, at a much
lower cost. His book reviewed over 20 studies comparing subjective judgments of
trained professionals to rather modest combinations of numerical information
about the same people, organized according to a rule. Such rules are called
algorithms. The statistical predictions based on algorithms in Meehl's
comparison were very simple by modern standards, without extensive analysis.
Nonetheless, they usually did better than predictions made on the same cases
based only on open-ended interviews. Over 200 comparisons have now tested
Meehl's conclusions on a wide range of behaviors and phenomena. In some 60
percent of comparisons, statistical forecasting does much better than clinical.
In the rest, there is little difference, but statistics remain cheaper than
qualitative data for the same accuracy rate (Kahneman 2011, p. 223). There is no
convincing case in which clinical forecasting has beaten statistical forecasts.

   Until recently this debate had no relevance to policing since police made
little use of either kind of prediction in targeting their resources. Yet by the
early twenty-first century, police on both sides of the Atlantic had invested in
clinical prediction rather than in statistical forecasting. UK police developed
national policies for clinical prediction of serious domestic violence cases, as
well as risk assessments for sex offenders and other serious criminals. In the
United States, problem-oriented  [*429]  policing picked targets more
subjectively than systematically (Goldstein 1990). UK police employed entirely
subjective criteria for determining which people released from prison were
dangerous enough to justify an expensive Multi-Agency Public Protection
Agreement for preventing serious crime.

   The cost of subjective methods of crime forecasting often becomes apparent
when they are audited against what really happens. An analysis of cases of
domestic murder or attempted murder in one major UK police force did not find
one case of serious injury committed by someone who was on the list of dangerous
people; the lists of thousands of "dangerous" people had excluded all of the
fewer than 100 actual attackers (Thornton 2011). Some might say that proves the
success of the monitoring program; other might see it as evidence of vast
overprediction. Most important, there had been no investment in preventing the
attacks that ultimately occurred.

   3. Solvability Factors. In principle, evidence-based solvability factors
could substantially increase detection rates (Eck 1979). At minimum, their use
could achieve the same detection rates but at much lower cost. This approach
offers a major opportunity for evidence-based targeting. Yet it lacks a crucial
piece of evidence that is needed to recommend their widespread adoption.

The most important new evidence about statistical solvability factors would be a
randomized trial comparing the overall detection rates of a team of detectives
using tested solvability factors to target cases for investigation to those of a
team using unstructured discretion to target cases. By randomly assigning all
incoming cases to one or the other of the two teams, the experiment would yield
a valid estimate of using one system or the other. Even better, such an
experiment could use a CHI to weight the value of the cases in the two teams
resulting in prosecution. This would create an incentive for the investigators
to use harm weightings in combination with solvability factors to decide which
cases to investigate. The investigative results could then be compared by both
the CHI weight of the crimes solved and the criminal record of the criminals
accused.

C. Issues in Testing for Outcomes

   Evidence-based policing requires a clear understanding of the difference
between "trying" and "testing." Many police agencies say they have "evidence"
that a police practice "works" because they have  [*430]  "tried" it. Yet in
most cases, there is no good evidence gained from "piloting" a new practice or
"trying it out." The minimal standards of evidence from the kind of test that
should be used to guide policy require direct measurement of outputs and
outcomes and direct comparison of those outcomes with a control group's
outcomes. There is no better example than the case of the free chocolate.

   1. Trying versus Testing: The Chocolate Case. The Dorset (UK) police tried a
very interesting idea in Bournemouth in the early twenty-first century, when all
pubs still closed at 11:00 p.m. sharp. What happened between 11:00 and midnight
each evening was reportedly a big spike in the hourly number of fights. Many
fights happened while people were waiting in line at fish and chips shops,
hungry for their first food after drinking beer for 5 or 6 hours. A creative
police leader reasoned that this pattern--or problem, as Goldstein (1979)
defined it--was caused by low blood sugar, making people more irritable. The
Dorset police then tried handing out free chocolates to people waiting in line
for their takeaway food. Media reports at the time quoted police saying the idea
"worked."

   This brilliant idea appears, however, never to have been tested at the
standard required by evidence-based policing. I found no report of any counts of
fights between 11:00 and midnight, either before or after the free chocolate
policy. The first standard of a scientific test is that there be consistently
defined and reliable measurement of both the problem to be solved--fights, in
this case--and the solution itself--in this case, chocolate. As a public health
doctor might ask, what was the dosage of chocolate handed out? How many
individuals took the chocolate? How many ate it? How many nights a week was the
chocolate handed out? Was it handed out equally at every fish and chips shop? If
not, were there fewer fights where there was more chocolate? Over a long enough
time period to constitute a statistically "powerful" test, by what percentage
did the average number of fights in Bournemouth between 11:00 and midnight go
down?

   Even if all those questions of measurement were answered, however, there
would still be no assurance that the chocolates had "worked" unless the second
standard of a test were to be met: a fair comparison to a control group that did
not receive the free chocolates. A control group could be selected from the
central entertainment area of a similar city nearby, which would constitute a
"level 3" test on the Maryland Scale of Scientific Methods (Sherman et al.
1998), the minimum level  [*431]  recommended for evidence on which to base
policy. Even better would have been the identification of 100 fish and chips
shops in Dorset's entertainment areas in multiple cities and towns, with 50 of
them selected at random for the free chocolate treatment.

   The distinction between "trying" and "testing" has become increasingly clear
to police leaders, if not the rank and file, in the United States and United
Kingdom over the past four decades. Yet the absolute comprehension level remains
low. It is hard to teach these concepts to senior police leaders in a short
conversation, even though they now feel obliged to discuss them as if they
understand them perfectly. The concept of testing has not, until recently, been
a part of police training, for leaders or street officers. But since 1996, the
Cambridge University Institute of Criminology has been teaching these ideas to a
large proportion of all the leaders who became chief constables. The success of
that teaching has been far from perfect. But it is no accident that the UK
police leadership spends far more time talking about the evidence for policies
than US police leaders do.

   What may work better than training is to have a much greater volume of
experiments going on in police agencies than ever before. Since 2010, this has
been happening in the United Kingdom if not in the United States. The downside
of this development may be less rigor and care in the conduct of experiments,
for reasons discussed below. These problems may be outweighed, however, by the
increased awareness they promote of the difference between trying and testing:
between evidence-free and evidence-based policing.

   2. What Works: Testing Practices, Using Tests. There are two ways for police
to find out whether a specific police practice is effective. One is to have
someone look for relevant evidence in the growing police research repositories
(see the Appendix). The other is for police to conduct tests in their own
agencies.

   In an ideal world, there would be so many tests of police services (as there
are of medical services) that EBP would operate primarily by "looking up" tests
rather than doing them. The EBP Matrix (Lum, Koper, and Telep 2010) and other
tools already make it easy to do this. Other tools for easy "lookups" are under
development, some of them designed for access via smart phones. The College of
Policing may even develop the ideas of computerized medicine for instant access
to relevant evidence (Hafner 2012).

   In the foreseeable future, however, many expensive police services  [*432]
will remain untested. The costs of conducting tests are minimal in comparison to
the costs of delivering untested services. And every time a police agency
contributes a high-quality cost-effectiveness test to the global police
literature, the entire world will gain.

   Unlike such agencies as the UK National Health Service, police are not yet
required to have randomized trials justify large portions of the police budget.
But it would be major progress if at least 10 or 20 percent of a police
operating budget could be based on good evidence. The most relevant question for
any police leader is, "which of our services is so expensive and of such
doubtful value that it is worthwhile to do our own local randomized controlled
trial?"

   a. Generalizability of Evidence. There is also a scientific question of how
reliably research in one police agency (or more) will predict effectiveness in
any other agency. The present state of science cannot say whether one, 10, or
even 20 strong tests are enough to generalize to all democracies, or even across
the country where the tests were done. This problem is confounded by the wide
range of results reported in such systematic reviews as the meta-analysis of the
effects of hot spot policing (Braga, Papachristos, and Hureau 2012). While the
average effect is beneficial, the range of effects is very great. Whether
another agency implementing some form of hot spot policing will achieve a large
or small effect remains highly uncertain from the available research.

   The external validity of results is also challenged by the wide variety of
practices tested, even under a common rubric like "hot spots policing." The
range of specific police methods of policing included in that review is almost
as great as the range of effect sizes (Braga, Papachristos, and Hureau 2012).
While the review is nonetheless a major contribution to the literature, the wide
range of research designs unavoidably strains the scientific definition of
"replication" on which the statistical procedures are premised. For example,
while the hot spot review found 11 randomized trials of hot spot policing (and
more have been finished since), only one of them tested a substantial increase
in marked car patrols in street corner hot spots. Other designs are of interest.
But for a police leader considering a 100 percent increase in hot spot patrols
at street corners, any other design is a different research question.

   For the foreseeable future, the best evidence on outcomes police agencies can
get will come from conducting their own experiments.  [*433]  Most readers may
wonder whether that idea is feasible or is a fantasy. The answer depends
entirely on who does the experiments: who designs them, leads them, and analyzes
them. Those tasks have been the traditional domain of police scholars, with
police practitioners as their partners. Yet a rapidly growing appetite for good
evidence will soon swamp the available numbers of experimental criminologists
unless they reinvent their partnerships with policing.

   b. Who Shall Test: The Police Themselves? From 1970 until 2010, police
testing was largely orchestrated by academics in universities who had found
police chiefs to partner with them. The experiments typically involved large
grants from foundations or national governments' research agencies (US National
Institute of Justice, UK Home Office, Australian Research Council). These grants
usually provided for well-trained and closely supervised doctoral students to
work with police in the delivery and measurement of the experimental variables,
ensuring independent quality control and monitoring of the data collection.
Senior academics would then analyze the data and write the report. Since the
number of academics interested in doing all this work was limited, the maximum
number of experiments was limited by human resources as much as by the tiny
overall funding stream for such experiments.

   Since around 2010, both funding and leadership barriers have started to fall.
Funding has been increasingly provided by police agencies, subsidized by
universities teaching police executives. The leadership of police experiments
has been moving from professors to "pracademics," as police
practitioner-academics increasingly describe themselves (e.g., Mitchell 2012).
While professional research scientists still play a strong role in designing and
analyzing police experiments, more of the massive labor of organizing people to
deliver good experiments is being shouldered by experienced police (e.g., Telep,
Mitchell, and Weisburd 2012). Many pracademics are launched on a path to earn a
doctoral degree, some in midcareer and some retired after 30 years in policing.
Whatever their background, they are rapidly increasing the numbers of people who
can produce good evidence on policing.

   This change is especially visible in the United Kingdom, where Cambridge
graduates form a critical mass to pioneer the new model for testing police
practices. This model has made possible a far greater volume of experimentation
because police officers from sergeant to police chief have designed and
delivered their own experiments. This  [*434]  benefit must be weighed against
important issues of quality control in the integrity of the random assignment,
the measures of outcomes, and other important issues. Even innovative solutions
like an online "randomizer" (Ariel, Vila, and Sherman 2012) may pose surprising
errors unless the experiment is closely monitored by a site manager (Neyroud and
Slothower 2013).

D. Issues in Tracking Police Outputs and Outcomes

   Three key issues shape the growth of tracking police outputs and outcomes.
One is how police leaders measure what police officers do. A second is how they
compare measures of performance across officers and units. The third is how they
use tracking data to deliver better policing by evidence-based management.

   1. Measuring What Police Do. For all the progress that COMPSTAT has brought
policing, it is striking how little measurement it has used of what police do.
In 1999-2005, for example, the Philadelphia Police Department's COMPSTAT never
reviewed data on where police patrolled, where they made arrests, where they
conducted stop-and-frisks, or even how many police were scheduled to work by
time or day in relation to the hourly frequency of crime in any police district.
In social science terms, COMPSTAT was a discussion of dependent variables
without any review of independent variables. They discussed crime patterns
endlessly each week, with rarely any evidence on policing.

   Since then, technologies such as GPS have made such measurement even easier.
All that is required is a commitment to tracking policing along with crime and
an investment in information technology to produce the data and graphics.
Mapping police presence in relation to crime harm, for example, would produce an
algorithm that could identify outliers. Wherever a patrol district deployed its
patrols (or arrests) in too great a departure from the occurrence of crime, a
list of such "exceptions" can be generated for police managers. If they fail to
correct the discrepancies, the lists can be reviewed in aggregate at COMPSTAT
meetings.

   2. Comparing Police Performance. One reason police activity is undermeasured
may be the risk of making inappropriate comparisons with disciplinary
implications. The number of arrests per officer, for example, is likely to be
much higher in certain areas than in others, if only because there is more crime
per square foot in some areas. Yet  [*435]  there are many ways to adjust for
these differences in order to create fair comparisons across officers and units.

   The critical tool for fair comparisons is a risk model for each policing area
. Such a model can be computed on the basis of any large sample, such as the
hundreds of local policing areas in England and Wales. The models can address
both police outputs and outcomes. Using social, economic, and demographic data,
the models can forecast how much work police will be asked to do reactively by
citizens and how much work they may choose to initiate proactively in relation
to social conditions. The models can estimate how many calls will be dispatched,
how many arrests may be made, and even how much force police will use with how
much injury to citizens and police.

   Once a risk model is found to be reliable in forecasting outputs or outcomes,
it can detect major changes in delivery of those measures over what was
predicted. If police produce more proactive work than predicted or less, the
model can say so. This could be done in a way that could confirm or disprove the
success of an area commander in delivering specific changes in police patrols,
arrests, problems solved, or any objective for police outputs.

   The greatest benefit of a fair comparisons model would be to link changes in
outputs to changes in crime harm (CHI). Within a range of error, these models
can forecast the likely CHI (or CHI per capita) in each area for each year. If a
change in outputs appears linked to changes in CHI outcomes, then police leaders
can begin to develop skill in relating these two tools at a strategic level. In
contrast, if there is no change in outputs but the CHI gets worse, that can be
taken as evidence of sudden changes in social conditions rather than as a
failure of policing. If police outputs worsen and the CHI rises, that can be
taken as evidence that police failures actually caused an increase in harm.

   This kind of macro-level strategic management is already the substance of
discussion in many COMPSTAT meetings. What it lacks is any kind of evidence
base. There are a few published studies, for example, of the effect of the ratio
of arrests to crime (output) on crime rates (outcome) themselves (Tittle and
Rowe 1974; Brown 1978; Chamlin 1991), but they would quickly be replaced by
current studies within large police agencies. Better evidence could lead to
better strategic decisions, with less crime harm as a result.

   3. Delivering Policing with Evidence-Based Management. The greatest  [*436]
value of measuring police performance comes from leaders taking immediate
corrective action. All too often, police leaders are flying blind about whether
policies or operations are being implemented. Tracking evidence provides
independent audits on a timely basis about whether the plans are being
delivered. If they are not, then commanders can be transferred and tighter
control can be imposed. If they are, then rewards can be given and medals can be
pinned.

   The use of tracking to focus on implementation can have major consequences.
For example, there is much controversy about whether stop-and-questioning in
minority areas reduces crime. By using tracking evidence for deciding whether
stop-and-question has been reducing robberies in minority group areas, a police
leader can ask to have stop-and-question encounters plotted against robberies.
If the answer is that very few stops have actually been done, the leader can
take stronger action to ensure that the policy is carried out. If the policy has
been delivered, the leader can ask what level of crime reduction is needed to be
cost-effective. At the same time, tracking may raise the question of police
legitimacy. Are complaints up since stops have increased? Are public surveys
needed? Should people who have been stopped be interviewed to assess their
reactions? Should training be refreshed on how to speak to suspects? Tracking
can often raise questions that would otherwise never be asked. Asking them
could, in turn, substantially improve service delivery.

   Tracking methods can even be subjected to testing for outcomes. In a Dallas
experiment, for example, Weisburd, Groff, and Yang (2012) randomly assigned GPS
information to some middle managers (and not others) showing how much time
officers were spending in their assigned hot spots. The experiment suggested
that the assignment of that information led to less crime in the high-crime hot
spots. Other experiments with tracking systems could profitably use similar
designs across police districts, across patrol beats, or even (in large police
agencies such as India's or Chile's with hundreds of police stations) across
police districts themselves.

E. Connecting the Three Ts

   Thinking of triple-T as a triangle may allow police leaders to think about
evidence in a more integrated way. Agencies can use the triangle to design
checklists of all the numbers that must be examined simultaneously in EBP. Like
the pilots who look at all the dials on the  [*437]  dashboard of a B-747
cockpit, police leaders must be aware of multiple sources of threat to smooth
performance. When all three Ts are able to be seen at once, the combined
triple-T can become a dynamic process: targets can be adjusted as crime goes
down on some targets and rises on others, tested treatments can change as the
types of targets shift, and tracking may look at different delivery indicators
as both targets and practices shift (fig. 2). No police agency stands still for
a day, let alone for a 3-year plan. Triple-T is a plan for a plan, for a
constantly updated plan, one that keeps changing as the facts change (O'Connor
2012). FIG. 2.--The dynamic process of triple-T

   Connecting the Ts may be the best response to a major challenge to EBP:
quantitatively derived conclusions are often hard to sell. When the conclusion
directly challenges conventional thinking, acceptance of evidence requires
nothing less than a culture change. This phenomenon has been observed repeatedly
in medicine (Giluk and Rynes-Weller 2012), baseball (Lewis 2003), and politics
(Issenberg 2012). Yet these cases also offer much hope that experience and
evidence can work together (Silver 2012, chap. 3). That is what can happen to
make culture change more likely to succeed. The open window may be a need to cut
budgets and to do more with less.

   By connecting policy decisions on tested services with policy decisions on
what to target, police leaders can develop a clear dialogue about hard choices.
Operational police may accuse them of "robbing Peter to pay Paul," as if all
priorities are of equal importance. But the use of evidence to make those
decisions can disprove that claim. By combining the seriousness of the harm
being targeted with the effectiveness of the police practice being considered
for a target, police leaders can compare two different choices for their likely
cost-benefit ratios. If spending $ 10,000 can yield a 25 percent reduction in
the harm  [*438]  of a robbery pattern but only a 10 percent reduction in the
harm of a burglary pattern, the better choice may seem obvious. It is not. The
key evidence in such a choice would be the absolute levels of harm associated
with the burglary pattern and the robbery pattern. Creating or using such a
metric is not routinely done in EBP--yet. But it could be the key to pulling
triple-T into a viable operating system. That key is the idea of a crime harm
index, which may ultimately be the key to sustaining EBP.

   IV. Future Prospects for Evidence in Policing


     The best way to predict your future is to create it. (Attributed to
     Abraham Lincoln)


By 2013, more people than ever before were trying to create the future of
evidence-based policing. The Society of Evidence-Based Policing had over 600
members. The new professional College of Policing had a mandate from the UK
government to develop and share "evidence on what works in policing." The George
Mason University Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy joined with the Scottish
Institute of Police Research to communicate EBP to policy makers in Washington.
Newly elected police and crime commissioners in England and Wales organized an
all-day seminar at Cambridge University to gain an introduction to the evidence
on policing. Over 75 percent of senior leaders at Scotland Yard said they had at
least heard of EBP (Stanko 2013).

   Yet the same study at Scotland Yard found that 20 percent of its leaders said
they would not change a policy if the evidence showed it did not work (Stanko
2013). Many, if not most, operational police officers remained skeptical that
research could help improve policing. Laws in the majority of US states, as of
2013, still required police to make arrests when evidence shows that they would
only increase crime rather than prevent it (Sherman 1992a). Evidence-based
policing in 2013 still had a long way to go. As Kahneman (2011) and others have
documented, our intuitive preference for "fast thinking" with an emotional
system I will always cause resistance to conclusions based on more comprehensive
"slow thinking" by our system II reasoning. Which system will win depends on a
larger cultural struggle for the "branding" of policing as a complex profession.

   For those who take Lincoln's advice seriously, it may be useful to  [*439]
suggest 10 ways to create a stronger future for using evidence in policing. The
suggestions are speculations, informed by a deep engagement in the context: the
kind of experience that is essential for making the best use of evidence. The
suggestions aim at institutional decisions as the outcomes. But they are also
aimed at the individuals whose actions can make institutions change their
policies.

   The key institutions are the College of Policing in the United Kingdom, the
state Police Officer Standards and Training Boards in the United States, the
Australian Institute for Police Management, and the Australia New Zealand
Policing Advisory Agency. These are all professionally driven institutions with
governmental funding capable of making substantial changes in the incentives and
organizational culture for better use of research evidence. Until recently they
were largely unconnected to the academic community. But the invention of a new
professional body in the cradle of Anglo-Celtic policing is committed to forging
that connection, with a working agenda for police-university relationships. It
is not impossible that professional bodies in other countries may follow suit.
Unless otherwise indicated, each suggestion below is aimed at the institutions
named above.

   1. A graduate-level education in evidence-based policing should be required
for all chief police executives. Starting at the top is a path of least
resistance from police labor organizations and an ideal first step toward a
"total evidence" strategy of the kind Scotland Yard has adopted. Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, who approved that plan, not only has a
master of business administration and a law degree but also completed the
graduate-level Cambridge Police Executive Programme that teaches evidence in
policing.

   2. A graduate-level knowledge of evidence-based policing should be required
for all police managers at ranks equivalent to chief inspectors in UK policing
and captains in the New York or Los Angeles police. An early second step toward
a culture of evidence in policing would be to focus ambitious officers on the
first major step to police command. Knowing that research evidence is constantly
growing could foster a habit of keeping up, a habit that may continue even after
completing a degree or taking an exam, or doing whatever is established as the
requirement for promotion to that level. Most important may be the substantial
impact this requirement would have on the demand for graduate education.

   3. Promotion to first-line supervision (e.g., sergeant) should be based in
equal parts on knowledge of the law and of the evidence on what works in  [*440]
policing. Perhaps some time after the first two suggestions are adopted, a
cultural familiarity with EBP will ease a transition to changing the content of
promotional examinations. Once knowledge of evidence becomes essential for any
promotion at all in policing, it will greatly broaden the incentive to study
evidence and use it in police operational decisions. Research could even be
cited in arrest reports and court testimony, thereby promoting a stronger public
image of the complex knowledge police must master.

   4. Completion of probation at the end of police recruit training should be
based on an examination that includes equal parts on knowledge of the law and of
the evidence on what works in policing. Once EBP becomes an expected part of
promotional examinations, it will be less difficult to add it to the final
requirement for permanent police officer status (if that concept itself
survives). It will also enhance the use of evidence in police operations since
officers at all rank levels would then be tested on their knowledge. It would
also mean that research evidence would have to be taught in police recruit
schools.

   5. Police professionals at all ranks should be able to achieve international
certification of advanced knowledge by an exam-based Fellowship of the College
of Policing (to be designated an FCP). The practice of advanced testing of
highly skilled practitioners is well established in medicine and other
professions; US doctors have an equivalent process of becoming board certified.
Since the sixteenth century, British professional colleges have been
administering such examinations and certifying knowledge for people from all
over the world. Online educational preparation will make such examinations even
easier to pass, providing free access to knowledge worldwide.

   6. Universities should create faculties of policing that would eventually
operate like medical schools. The growth of demand for police evidence requires
far greater commitment by universities to this kind of public service. The rise
of "pracademics" makes it even more important since the technical support they
need to do experiments at a high standard will grow rapidly.

   7. Academic positions in faculties of policing should include "clinical"
lectureships and professorships modeled on those in medical schools, in which
academics split their time equally between working on police operational matters
and teaching-research activity in the university. By investing in partial
funding of clinical professorships, police agencies or the institutions  [*441]
named above could speed up the process of creating more police faculties.

   8. Promotion to senior police posts, as with senior medical positions, should
require demonstrated achievements in research and teaching within the profession
. This suggestion builds on the recommendations of the UK Home Secretary (May
2012). It could be achieved with evidence of publications in peer-reviewed
journals or teaching in university faculties or police training institutions.

   9. The College of Policing (UK) should create a global example of a process
for approving and recommending evidence-based police practices, engaging police
leaders at all ranks with researchers, victims, and others affected by police
policies in deciding what works, when, and for whom. The transparency of
evidence is a hallmark of science, just as openness to public demands is a
hallmark of policing. The model of the process used by the United Kingdom's
National Institute for Health and Clinical Evidence is one that can be widely
adopted (Sherman 2009).

   10. Every nation should develop its own inventory of evidence-based
practices, based on its own domestic police research, international research,
approved practices of the College of Policing, and a list of similar
institutions in other nations. Once a process is adopted to review evidence for
policy decisions, the dearth of such evidence in most countries will become
clear. There is no point in American police research providing the only evidence
for policing in New Zealand, India, or Hong Kong. Each and every country may
have its own social and cultural context that affects the transportability of
evidence of what works. The only way to be certain of how police practices work
in each country is to test those practices in that country.

   Since the twenty-first century began, the pace at which police use evidence
has grown geometrically. That pace could still slow, reverse, or be crippled by
a hijacking of the meaning of "evidence" in police practice. But if even half
the suggestions offered here are adopted, evidence-based policing will continue
to grow. That trend may ultimately provide many tangible benefits to police
officers, making their work more legitimate and meaningful. A majority of
neither police nor the public may ever accept or even understand the benefits of
evidence, but popularity is not the right test for the success of EBP. The sole
test is whether it benefits the public. All the evidence suggests that it will.

    [*442]  APPENDIX

The resources for locating external tests of police services are growing
rapidly. In the past decade, the Campbell Collaboration (hosted by the Norwegian
government) has completed over 20 systematic reviews of multiple tests of
practices relevant to crime and policing. A "systematic review" in this context
is a comprehensive inventory of all possible tests of a specific practice, which
then examines the pattern of results to conclude whether the program is
effective where it has already been tested. The results in other countries do
not necessarily predict results in all countries. But the information in these
reviews is highly detailed, reporting exactly where the tests were done and how.
Reviews are in PDF files that can be downloaded for free from
http://www.campbellcollaboration.org. As of late 2012, the reviews included such
police services or issues as problem-oriented policing, hot spots policing,
focused deterrence, second responders to domestic violence cases, gun crime
prevention patrols, effects of DNA testing on detection rates,
community-oriented policing, legitimacy in policing, "broken windows" policing,
and crime displacement from place-targeted crime prevention programs.

   A second resource is less rigorous and comprehensive within subjects but has
broader coverage of topics and tested police services: the US Department of
Justice website at http://www.crimesolutions.gov. This site provides an
accessible, test-by-test summary of what was tested and how.

   A bolder model of retrieving police field tests is the EBP Matrix posted at
George Mason University in Virginia, with over 100 tests that can be retrieved
by a point-and-click scan of the study summaries represented as dots on the
matrix (Lum, Koper, and Telep 2010). This matrix can be found at
http://gemini.gmu.edu/cebcp/matrix.html. It is accessible on three dimensions:
scope of target (individuals to nation), specificity of police service (general
to specific), and proactivity of police service (from citizen-initiated to
police-initiated).

   REFERENCES

Angel, Caroline M. 2005. "Crime Victims Meet Their Offenders: Testing the Impact
of Restorative Justice Conferences on Victims' Post-traumatic Stress Symptoms."
PhD dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Criminology and
School of Nursing.

-> Ariel, B., J. Vila, and L. Sherman. 2012. "Random Assignment without Tears:
How to Stop Worrying and Love the Cambridge Randomizer." Journal of Experimental
Criminology 8(2):1-16. DOI: 10.1007/s11292-012-9141-4.

Banton, Michael. 1964. The Policeman in the Community. London: Tavistock.

-> Bennett, Trevor, Katy Holloway, and David P. Farrington. 2006. "Does
Neighborhood Watch Reduce Crime? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." Journal
of Experimental Criminology 2:437-58.

 [*443]  -> Berk, Richard A., Alec Campbell, Ruth Klap, and Bruce Western. 1992.
"The Deterrent Effect of Arrest in Incidents of Domestic Violence: A Bayesian
Analysis of Four Field Experiments." American Sociological Review 57:698-708.

Berk, Richard A., LawrenceW. Sherman, G. Barnes, E. Kurtz, and L. Ahlman. 2009.
"Forecasting Murder within a Population of Probationers and Parolees: A High
Stakes Application of Statistical Learning." Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society: Series A, Statistics in Society 172:191-211.

Berkow, Michael. 2011. Lecture to the National Police Academy, Hyderabad, India,
June 10.

Blumstein, Alfred, Jacqueline Cohen, Jeffrey A. Roth, and Daniel Nagin. 1986.
Criminal Careers and "Career Criminals." Washington, DC: National Academies
Press.

Bottoms, Anthony, and Justice Tankebe. 2012. "Beyond Procedural Justice: A
Dialogic Approach to Legitimacy in Criminal Justice." Journal of Criminal Law
and Criminology 102:119-253.

-> Bowers, Kate, Shane Johnson, and Ken Pease. 2004. "Prospective Hot-Spotting:
The Future of Crime Mapping?" British Journal of Criminology 44(5): 641-58.

-> Braga, Anthony A., Andrew V. Papachristos, and David M. Hureau. 2012. "The
Effects of Hot Spots Policing on Crime: An Updated Systematic Review and
Meta-Analysis." Campbell Systematic Reviews 2012:8. DOI: 10.4073/csr .2012.8.

-> Braga, Anthony A., and David L. Weisburd. 2010. Policing Problem Places. New
York: Oxford University Press.

-> ------. 2012. "The Effects of Focused Deterrence Strategies on Crime: A
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Empirical Evidence." Journal of
Research in Crime and Delinquency 49(3):323-58.

Bratton, William J. 1998. Turnaround: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime
Epidemic. New York: Random House.

-> Brown, Don W. 1978. "Arrest Rates and Crime Rates: When Does a Tipping Effect
Occur?" Social Forces 57:671-82.

Buerger, Michael E. 1993. "Convincing the Recalcitrant: An Examination of the
Minneapolis RECAP Experiment." PhD dissertation, Rutgers University, School of
Criminal Justice.

-> Chamlin, Mitchell B. 1991. "A Longitudinal Analysis of the Arrest-Crime
Relationship: A Further Examination of the Tipping Effect." Justice Quarterly
8:187-99.

Christopher, Warren, ed. 1991. Report of the Independent Commission on the Los
Angeles Police Department. Los Angeles: Diane Publishing.

-> Cohn, Ellen G. 1993. "The Prediction of Police Calls for Service: The
Influence of Weather and Temporal Variables on Rape and Domestic Violence."
Journal of Environmental Psychology 13:71-83.

Collins, Randall. 2004. Interaction Ritual Chains. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press.

Croft, Elizabeth B. 1985. "Police Use of Force: An Empirical Analysis." PhD
[*444]  dissertation, State University of New York at Albany, School of Criminal
Justice.

-> Davis, Robert C., David Weisburd, and Bruce Taylor. 2008. "Effects of Second
Responder Programs on Repeat Incidents of Family Abuse." Campbell Systematic
Reviews 2008:15. DOI: 10.4073/csr.2008.15.

-> Dunford, Franklyn W. 1990. "System-Initiated Warrants for Suspects of
Misdemeanor Domestic Assault: A Pilot Study." Justice Quarterly 7(4):631-53.

Eck, John E. 1979. Managing Case Assignments: The Burglary Investigation
Decision Model Replication. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

Englefield, Ashley E. 2013. M.St. thesis, Cambridge University, Institute of
Criminology.

Eyle, Alexandra. 2001-2. "Mayor Rocky Anderson Talks about What It's Like to . .
. Drop the D.A.R.E. Program." Reconsider Quarterly 1(4):12-13.

Farrar, Tony. 2013. M.St. Thesis, Cambridge University, Institute of
Criminology.

Farrell, Graham. 1995. "Preventing Repeat Victimization." In Building a Safer
Society: Strategic Approaches to Crime Prevention, edited by Michael Tonry and
David P. Farrington. Vol. 19 of Crime and Justice: A Review of Research, edited
by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

-> Ferraro, Kathleen J. 1989. "Policing Woman Battering." Social Problems
36:61-74.

Foa, Edna. 1997. "Trauma and Women: Course, Predictors, and Treatment." Journal
of Clinical Psychiatry 58:25-28.

-> Fyfe, James J. 1980. "Administrative Interventions on Police Shooting
Discretion: An Empirical Examination." Journal of Criminal Justice 7(4):309-23.

-> ------. 1982. "Blind Justice: Police Shootings in Memphis." Journal of
Criminal Law and Criminology 73(2):707-22.

Giluk, Tamara L., and Sara Rynes-Weller. 2012. "Research Findings Practitioners
Resist: Lessons for Management Academics from Evidence-Based Medicine." In The
Oxford Handbook of Evidence-Based Management, edited by Denise M. Rousseau. New
York: Oxford University Press.

Glaser, Barney, and Anselm Straus. 1967. The Discovery of Grounded Theory. New
York: Aldine.

Goldstein, Herman. 1979. "Improving Policing: A Problem-Oriented Approach."
Crime and Delinquency 25:236-58.

------. 1990. Problem-Oriented Policing. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Goode, Erica. 2011. "Sending the Police before There's a Crime." New York Times,
August 15. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html?_rp0.

Greenberg, Bernard, and Karen Lang. 1973. Enhancement of the Investigative
Function. Vol. 4, Burglary Investigative Checklist and Handbook. Stanford, CA:
Stanford Research Institute.

Greenwood, Peter, and Joan Petersilia. 1975. The Criminal Investigation Process.
Santa Monica, CA: RAND.

Hafner, Katie. 2012. "For Second Opinion, Consult a Computer?" New York  [*445]
Times, December 3.
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/04/health/quest-toeliminate-diagnostic-lapses.htm
l?pagewantedpall&_rp0.

Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary. 2010. Valuing the Police: Policing
in an Age of Austerity. London: Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary.

Howarth, David M. P. 2010. Address to the Third Cambridge-NPIA International
Conference on Evidence-Based Policing. Cambridge University, July 4.

Hume, David. 1748. An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
http://www.gutenberg.org/.

Issenberg, Sasha. 2012. The Victory Lab: The Secret Science of Winning Campaigns
. New York: Crown.

-> Jackson, Jonathan, and Ben Bradford. 2009. "Crime, Policing and Social Order:
On the Expressive Nature of Public Confidence in Policing." British Journal of
Sociology 60(3):493-521.

-> Johnson, Shane D., and Kate J. Bowers. 2004. "The Burglary as Clue to the
Future: The Beginnings of Prospective Hot-Spotting." European Journal of
Criminology 1:237-55.

Johnson, Steven Berlin. 2001. Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains,
Cities, and Software. New York: Scribners.

------. 2010. Where Good Ideas Come From: The Natural History of Innovation. New
York: Riverside.

Judge, Igor. 2010. "Summary Justice In and Out of Court: The Police Foundation's
John Harris Memorial Lecture." Lecture presented at Draper's Hall, London, July
7.
http://www.judiciary.gov.uk/Resources/JCO/Documents/Speeches/lcj-speech-john-har
ris-lecture.pdf.

Kahneman, D. 2011. Thinking, Fast and Slow. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

Kansas City Police Department. 1977. Response Time Analysis: Executive Summary.
Kansas City: Kansas City Police Department.

Kelling, George L., Antony Pate, Duane Dieckman, and Charles E. Brown. 1974. The
Kansas City Preventive Patrol Experiment: A Summary Report. Washington, DC:
Police Foundation.

Kelling, George L., Antony Pate, Amy Ferrara, Mary Utne, and Charles E. Brown.
1981. The Newark Foot Patrol Experiment. Washington, DC: Police Foundation.

Kennedy, David M. 2008. Deterrence and Crime Prevention. London: Routledge.

------. 2011. Don't Shoot: One Man, a Street Fellowship, and the End of Violence
in Inner-City America. New York: Bloomsbury.

-> Koper, Christopher S. 1995. "Just Enough Police Presence: Reducing Crime and
Disorderly Behavior by Optimizing Patrol Time in Crime Hot Spots." Justice
Quarterly 12:649-72.

-> Koper, Christopher S., and Evan Mayo-Wilson. 2006. "Police Crackdowns on
Illegal Gun Carrying: A Systematic Review of Their Impact on Gun Crime." Journal
of Experimental Criminology 2:227-61.

Kubrin, Charis E., Steven F. Messner, Glenn Deane, Kelly McGeever, and  [*446]
Thomas D. Stucky. 2010. "Proactive Policing and Robbery Rates across US Cities."
Criminology 48:57-97.

-> LaFave, Wayne. 1965. Arrest: The Decision to Take a Suspect into Custody.
Boston: Little, Brown.

-> Larson, Richard C. 1976. "What Happened to Patrol Operations in Kansas City?
A Review of the Kansas City Preventive Patrol Experiment." Journal of Criminal
Justice 3:267-97.

Lewis, Michael. 2003. Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game. New York:
Norton.

-> Lum, Cynthia, Christopher S. Koper, and Cody D. Telep. 2010. "The
Evidence-Based Policing Matrix." Journal of Experimental Criminology 7:3-26.

Manning, Peter K. 1992. "Information Technologies and the Police." In Modern
Policing, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and
Justice: A Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.

Maple, Jack. 1999. The Crime Fighter: How You Can Make Our Community Crime-Free.
New York: Doubleday.

-> Martin, Susan E., and Lawrence W. Sherman. 1986. "Selective Apprehension: A
Police Strategy for Repeat Offenders." Criminology 24:155-73.

May, T. 2012. Speech by the Home Secretary to the Police Superintendents'
Association Conference, September 11.
http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk/media-centre/speeches/supers2012?versionp2.

-> Mazerolle, Lorraine, Emma Antrobus, Sarah Bennett, and Tom R. Tyler. 2013.
"Shaping Citizen Perceptions of Police Legitimacy: A Randomized Field Trial of
Procedural Justice." Criminology 51:33-63.

McEwen, Thomas, Edward F. Connors, and Marcia Cohen. 1986. Evaluation of the
Differential Police Response Field Test. Washington, DC: National Institute of
Justice.

Meehl, Paul E. 1954. Clinical vs. Statistical Prediction: A Theoretical Analysis
and a Review of the Evidence. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.

Millenson, M. 1997. Demanding Medical Excellence: Doctors and Accountability in
the Information Age. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Mitchell, Renee. 2012. Presentation to the Cambridge Police Executive Programme,
April 17.

Monkkonen, Eric H. 1992. "History of Urban Police." In Modern Policing, edited
by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A Review of
Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Murray, Alexander. 2009. M.St. thesis, University of Cambridge, Institute of
Criminology.

-> Nevin, Rick. 2000. "How Lead Exposure Relates to Temporal Changes in IQ,
Violent Crime, and Unwed Pregnancy." Environmental Research 83:1-22.

Neyroud, Peter, and Molly Slothower. 2013. Operation Turning Point: Progress
Report. Cambridge: Jerry Lee Centre of Experimental Criminology, Institute of
Criminology, University of Cambridge.

 [*447]  O'Connor, Denis. 2012. Lecture to the Cambridge Police Executive
Programme, Institute of Criminology, University of Cambridge, September.

Parkinson, John. 2013. M.St. thesis, University of Cambridge, Institute of
Criminology.

-> Pate, Antony M., and Edwin E. Hamilton. 1992. "Formal and Informal Deterrents
to Domestic Violence: The Dade County Spouse Assault Experiment." American
Sociological Review 57:691-97.

Pease, Ken. 1998. "Repeat Victimisation: Taking Stock." Crime Detection and
Prevention Series Paper 90. London: Home Office.

-> Perry, Cheryl L., Kelli A. Komro, Sara Veblen-Mortenson, Linda M. Bosma, Kian
Farbakhsh, Karen A. Munson, Melissa H. Stigler, and Leslie A. Lytle. 2003. "A
Randomized Controlled Trial of the Middle and Junior High School DARE and DARE
Plus Programs." Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine 157:178-84.

-> Petrosino, Anthony, Carolyn Turpin-Petrosino, and Sarah Guckenburg. 2010.
"Formal System Processing of Juveniles: Effects on Delinquency." Campbell
Systematic Reviews 2010:1. DOI: 10.4073/csr.2010.1.

-> Pittet, Didier, and John M. Boyce. 2001. "Hand Hygiene and Patient Care:
Pursuing the Semmelweis Legacy." Lancet Infectious Diseases 1:9-20.

Police Executive Research Forum. 2008. Violent Crime in America: What We Know
about Hot Spots Enforcement. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice. 1967.
Task Force Report: The Police. Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office.

-> Ratcliffe, Jerry H., Travis Taniguchi, Elizabeth R. Groff, and Jennifer D.
Wood. 2011. "The Philadelphia Foot Patrol Experiment: A Randomized Controlled
Trial of Police Patrol Effectiveness in Violent Crime Hotspots." Criminology
49:795-831.

Reaves, Brian. 2010. Local Police Departments, 2007. Washington, DC: Bureau of
Justice Statistics, Office of Justice Programs, US Department of Justice.

Reiss, Albert J., Jr. 1971. The Police and the Public. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press.

------. 1988. "Co-offending and Criminal Careers." In Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, vol. 10, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.

------. 1992. "Police Organization in the Twentieth Century." In Modern Policing
, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.

-> Reiss, Albert J., Jr., and David P. Farrington. 1991. "Advancing Knowledge
about Co-offending: Results from a Prospective Longitudinal Survey of London
Males." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 82:360-95.

-> Robin, Gerald D. 1963. "Justifiable Homicide by Police Officers." Journal of
Criminal Law, Criminology and Police Science 54:225-31.

-> Roman, John, Shannon E. Reid, Aaron J. Chalfin, and Carly R. Knight. 2009.
[*448]  "The DNA Field Experiment: A Randomized Trial of the Cost-Effectiveness
of Using DNA to Solve Property Crimes." Journal of Experimental Criminology
5:345-69.

Rossi, Peter H., Richard E. Berk, and Bettye Eidson. 1974. The Roots of Urban
Discontent. New York: Wiley.

-> Rossi, Peter H., Emily Waite, Christine E. Bose, and Richard E. Berk. 1974.
"The Seriousness of Crimes: Normative Structure and Individual Differences."
American Sociological Review 39:224-37.

-> Sackett, David L., William M. Rosenberg, J. A. Gray, R. Brian Haynes, and W.
Scott Richardson. 1996. "Evidence Based Medicine: What It Is and What It Isn't."
British Medical Journal 312:71-72.

Sagan, Leonard. 1987. The Health of Nations. New York: Basic Books.

-> Sampson, Robert J., and Dawn Jeglum Bartusch. 1998. "Legal Cynicism and
Subcultural Tolerance of Deviance: The Neighborhood Context of Racial
Difference." Law and Society Review 32:777-804.

Saunders, Charles. 1970. Upgrading the American Police: Education and Training
for Better Law Enforcement. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution.

-> Shaw, James W. 1995. "Community Policing against Guns: Public Opinion of the
Kansas City Gun Experiment." Justice Quarterly 12:695-710.

Skogan, Wesley. 1990. Disorder and Decline: Crime and the Spiral of Decay in
American Neighborhoods. New York: Free Press.

Skogan, Wesley, and Kathleen Frdyl, eds. 2004. Fairness and Effectiveness in
Policing: The Evidence. National Research Council, Committee to Review Research
on Police Policy and Practice. Washington, DC: National Academies Press.

Skogan, Wesley, and Susan Hartnett. 1997. Community Policing, Chicago Style. New
York: Oxford University Press.

Sherman, Lawrence W. 1976. The Control of Police Misconduct in Louisville,
Kentucky. Louisville: Office of the Public Safety Commissioner.

------. 1978. Scandal and Reform: Controlling Police Corruption. Berkeley:
University of California Press.

------. 1980. "Execution without Trial: Police Homicide and the Constitution."
Vanderbilt Law Review 33:71-100.

------. 1983. "Reducing Police Gun Use: Critical Events, Administrative Policy,
and Organizational Change." In Control in the Police Organization, edited by
Maurice Punch. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

------. 1984. "Experiments in Police Discretion: Scientific Boon or Dangerous
Knowledge?" Law and Contemporary Problems 47:61-81.

------. 1986. "Policing Communities: What Works?" In Communities and Crime,
edited by Albert J. Reiss Jr. and Michael Tonry. Vol. 8 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.

------. 1987. Repeat Calls to Police in Minneapolis. Crime Control Reports 4.
Washington, DC: Crime Control Institute.

------. 1990. "Police Crackdowns: Initial and Residual Deterrence." In Crime
[*449]  and Justice: A Review of Research, vol. 12, edited by Michael Tonry and
Norval Morris. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

------. 1992a. "Attacking Crime: Police and Crime Control." In Modern Policing,
edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.

------. 1992b. Policing Domestic Violence: Experiments and Dilemmas. With Janell
D. Schmidt and Dennis P. Rogan. New York: Free Press.

-> ------. 1993. "Defiance, Deterrence, and Irrelevance: A Theory of the
Criminal Sanction." Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 30:445-73.

------. 1998. Evidence-Based Policing. Ideas in American Policing Series.
Washington, DC: Police Foundation. http://www.policefoundation.org.

------. 2002. "Trust and Confidence in Criminal Justice." National Institute of
Justice Journal 248:23-31.

-> ------. 2007. "The Power Few Hypothesis: Experimental Criminology and the
Reduction of Harm." Journal of Experimental Criminology 3:299-321.

-> ------. 2009. "Evidence and Liberty: The Promise of Experimental
Criminology." Criminology and Criminal Justice 9(1):5-28.

------. 2010. "Less Prison, More Police, Less Crime: How Criminology Can Save
the States from Bankruptcy." Lecture presented to the National Institute of
Justice, April 21.
http://www.nij.gov/multimedia/presenter/presentersherman/data/resources/presente
r-sherman-transcript.htm.

-> ------. 2011a. "Al Capone, the Sword of Damocles, and the Police-Corrections
Budget Ratio." Criminology and Public Policy 10:195-206.

------. 2011b. "Professional Policing and Liberal Democracy." Benjamin Franklin
Medal Lecture delivered to the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
Manufactures, and Commerce, London, November 1.
http://www.thersa.org/events/audio-and-past-events/2011/professional-policingand
-liberal-democracy.

-> Sherman, Lawrence W., and Richard A. Berk. 1984. "The Specific Deterrent
Effects of Arrest for Domestic Assault." American Sociological Review 49(2):
261-71.

Sherman, Lawrence W., Ioana Cosma, and Peter Neyroud. 2012. "Forecasting Serious
Crime among Convicted Offenders in England and Wales: A Random Forests
Approach." Paper presented to the American Society of Criminology, Chicago,
November.

-> Sherman, Lawrence W., Patrick R. Gartin, and Michael E. Buerger. 1989. "Hot
Spots of Predatory Crime: Routine Activities and the Criminology of Place."
Criminology 27:27-55.

Sherman, Lawrence W., Denise Gottfredson, Doris MacKenzie, John E. Eck, Peter
Reuter, and Shawn D. Bushway. 1998. Preventing Crime: What Works, What Doesn't,
What's Promising. Research in Brief. Washington, DC: National Institute of
Justice.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and Heather Harris. 2012. "Life-Course Effects of Arrest
for Domestic Violence: Informal and Formal Control over 24 Years."  [*450]
Paper presented to the American Society of Criminology, Chicago, November.

-> Sherman, Lawrence W., and Robert H. Langworthy. 1979. "Measuring Homicide by
Police Officers." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 70:546-60.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and the National Advisory Commission on Higher Education
for Police Officers. 1978. The Quality of Police Education. San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and Heather Strang. 2012. "Restorative Justice as
Evidence-Based Sentencing." In The Oxford Handbook of Sentencing and Corrections
, edited by Joan Petersilia and Kevin Reitz. New York: Oxford University Press.

Sherman, Lawrence W., Heather Strang, Geoffrey C. Barnes, and Daniel J. Woods.
2006. "Race and Restorative Justice." Paper presented to the American Society of
Criminology, Los Angeles, November.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and David Weisburd. 1995. "General Deterrent Effects of
Police Patrol in Crime Hot Spots: A Randomized, Controlled Trial." Justice
Quarterly 12:635-48.

Silver, Nate. 2012. The Signal and the Noise: Why So Many Predictions Fail--but
Some Don't. New York: Penguin.

Sparrow, M. 2011. Governing Science. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University.
http://www.nij.gov/pubs-sum/232179.htm.

Spelman, William. 1990. Repeat Offender Programs for Law Enforcement.
Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

Spelman, William, and Dale K. Brown. 1981. Calling the Police: Citizen Reporting
of Serious Crime. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

Spelman, William, and John E. Eck. 1989. Sitting Ducks, Ravenous Wolves and
Helping Hands: New Approaches to Urban Policing. Austin, TX: Lyndon B. Johnson
School of Public Affairs, University of Texas.

Stanko, Betsy. 2013. Paper presented to the Society of Evidence-Based Policing,
University of Edinburgh, February 12.

Strang, Heather, Lawrence Sherman, Evan Mayo-Wilson, Daniel J. Woods, and Barak
Ariel. 2013. "Restorative Justice Conferencing (RJC) Using Face-to-Face Meetings
of Offenders and Victims: Effects on Offender Recidivism and Victim
Satisfaction." Campbell Systematic Reviews, forthcoming.

-> Tankebe, Justice. 2009. "Public Cooperation with the Police in Ghana: Does
Procedural Fairness Matter?" Criminology 47:1265-93.

Tapscott, Don, and Anthony D. Williams. 2006. Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration
Changes Everything. London: Portfolio.

-> Telep, Cody W., Ren[#x00E9]e J. Mitchell, and David Weisburd. 2012. "How Much
Time Should the Police Spend at Crime Hot Spots? Answers from a Police Agency
Directed Randomized Field Trial in Sacramento, California." Justice Quarterly
2012:1-29.

-> Tennenbaum, Abraham N. 1994. "The Influence of the 'Garner' Decision on
Police Use of Deadly Force." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 85(1):
241-60.

 [*451]  Thompson, James D. 1967. Organizations in Action. New York:
McGraw-Hill. Thornton, Sara D. 2011. M.St. thesis, University of Cambridge,
Institute of Criminology.

Tittle, Charles R., and Allan R. Rowe. 1974. "Certainty of Arrest and Crime
Rates: A Further Test of the Deterrence Hypothesis." Social Forces 52:455-62.

Trojanowicz, Robert C., and Robert Baldwin. 1982. An Evaluation of the
Neighborhood Foot Patrol Program in Flint, Michigan. East Lansing: Michigan
State University.

Weisburd, David. 2012. "Can Automobile Vehicle Locator Systems Be Used to Manage
Police Presence and Reduce Crime? The Dallas, TX AVL Experiment." Paper
Presented to the Fifth Cambridge University International Conference on
Evidence-Based Policing, July 10. http://sms.cam.ac.uk/media/1277185.

Weisburd, David, Elizabeth R. Groff, and Sue-Ming Yang. 2012. The Criminology of
Place: Street Segments and Our Understanding of the Crime Problem. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.

-> Weisburd, David, and Cynthia Lum. 2005. "The Diffusion of Computerized Crime
Mapping in Policing: Linking Research and Practice." Police Practice and
Research 6:419-34.

Weisburd, David, Stephen D. Mastrofski, Rosann Greenspan, and James J. Willis.
2004. The Growth of Comp-Stat in American Policing. Police Foundation reports.
Washington, DC: Police Foundation.

Weisburd, David, and Peter Neyroud. 2011. Police Science: Toward a New Paradigm.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University.
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/228922.pdf.

-> Weisburd, David, Cody W. Telep, Joshua C. Hinkle, and John E. Eck. 2010. "Is
Problem-Oriented Policing Effective in Reducing Crime and Disorder?" Criminology
and Public Policy 9:139-72.

-> Weisburd, David, Laura A. Wyckoff, Justin Ready, John E. Eck, Joshua C.
Hinkle, and Frank Gajewski. 2006. "Does Crime Just Move around the Corner? A
Controlled Study of Spatial Displacement and Diffusion of Crime Control
Benefits." Criminology 44:549-92.

White, Susan O., and Samuel Krislov. 1977. Understanding Crime: An Evaluation of
the National Institute of Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice. Washington, DC:
National Academy of Sciences.

-> Willis, J. J., Stephen D. Mastrofski, and DavidWeisburd. 2007. "Making Sense
of COMPSTAT: A Theory-Based Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police
Departments." Law and Society Review 41:147-88.

Wilson, James Q. 1968. Varieties of Police Behavior. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.

Wilson, Orlando W. 1950. Police Administration. New York: McGraw-Hill. Zimring,
Franklin E. 1976. "Field Experiments in General Deterrence: Preferring the
Tortoise to the Hare." Evaluation 3:132-35.

------. 2012. The City That Became Safe: New York's Lessons for Urban Crime and
Its Control. New York: Oxford University Press.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Copyright LawCriminal OffensesCriminal InfringementJurisdiction &
VenueGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinanceMilitary & Veterans LawMilitary
JusticeEvidenceGeneral Overview


                               2 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Hot Pursuit of Numbers to Ward Off Crime

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; SpecialSections; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1070 words


At the Seattle Police Department, the morning roll call begins with Google Maps
and computer algorithms.

A supervising sergeant pulls up a map of a precinct that is dotted with red
boxes marking the beats that the officers should focus on. The map is the
product of software that crunches crime data and tries to predict where crimes
are most likely to occur over the next few hours. Patrol this parking lot today
after 8 p.m., the algorithm might suggest, or keep an eye on that stretch of
road for car break-ins.

''It gives the officers more direction,'' Sgt. Bryan Clenna, of the city's West
Precinct, said, ''instead of driving around like drone bees.''

Predictive policing programs like this one, used for now only for property
crimes, are a harbinger of how, for better or worse, police officers across the
country are relying on the data analytics business. Seattle is at the center of
this experiment.

The city's license-plate readers record the movement of vehicles, information
that is then stored in a vast database to be tapped later in criminal
investigations. Its red-light cameras record traffic violations and issue
tickets, though unlike many other municipalities, Seattle requires a police
officer to vet each citation. The police department uses Twitter, that rushing
stream of data, as its crime blotter, letting residents report possible crimes
in their neighborhoods.

And, starting in July, the Seattle police will use a similar software program to
predict where gun violence is likely to occur.

The department even procured an unmanned drone equipped with a video camera to
take aerial shots, but the plan was halted after residents raised concerns about
privacy.

''Where technology has caught up is to allow police to ask questions about
what's happening in their jurisdictions and to be able to understand temporal
patterns, spatial patterns,'' said Joel M. Caplan, assistant professor of
criminal justice at Rutgers University in New Jersey, who has developed a crime
forecasting program with his colleagues and is testing it at a half-dozen police
agencies.

Critics say that surveillance technologies carry risks to civil liberties and
that predictive policing, in particular, can additionally perpetuate a
self-fulfilling cycle of bias. That is to say, an area with historically high
rates of crime gets greater police attention, which results in more arrests,
which in turn the algorithm uses to deem that neighborhood an area where crime
is more likely to occur.

''It comes with inherent biases and prejudices that can be worse than the help
it offers,'' said Jason M. Schultz, who studies the privacy implications of new
technologies at the School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley.
''It kind of reinforces its own data by redirecting resources to those areas.''

Because predictive policing is still in its infancy, there is little independent
evidence to suggest whether data mining in law enforcement is really effective.

But for companies that make the analytics tools, it is already a large and
fast-growing market.

For instance, I.B.M., which has spent billions of dollars in the last year
acquiring analytics start-ups, offers a software package of its own for
predictive policing. Its social media analytics tool can be used by police
agencies to vet Facebook and Twitter chatter. And its Coplink software allows
one investigating police agency to mine another's crime data to track down a
wanted person: police officials in Mesa, Ariz., said they used this technology
to find a man suspected of murder who was picked up for jaywalking hundreds of
miles away.

Microsoft teamed up with the New York Police Department to develop one of the
most ambitious crime analytics tools in the world. Known as the Domain Awareness
System, it can analyze video from the more than 3,000 police surveillance
cameras across the city and comb through a variety of other databases, from
license-plate readers to sensors that can pick up heightened radiation levels to
arrest records. In announcing the program last August, the police said it could,
for instance, find a car associated with a possible crime or lawbreaker and
analyze where that car had been seen over the last several weeks.

Law enforcement agencies, especially gang units, mine social networks like
Facebook and Twitter to gather intelligence on criminal networks. The Department
of Homeland Security uses an analytics tool that combs through Twitter for key
words that might signal trouble. The list includes ''pipe bomb,'' ''plume'' and
''listeria.''

Seattle's predictive policing program grew out of an earlier experiment in data
analytics. It began with a software program that culled 911 calls from the
previous week, identified crime ''hot spots'' and assigned officers to patrol
each one for at least 15 minutes every hour. Not all 911 calls turn out to be
about criminal activity, though, and the department cut back on the practice of
these so-called directed patrols. Earlier this year, Seattle bought a new
software package, known as PredPol, short for predictive policing, and developed
by academics at the University of California, Los Angeles. It initially deployed
the software in two precincts, and in May announced its expansion citywide.

Acting Lt. Bryan Grenon said it was too early to know whether it was working. In
any case, property crimes have plummeted in Seattle in the last year, by as much
as 19 percent.

PredPol, according to P. Jeffrey Brantingham, a U.C.L.A. anthropologist who
helped develop it, does not rely just on the previous day or previous week's
incidents. It looks at both short-term and long-term patterns in property
crimes, he said, and uses a proprietary algorithm to weigh their relative
importance and forecast risk in the next few hours. It has been used by 11 other
police agencies, including those in Los Angeles and Santa Cruz. It has not been
independently tested.

Sometimes, his algorithm has a pretty good idea of where someone might cause
trouble, but not necessarily what kind.

In late May, Sergeant Clenna recalled, the PredPol map divined danger in a tiny
patch of downtown that is dotted with liquor stores and loiterers. Sure enough,
there was a robbery right there, though not one that a computer program could
have predicted: a thief walked into a Chinese restaurant and made off with a
live crab.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/in-hot-pursuit-of-numbers-to-ward-off-c
rime/

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PREDICTIVE POLICING: Michele Vallor,  a Seattle police officer,
patrols a  block identified by PredPol, a software  package, as being at high
risk  for crime. At left, during roll call Seattle  officers are given printouts
of  PredPol data. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL HANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

FOR 10TH YEAR;
Violent crime in L.A. falls

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 723 words


Violent crime in the city of Los Angeles fell for the 10th year in a row to its
lowest level in decades, even as property crime reversed its downward trend and
posted a slight uptick, the mayor and police chief announced Monday.

"Our data shows that, in 2012, Los Angeles had the fewest violent crimes per
capita than any big city in the United States of America," Mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa said during a news conference.

"Last year, there was a citywide reduction in robbery, aggravated assault,
burglary and auto theft, and - for the third year in a row - we saw fewer than
300 homicides," he added.

Police Chief Charlie Beck said the 18,293 violent crimes recorded in 2012
represented an 8.2 percent slide from the year before. Statistics showed
significant decreases in robbery and aggravated assault offset increases in rape
and homicide.

"This is the lowest violent crime level in the city of Los Angeles since William
Parker was chief (of the LAPD in the '50s and '60s)," Beck said.

He added a 10.5 percent drop in gang-related crimes overall helped drive the
numbers down, noting the 152 gang-related homicides last year were the fewest in
decades.

The city, however, saw property crimes increase for the first time in years,
though by only 0.2 percent for a total of 85,866 thefts, burglaries and
carjackings.

Beck blamed the uptick on a 30 percent increase in cellphone thefts, in
particular, and he urged the public to take precautions to prevent their various
electronic gadgets from being stolen.

"Lock it, hide it and you'll keep it," he advised. "Put the responsibility on
yourself for keeping your property safe. If you do that, then I can continue to
reduce crime in the city of Los Angeles."

Beck also attributed some of the increase in property crime to realignment,
which took effect in October 2011. That law, backed by Gov. Jerry Brown,
included a provision that placed certain ex-cons on probation instead of parole.

"When realignment was originally announced, I predicted property crime would
increase in Los Angeles by a couple of percentage points because of it, and I
believe that has occurred," he said, calling for the law to be "tweaked" so that
police can monitor ex-cons more closely.

Taken together, the overall drop in violent crimes and property crimes in 2012
was 1.4 percent, the smallest percentage decline in the last five years.

In 2008, during the recession, overall crimes receded 7.6 percent. In 2011, the
drop was 4.6 percent.

Beck, however, bristled at the observation that last year's 1.4 percent drop in
the overall crime rate did not seem up to par.

"You're minimizing something that is a remarkable achievement," he said.

"Why don't you ask the other cities that had an increase? Why don't you ask New
York, Chicago, the county of Los Angeles, if they would like to have 1.4
percent."

Villaraigosa, whose term ends in June, said he hopes the incoming mayor -
whoever it may be - will make the continued hiring of police officers a
priority.

He said the LAPD recently hit a milestone when its ranks swelled to 10,000, but
added Los Angeles remains "the most underpoliced big city" in the country. He
refused to back a proposed ballot measure to boost the sales tax if the LAPD is
not allowed to continue growing.

"There is no way I would support a sales tax if we don't continue police
hiring," Villaraigosa said.

"These numbers (the declining crime rates) don't lie," he added. "These numbers
are a reflection of growing our police department, of our commitment to
community policing."

Beck vowed the LAPD would continue to lower crime rates by remaining data-driven
in its crime suppression strategies, and by working closely with the Mayor's
Gang Reduction and Youth Development Office.

He also vowed to expand "predictive policing, which uses logarithms to predict
where crime will occur and to control the response of officers," as well as more
officers long term to the toughest parts of the city so they can form deep
partnerships with the communities there.

He also intends to continue Operation Ceasefire, which calls for talking to gang
members so they know the consequences of continued violent crimes, and Operation
Laser, which closely tracks people who have committed violent crimes in the past
and are likely to do so again.

christina.villacorte@dailynews.com

213-974-8985

twitter.com/LADNvillacorte

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 15, 2013 Thursday

Santa Cruz predictive policing adds tool for cops, neighbors

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 740 words


Aug. 15--SANTA CRUZ -- On a day meant to introduce residents to predictive
policing hot spots that officers check in their down time, Santa Cruz police
Wednesday arrested a man on Beach Street during a predictive check.

The day was billed as International Predictive Policing Day of Action, with
police in Kent, England, and Los Angeles sharing locations with residents to try
to increase their presence on the street and hopefully prevent crime.

Near Beach and Main streets about 11:45 a.m., police apprehended a 47-year-old
man on suspicion of being drunk in public and carrying a concealed knife, both
misdemeanors.

Police said it was a small illustration of the idea at work.

"Our goal today is not to arrest a lot of people, it's to prevent the crime from
happening," said Santa Cruz Police Chief Kevin Vogel. "I'm exceptionally proud
that we were the first ones to do this."

Launched in 2011, the program essentially uses historical data of the time and
location of burglaries and thefts and uses an algorithm to predict future crime.
When officers are not responding to other calls, they are asked to patrol in
those areas.

Wednesday, some residents gathered at places such as lower Ocean Street and
Lincoln and Chestnut streets, which were predicted to have a higher likelihood
of burglary, vehicle burglary or vehicle theft.

"It's almost like Neighborhood Watch in the next century," said Santa Cruz
Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark.

Clark said police have not tracked the number of arrests that have come from the
"extra checks," as police often call them. Yet he said that once or twice a
week, an officer on a predictive policing check has either talked to a
suspicious person, received information on another case or made an arrest.

The arrests have not been associated with major crimes such as murders or
robberies, but they have helped to solve burglaries and put police in places
they might not think to patrol.

It's been a tool that officers have added to their natural intuition, Clark
said.

PREDICTIVE EXAMPLES

One night in 2012, for instance, officers were on an extra check near Windham
Street when they talked to a man who had more than four GPS units on him.

"No one's that lost," Clark said. Through more investigation, "We wrapped up
several auto burglary cases off that."

Last year near North Branciforte and Goss avenues, police stopped a bicyclist
and recognized him as a drug user. He wore a NCAA basketball ring and didn't
look like a basketball player; police later linked it to a burglary and returned
it.

Clark's favorite example is that of a Santa Cruz beat cop who was eating his
lunch in his patrol car in a downtown parking lot because it was on that shift's
predictive list. He spotted two women trying to break into cars and arrested
them.

For neighborhood leaders like Deborah Elston, the list of 15 predictive policing
addresses distributed to neighbors on Wednesday were not a big surprise.

They included five areas in the Lower Ocean Street neighborhood, as well as the
100 block of Beach Street and near Seabright Avenue and Murray Street.

Elston was pleased that the list was shared with neighbors, and she encouraged
residents to be aware of suspicious people and problems like graffiti -- which
can lead to more crime.

"When you make the 911 call to report suspicious activity, you never know what
you're preventing," Elston said.

Although many factors go in to crime trends, overall reported crime dropped more
than 25 percent in June and July compared with June and July 2012, according to
police.

For instance, there were 45 reported burglaries in the city in July 2013, down
from 67 in July 2012.

Elston said she understood it might be difficult to quantify the success of
predictive policing because crime could have been prevented by the presence of
an officer or neighbor. The person trying door handles on cars to steal things
might have gone elsewhere, for instance.

Yet she said that twice in the first few months of the predictive program, she
had her cellphone out to call 911 for a suspicious person when an officer on an
extra check arrived.

One time was on the San Lorenzo River levee when an officer rolled up to her.

She told him, "I was just about to call you."

Follow Sentinel reporter Stephen Baxter at Twitter.com/sbaxter_sc

___ (c)2013 Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130815-QC-Santa-Cruz-predictive-policing
-adds-tool-for-cops-neighbors-20130815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2013 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               5 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                 First Edition

The numbers men of LA

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1045 words


The city's police have found a way to spot trouble before it starts, writes Nick
O'Malley.

The morning watch at the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill division
begins at 6am, when the shift's officers gather for roll-call and a briefing.

The dozen or so officers are briefed on incidents from the previous shift, and
on any offenders or vehicles they might be looking for. Then each team is a
handed a simple A4 map, warm from an office printer.

They don't look like much, but the maps are the result of more than half a
decade's work by anthropologists and mathematicians from two leading American
universities.

Marked on the maps are a series of red boxes outlining 150-metre-long squares
superimposed over the streets they will patrol. The boxes indicate, with spooky
accuracy, where the division's most common crimes are most likely to be
committed during the 12-hour shift.

The Predictive Policing project, or Pred Pol as it has become known, has been so
successful in cutting crime rates since it was tested in Foothill in 2011 that
it has spread to seven other LA police divisions, with more to come. Twenty or
so police departments across the US have signed on, as have departments in
Britain. It is understood at least one Australian force is in talks to sign up.

A driving force behind Pred Pol is Dr Jeff Brantingham, an anthropologist at the
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

The standard measure of accuracy for crime prediction is, he says,
multiplications of random. Existing techniques are usually effective about three
times random. Pred Pol is twice as effective, accurate to six times random. And
it is likely to improve.

Brantingham says the key insight that informed early work on Pred Pol was to
tackle crime prediction via mathematics, rather than the social sciences.

Usually, crime analysts look at crime patterns with social and geographical
factors. They would look at a particular area's crime history, demographic
make-up, the location of transport and late-opening bars.

Pred Pol strips all that away. It simply feeds three different factors - crime
type, time and location - through the dizzyingly sophisticated equations and
algorithms the team has created. "The problem with considering how many open
bars there are is that it misses the point," Brantingham says. "The key
information is the number of assaults or robberies, and you already know that."

The team began in 2005 by considering crime through a spatial rather than social
lens. If you consider a potential criminal and a potential target to be atoms
floating in a body of fluid, what factors would cause them to meet - and how and
when? And what other factors might interrupt that meeting?

Working with Brantingham, UCLA's applied mathematics department began
investigating models that described events such as chemical reactions and the
way substances diffuse in fluid. Even fish migration predictions were discussed.

Soon the Los Angeles police had become involved. Brantingham had asked for
access to crime data and had feared he might be met with suspicion. Instead, the
department threw itself into the project.

At the time, the police suffered from an awkward problem: crime was falling
across the city and had been for a few years. The city that had registered 1092
murders in a single year two decades ago lost just 298 of its citizens to
violence in 2012, when it became the safest big city in the US.

This was good news for citizens but it meant innovation was needed to keep up
the momentum.

Then police chief William Bratton supplied the UCLA team with data and funding
and assigned one of his captains, Sean Malinowski, to work with them.

"Whenever anyone starts

talking about data, I tend to get the mission," says Malinowski, who has a PhD
in public policy.

The next breakthrough came when Brantingham's collaborator, Dr George Mohler,
now an assistant professor of mathematics and computer science at Santa Clara
University, discovered that equations used in mapping the aftershocks of
earthquakes could be manipulated to map crime. Mohler's discovery had the
dramatic effect of allowing the team to quickly apply their theory and create a
working model of Pred Pol.

Before each 12-hour shift, or watch, begins in Foothill, a senior officer logs
in to Pred Pol and calls up the maps for the coming hours on a desktop computer.
Recent and historical crime data are run through Pred Pol, which prints out that
shift's crime "boxes" neatly on a Google map.

So far the system predicts and maps only car theft, burglary from a car, and
burglary, because these constitute more than 60 per cent of crime. The team is
working to expand into gun crime and homicide.

In the long run, it is feasible that the technology could allow police to enter
the time and location suspects are seen on the street and instantly be fed
background material, such as likely gang membership.

While the science is high-tech, Andrea Bertozzi, UCLA's head of applied maths
and the lead mathematician on Pred Pol, says the folded piece of paper handed to
officers is good technology for its purpose.

When police on patrol have time to spare, they are directed to spend time in
their allocated boxes. The beauty is the simplicity. They are not distracted by
interacting with new technology or equipment.

Police report that once in their boxes they find themselves "hyper-alert",
Malinowski says. They take note of who is around, they talk to shopkeepers and
home owners, they check on suspicious activity. Their goal in the boxes is not
so much to catch crooks - though that has happened - but to suppress crime.

In a six-month test in Foothill when the division used Pred Pol strictly - that
is, Pred Pol alone was used for crime prediction, rather than in concert with
the department's analysts - crime rates dropped by 12 per cent overall and 25
per cent for car theft. In a later six-month period, when other intelligence
types were used, crime rates rose, he says.

The results are so dramatic that the force's chief, Charlie Beck, is backing
further research, not only to refine the technology but to push it into new
crime areas. In effect, Malinowski says, Beck has so much confidence in the
model, he is allowing the researchers to use parts of the city as a laboratory
to study crime prediction.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Go figure: Los Angeles police officers and (below) a
mathematical map of crime hot spots. Photo: Getty Images; MAP:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday

Cops test-drive preemptive policing

BYLINE: By Zen Vuong, Staff Writer twitter.com/zenstet

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 688 words


ALHAMBRA -- The Alhambra Police Department is the first law-enforcement agency
in Southern California to fully implement Predictive Policing, a cloud-based
software that forecasts areas where crimes are likely to be committed.

Some divisions in the Los Angeles Police Department also use PredPol, which was
developed by a team of mathematicians and social scientists at UCLA, Santa Clara
University and UC Irvine, but Alhambra has pioneered city-wide implementation.

"It's not about predicting who is going to commit a crime. It's about where. It
creates an opportunity for police officers to get in front of those crimes and
deter them," said co-founder Jeffrey Brantingham, a UCLA anthropology professor.

"This is a way of using the data that the police department already have about
where and when crimes are occurring to essentially forecast when and where
future crimes are expected to occur. "

PredPol crunches about five years of law-breaking data to map probable crime
spots. This policing algorithm has become a practical tool only in the last two
years, although it has been in development for the last seven years, Brantingham
said. Places such as Seattle and Santa Cruz already use it and data show that
law-enforcement officers perform six times better when they use PredPol,
Brantingham said.

But he emphasized the software is a tool that is ineffective without skillful
officers, and the preemptive program does not ask agencies to allocate all of
their officers in one neighborhood while abandoning another.

Because Alhambra implemented the program about five months ago, Police Chief
Mark Yokoyama said it's a little too early to see its impact. However, when he
compared numbers from 2012, Yokoyama noted that residential theft has decreased
by 11 percent, car burglaries by 20 percent and grand theft auto by 10 percent
since the program started.

"The only difference between this year and last year is utilizing PredPol in our
policing strategies," Yokoyama said.

At 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily his agency prints a map that compares the most
up-to-date crime statistics with historic figures to tell police what
500-by-500-square-feet area they should pay attention to.

PredPol has made finding criminals easier, Yokohama said, but he doubts the
higher efficiency will lead to layoffs within his department.

"We still rely upon our police officers' intuition, knowledge and personal
data," Yokoyama said. "PredPol might tell us here's an area to focus on today.
That may be different from what a police officer knows based on hot-spot data
within the last 30 days. "

Some Alhambra residents expressed reservations about the new program.

Kelsea Perez, 21, said this new software is a double-edged sword that can lead
to discrimination.

"It can allow for the homeless who live in this area to be pushed away," Perez
said. "(Law enforcement's) goal is prevention, so they're going to do whatever
they can. "

Grinnell Almy, a computer programmer who works in Alhambra, said he sees the
possibility of targeting ethnic minorities, even in a city where about 55
percent of residents are Asian.

"Whenever you use technology, you need to be careful to guard against racial
profiling," he said. "Anything can be used wrongly. You have to be aware and
take it into account. "

Brantingham said PredPol doesn't profile individuals; since it collects data
only on where and when a type of crime has happened it doesn't target offenders,
races or the poor, he said.

Yokohama said preliminary results are very promising and he doesn't see any
negatives in using PredPol.

Using the software as a guide, police presence has been increased in certain
areas, he said.

"It has made our officers more visible within the residential areas than they
have been in the past," he said. "Crime prevention is what we're looking to out
of this. I don't think we'll see a rise in arrests. "

Lien Tran, 45, who lives by Almansor Park, said she's noticed a difference.

Her car window was smashed last year and broken windows at Almansor Park were a
regular occurrence, Tran said, adding that she hasn't noticed broken glass in
the streets since the program started.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lt. Sean Heckers, watch commander at Alhambra Police Department, shows
Tuesday, May 14, 2013 PredPol or Predictive Policing software they began using
this year. The software predicts areas of crime each day showing 10 red boxes
for day and night shifts (SGVN/Staff Photo by Sarah Reingewirtz)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Salinas too busy to use crime predictor

BYLINE: By JULIA REYNOLDS Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 822 words


Until its most recent outbreak of 10 shootings and three homicides in 12 days,
Salinas was on track for the lowest level of gun violence since shootings peaked
in 2009.

Police say they are frustrated because they are finally armed with impressive
new technology for predicting where and when violence is likely to occur   but
they have hardly been able to use it.

The city has for months been testing a "predictive policing" system called
PredPol to see if it is effective in forecasting where and when violent crime is
likely to occur.

After six months' use, the data show that PredPol accurately predicted violent
crime at levels 50 percent higher than the previously used method that maps
high-crime hot spots.

PredPol was used successfully in Santa Cruz County to predict where property
crimes such as burglaries are likely to occur, but until Salinas agreed to try
it, the system hadn't been used to predict violent crime, said Salinas Police
Chief Kelly McMillin.

After Salinas, Detroit adopted the system to try to predict and prevent gun
violence.

"What we're looking for is a net reduction in violence," McMillin said.

Until July's sudden surge   a summer phenomenon not unusual in Salinas   the
city seemed headed in that direction.

Shootings with victims until July 1 totalled 47, putting the year on pace for an
annual total of 93   a 58 percent drop from 151 in 2009.

For years, annual shooting counts have consistently hovered above 100, except in
2011 when the total was 53 for the year   a total police attribute to aggressive
use the year before of the Ceasefire intervention strategy and police roundups
such as Operation Knockout that targeted high-level criminals.

The city's predictive policing tool was created by mathematicians and social
scientists at University of California Los Angeles, Santa Clara University and
UC Irvine who worked with crime analysts and officers at the Santa Cruz and Los
Angeles police departments.

When Salinas police used the technology between August 2012 and February 2013,
violent crime was accurately predicted 48 percent more often than with the old
hot spot method, which relies only on mapping past crimes.

Robberies were correctly predicted 75 percent more often.

PredPol's developers say the technology does not target or profile specific
people, nor does it simply map previous crimes. It does study patterns,
demographics and other data to produce constantly updated "place-based
prediction boxes" that Salinas police review before starting every shift.

But for the system to be effective as a crime prevention tool, researchers say
patrol officers should spend more than two hours of every 10-hour shift in the
areas marked by the highest-crime prediction boxes.

Salinas officers are only able to spend about six minutes per shift in the
priority "boxed" areas in each of three sections of the city, McMillin said.

That undermines the purpose of the technology, he said, which is intended to
prevent new crimes from occurring.

Salinas officers "constantly have to respond to calls for service," McMillin
said. "Ninety-five percent of what we do is reactive."

Analyzing data

Another technology unveiled last year by the department was "situation
awareness" hardware and software that helps police see in real time which
officers are in the area, where they're headed and who might respond to a crime
scene.

The department is still working on deploying that technology and related
radio-based GPS systems with the help of the Naval Postgraduate School in
Monterey.

But McMillin said that implementing that system, called Blue Force Tracking, is
not high on his priority list at this point. Getting more patrols on the streets
is, he said, echoing his ongoing pleas for funds to hire more officers.

Another data setback came last year when the department lost a crime analyst it
had just hired. Police were working with a nonprofit consultant on updating the
city's "problem analysis" report, which pulls together crime statistics, social
factors, educational levels and other data on shooters and their victims.

One such report for 2007-2010 revealed some eye-openers about local crime that
surprised seasoned crime experts here and in other areas.

For example, in San Francisco Bay Area cities troubled by youth violence, murder
victims and their killers were much more likely to know each other.

Other cities' shooters also had longer and more violent crime rap sheets
compared to Salinas' teenaged assailants, who often had no criminal records
before going after their victims.

That's the kind of information that if updated and expanded could help the city
focus its violence prevention and intervention efforts where they're needed
most.

McMillin said his department has found an analyst who passed the security
clearance needed to process crime information from ongoing investigations, but
it hasn't been able to pay her.

Julia Reynolds can be reached at 648-1187 orjreynolds@montereyherald.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ÒNinety-five percent of what we do is reactive,Ó said Salinas Police
Chief Kelly McMillin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Maps, maths, earthquakes and a city's winning formula in the war on crime

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: EXTRA; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1697 words


The LAPD has found a way to get the jump on trouble before it starts, and the
world is taking notice, writes US correspondent Nick O'Malley.

The morning watch at the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill division
begins at 6am, when the shift's officers gather for roll-call and a briefing.

The dozen or so officers file into the roll-call room and find space on the
benches. They are briefed on incidents from the previous shift, and on any
offenders or vehicles they might be looking for. Then, before they hit the
streets, each team is a handed a simple A4 map, warm from an office printer.

It doesn't look like much, but the maps are the result of more than half a
decade's work by anthropologists and pure and applied mathematicians from two
leading American universities, funded by supporters including the US Army and
Navy.

Marked on the maps are a series of little red boxes outlining 150-metre-long
squares superimposed over the streets they will patrol through the shift. The
boxes indicate, with spooky accuracy, where the division's most common crimes
are most likely to be committed during the 12-hour shift.

The Predictive Policing project, or Pred Pol, as it has become known, has been
so successful in cutting crime rates since it was tested in Foothill in 2011
that it has spread to seven other LA police divisions, with more to come.
Another 20 or so police departments across the US have signed on, as have
departments in Britain.

It is understood at least one Australian force is in talks to sign up, though
its creators decline to discuss potential customers.

One of the driving forces behind Pred Pol is Dr Jeff Brantingham, an
anthropologist at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), who
struggled bravely to find simple-enough language to describe the science behind
the technology.

Crime prediction is not a new field. All street cops know the crime hot spots on
their beat, and larger police forces have been employing crime analysts and
software to assist them for years. It has been successful, too. The standard
measure of accuracy for crime prediction is multiplications of random. Current
techniques are usually effective about three times random. Pred Pol is twice as
effective, accurate to six times random. And it is likely to improve.

Brantingham, a former archaeologist who never lost the interest in crime
ingrained in him by his criminologist parents, says the key insight that
informed early work on Pred Pol was to tackle crime prediction via mathematics,
rather than the social sciences.

Usually, crime analysts look at crime patterns combined with social and
geographical factors. They would look at a particular area's crime history,
demographic make-up, the location of transport and late-opening bars that might
attract potential crooks - mostly young men - and victims.

Pred Pol strips all that away. It simply feeds three different factors - crime
type, time and location - through the dizzyingly sophisticated equations and
algorithms the team has created.

"The problem with considering [things such as] how many open bars there are is
that it misses the point," Brantingham says. "The key information is the number
of assaults or robberies, and you already know that."

The team began in 2005 by considering crime through a spatial rather than social
lens. If you consider a potential criminal and a potential target to be, for
example, two atoms floating in a body of fluid, what factors would cause them to
meet - and how and when? And, later, what other factors might interrupt that
meeting?

Working with Brantingham, UCLA's applied mathematics department began
investigating models that described events such as chemical reactions and the
way substances diffuse in fluid. Even fish migration predictions came up in the
discussion.

Soon the LAPD had become involved. Brantingham had appealed to the department
for access to crime data, and had feared he might be met with old-guard
suspicion. Instead, the department threw itself into the project.

At the time, the LAPD suffered from an awkward problem: crime was falling
relentlessly across the city and had been for a few years. The city that had
registered 1092 murders in a single year two decades ago lost just 298 of its
citizens to violence in 2012, when it became the safest big city in the US.

This was good news for citizens, but since the only real measure of a police
force's success is lower year-on-year crime rates, it meant innovation was
needed to keep up the momentum. As one officer puts it, all the low-hanging
fruit had gone.

The then LAPD chief, William Bratton, not only supplied the UCLA team with any
data they asked for, but also assigned one of his captains, Sean Malinowski, to
work with them. He even kicked in extra funding.

"Whenever anyone starts talking about data, I tend to get the mission,"
Malinowski says. This is probably because the 48-year-old cop has a PhD in
public policy. Data and statistics don't scare him and he can speak basic
academic.

The next breakthrough came when Brantingham's collaborator, Dr George Mohler,
now an assistant professor of mathematics and computer science at Santa Clara
University, discovered that equations used in mapping the aftershocks of
earthquakes could be manipulated to map crime. Mohler's discovery had the
dramatic effect of allowing the team to quickly apply their theory and create a
working model of Pred Pol. With hindsight, Brantingham says, the link between
seismology and crime makes sense. Research already showed how criminal events
caused their own aftershocks, such as when burglars returned to homes or streets
where they had already had success.

Before each 12-hour shift, or watch, begins in Foothill, a senior officer logs
in to Pred Pol with a password and calls up the maps for the coming hours on a
desktop computer.

Software runs up-to-date and historical crime data through Pred Pol's algorithms
and spits out that shift's crime "boxes", which are all printed neatly on a
Google map.

The operator can also pull up historical crime records going back hours or days,
weeks or months.

So far the system in use predicts and maps only car theft, burglary from a car,
and burglary, because these constitute more than 60 per cent of crime.

The team is working to expand into gun crime and homicide.

In the long run, it is feasible that the technology could allow police to enter,
say, the time and location suspects are seen on the street and instantly be fed
background material, such as what their gang affiliation is likely to be, and
how that gang fits into the broader criminal ecology of the area.

The technology is already so sophisticated that police on patrol could be given
their own logins and pull up even more detailed maps via smartphones or tablets.
The boxes could be ranked for risk and police could even watch them move slowly
across the map during the watch. As police attention focused on particular
boxes, they could change colour as the risk of crime abated with police
presence.

So far, the developers believe that could lead to information overload. Police
are basically hunters, Brantingham says. Should the boxes be ranked, they would
focus on the top tiers.

Besides, says Andrea Bertozzi, UCLA's head of applied maths and the lead
mathematician on Pred Pol, the folded piece of paper is good technology for its
purpose.

When police on patrol have time to spare, they are directed to spend time in
their allocated boxes. The beauty is the simplicity. They are not distracted by
interacting with new technology or equipment.

Police report that once in their boxes they find themselves "hyper-alert",
Malinowski says. They take note of who is around, they talk to shopkeepers and
home owners, they check on suspicious activity. Their goal in the boxes is not
so much to catch crooks - though that has happened - but to suppress crime.

Malinowski dismisses early criticism that the program might simply diffuse
crime, saying new research showed that the type of crooks they were after, such
as car thieves, were opportunistic, and often give up in the face of risk. "We
are not talking about committed criminals like a serial rapist," he says.

As Brantingham puts it: "It is not too hard to convince them back home to their
Xboxes."

The American Criminal Law Review has raised the concern that the program could
warp crime statistics, either by increasing the arrest rate in the boxes through
extra policing, or falsely reducing it through diffusion.

Civil-rights groups are taking the former concern seriously because designating
an area a crime hot spot can be used as a factor in formulating "reasonable
suspicion" for stopping a suspect.

Malinowski says so far there is no evidence of an increase of civil-rights
complaints, and the statistics clearly show crime is decreasing.

In a six-month test in Foothill when the division used Pred Pol strictly - that
is, Pred Pol alone was used for crime prediction, rather than in concert with
the department's analysts - crime rates dropped by 12 per cent overall and 25
per cent for car theft. In a later six-month period, when other intelligence
types were used, crime rates rose, he says.

The results are so dramatic that the force's chief, Charlie Beck, is backing
further research, not only to refine the technology but to push it into new
crime areas. In effect, Malinowski says, Beck has so much confidence in the
model, he is allowing the researchers to use parts of the city as a laboratory
to study crime prediction. And his confidence is mirrored around the country and
the world as other police forces adopt the technology.

Because the system uses such basic data, the technology is easily transferable
and blind to cultural difference, Brantingham says. Once the team has access to
a police department's computer system, they can be online within a couple of
weeks, he says.

The research has clearly made a splash at UCLA, which is enjoying not only new
sources of research funding but also the flow of Pred Pol subscription fees.

In February, Bertozzi was awarded a new named chair, one of the university's
highest honours.

UCLA cited her work on the unique mathematics behind Pred Pol as one of her the
department's key successes.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New beat: LA police are issued predictive policing maps (right).
Photo: Getty Images; MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                 First Edition

To predict and to serve: the future of law enforcement

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: EXTRA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1721 words


The Los Angeles Police Department has joined forces with academics to develop a
statistical model that maps crime before it happens, writes Nick O'Malley.

The morning watch at the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill division
begins at 6am, when the shift's officers gather in their midnight blue uniforms
for roll-call and a briefing.

The dozen or so officers file into the roll-call room and find space on the
benches. They are briefed on major incidents from the previous shift and on any
offenders or vehicles they might be looking for. Then, before they hit the
streets, each team is a handed a simple A4 map, warm from an office printer.

It doesn't look like much but the little printed maps are the result of more
than half a decade's work and research by anthropologists and pure and applied
mathematicians from two leading American universities, funded by supporters
including the US Army and US Navy and working hand-in-hand with the LAPD.

Marked on them are a series of little red boxes - 150-metre-long squares
superimposed over the streets they will patrol through the shift. The boxes
indicate, with spooky accuracy, where the division's most common crimes are most
likely to be committed during their 12-hour shift.

The Predictive Policing project, or Pred Pol as it has become known, has been so
successful in cutting crime rates since it was first tested in Foothill in 2011
that it has spread to seven other LA police divisions, with more to come.
Another 20 or so police departments around America have signed on, as have
departments in Britain.

It is understood at least one Australian police service is in talks to sign up,
though its creators decline to discuss potential customers.

One of the driving forces behind Pred Pol is Jeff Brantingham, an anthropologist
at the University of California, Los Angeles, who, as he guided Fairfax around
the leafy UCLA campus, struggled bravely to find simple enough language to
describe the science behind the technology.

Crime prediction is not a new field. All street cops know the crime hot spots on
their beat and larger police forces have been employing crime analysts and
software to assist them for years. It has been successful, too. The standard
measure of accuracy for crime prediction is multiplications of random. Current
techniques are normally effective at about three times random. Pred Pol is twice
as effective, accurate to six times random. And it is likely to improve.
Brantingham, a former archaeologist who never lost the interest in crime
ingrained in him by his criminologist parents, says the idea that informed early
work on Pred Pol was to tackle crime prediction using mathematics rather than
the social sciences.

Normally, crime analysts look at crime patterns combined with social and
geographical factors. They would look at a particular area's crime history,
demographic make-up, the location of transport and late-opening bars that might
attract potential crooks - mostly young men - and victims.

Pred Pol strips all that away. It simply feeds three factors - crime type, time
and location - through the dizzyingly sophisticated equations and algorithms the
team has created.

"The problem with considering [things like] how many open bars there are is that
it misses the point," Brantingham says. "The key information is the number of
assaults or robberies and you already know that."

The team began in 2005 by considering crime through a spatial, rather than
social, lens. If you consider a potential criminal and a potential target to be,
for example, two atoms floating in a body of fluid, what factors would cause
them to meet - and how, and when? And, later, what other factors might interrupt
that meeting?

Working with Brantingham, UCLA's applied mathematics department began
investigating models that described events such as chemical reactions and the
way substances diffuse in fluid. Even fish migration predictions came up in
discussion.

By now the LAPD had become involved. Brantingham had appealed to the department
for access to crime data and had feared he might be met with old-guard
suspicion.

Instead, the department threw itself into the project.

At the time the LAPD suffered from an awkward problem - crime was falling
relentlessly across the city and had been for a few years. The city that had
registered 1092 murders in a single year two decades ago lost just 298 of its
citizens to violence last year, when it became the safest big city in the US.

This was good news for citizens but since the only real measure of a police
force's success is lower year-on-year crime rates, it meant innovation was
needed to keep up the momentum. As one officer puts it, all the low-hanging
fruit had gone.

The then LAPD chief William Bratton not only supplied the UCLA team with any
data they asked for, he assigned one of his captains, Sean Malinowski, to work
with them. He even kicked in extra funding.

"Whenever anyone starts talking about data, I tend to get the mission,"
Malinowski says. This is probably because the 48-year-old cop has a PhD in
public policy. Data and statistics don't scare him and he can speak basic
academic.

The next breakthrough came when Brantingham's collaborator, George Mohler, now
an assistant professor of mathematics and computer science at Santa Clara
University, discovered that equations used in mapping the aftershocks of
earthquakes could be manipulated to map crime.

Mohler's discovery had the dramatic effect of allowing the team to quickly begin
applying their theory and creating a working model of Pred Pol. With hindsight,
Brantingham says, the link between seismology and crime makes sense.

Research already showed how criminal events caused their own aftershocks, such
as when burglars returned to homes or streets where they had already enjoyed
success.

Before each 12-hour shift, or watch, begins in Foothill, a senior officer logs
into Pred Pol and calls up the maps for the coming hours on a desktop computer.

Software instantly runs up-to-date and historical crime data through Pred Pol's
algorithms and spits out that shift's crime "boxes", all printed neatly on a
Google map.

Clicking on a toolbar, the operator can also pull up historical crime records
going back hours or days, weeks or months.

So far the system in use predicts and maps only car theft, burglary from cars
and burglary, because these constitute more than 60 per cent of all crime. The
team is working to expand into gun crime and homicide in the near future.

In the long run it is feasible the technology could allow police to enter, say,
the time and location a suspect is seen on the street, then instantly be fed
background material, such as what their gang affiliation is likely to be and how
that gang fits into the broader criminal ecology of the area.

The technology is already so sophisticated that police on patrol could be given
their own logins to pull up even more detailed maps using smartphones or
tablets. The boxes could be ranked for risk and police could even watch them
move slowly across the map through the shift.

As police attention focuses on particular boxes, they could change colour as the
risk of crime abates with police presence.

The developers believe that could lead to information overload. Police are
basically hunters, Brantingham says. Should the boxes be ranked, they would
focus on the top tiers.

Besides, says the lead UCLA mathematician on the project, Andrea Bertozzi, the
folded piece of paper is actually good technology for its purpose.

When police on patrol have time to spare they are directed to spend time in
their allocated boxes. The beauty is the simplicity. They are not distracted by
interacting with new technology or equipment.

Police report that once in their boxes, they find themselves "hyper alert"
Malinowski says. They take note of who is around, they talk to shopkeepers and
home owners, they check on suspicious activity. Their goal in the boxes is not
so much to catch crooks - though that has happened - but to suppress crime.
Malinowski dismisses early criticism that the program might simply diffuse
crime, saying new research showed the type of crooks they were after, such as
car thieves, were opportunistic and would often give up in the face of risk. "We
are not talking about committed criminals like a serial rapist," he says.

As Brantingham puts it: "It is not too hard to convince them back home to their
Xboxes."

The American Criminal Law Review has raised concerns the program could warp
crime statistics, either by increasing the arrest rate in the boxes through
extra policing or falsely reducing it through diffusion.

Civil rights groups are taking the former concern seriously because designating
an area a crime hot spot can be used as a factor in formulating "reasonable
suspicion" for stopping a suspect. Malinowski says there is no evidence of an
increase in civil rights complaints and the statistics clearly show crime is
decreasing.

In a six-month test in Foothill, when the division used Pred Pol strictly - that
is, Pred Pol alone was used for crime prediction, rather than in concert with
the department's analysts - crime rates dropped by 12 per cent overall and 25
per cent for car theft. In a later six-month period, when other intelligence
types were used, crime rates began to climb, Malinowski says.

The results are so dramatic the LAPD's current chief, Charlie Beck, is backing
further research, not only to refine the technology but to push it into new
crime areas.

In effect, says Malinowski, Beck has so much confidence in the model he is
allowing the researchers to use parts of the city as a laboratory to study crime
prediction. And his confidence is mirrored around the country and the world as
other police forces adopt the technology.

Because the system uses such basic data, the technology is easily transferable
and is blind to cultural difference, Brantingham says.

Once the team has access to a police department's computer system, they can be
online within a couple of weeks, he says.

The research has clearly made a splash at UCLA, which is enjoying new sources of
research funding and the flow of Pred Pol subscription fees.

Last month, Professor Bertozzi was honoured with a new named chair, one of the
university's highest awards.

UCLA cited her work on the maths behind Pred Pol as one of the department's key
successes.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MAP: LAPD officers outside police headquarters in February, and
(far right) a predictive map. PICTURE: GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

San Jose crime rate surpasses U.S. average, arrests plummet

BYLINE: By Mike Rosenberg mrosenberg@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local

LENGTH: 913 words


SAN JOSE -- Just how bad has crime gotten in San Jose? Once known as America's
Safest Big City, the capital of Silicon Valley has a higher crime rate than
California or the United States as a whole, while the city's police force is
catching half as many criminals as it did just a few years ago.

That's according to a new analysis by the city's independent auditor, which also
found the city was clearing a far lower percentage of crimes than the average
U.S. city and had seen police response time for some emergency calls more than
double in eight years.

The new data come as the six major candidates for mayor each jockey to make
public safety their top priority heading into the wide-open June primary. And
police Chief Larry Esquivel, sworn in last week, confronts a department with low
morale as officers continue to flee for better-paying jobs elsewhere.

"What we're seeing is the effect of 10 years of skyrocketing costs" for police
officers, Mayor Chuck Reed said of the depleted force. "I believe it has an
impact on the crime rate -- I think we're seeing that in the deterioration of
services. We need more officers."

Among the findings from auditor Sharon Winslow Erickson's annual report:

San Jose's major crimes rate was 35 percent below the U.S. and California
averages a decade ago. But last year, it climbed to 3,278 major crimes per
100,000 residents, 3 percent above the California average and 1 percent above
the U.S. average, and higher than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Police made about 17,000 arrests last year, down from roughly 36,000 in 2007.

Response times for Priority Two emergency calls, such as attempted rapes and
gang disturbances, have shot up from 8.2 minutes in 2005 to more than 20 minutes
in 2013.

While the average U.S. police department solves nearly half its major cases, San
Jose's clearance rate on major crimes has fallen to 30 percent.

San Jose's crime rate is still far lower than those of San Francisco and
Oakland. And an unusually large share of San Jose's crimes are burglaries,
vehicle thefts and other property crimes, while its violent crime rate is still
lower than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Several mayoral candidates are vying to recapture San Jose's oft-boasted "safest
big city" award, bestowed by independent groups until 2006.

The politics are tricky, however, as voters want both crime and taxes to stay
low.

To balance its budget, the city imposed a 10 percent pay cut for police
officers, and voters approved city employee pension cutbacks last year. But San
Jose has lost or laid off hundreds of officers, and its active duty force has
dropped to about 920 officers. Erickson said the dwindling police force has
likely contributed to the recent sharp drop in arrests.

The City Council last week approved a 10 percent pay restoration for police
officers, while the Police Officers Association union is fighting the pension
changes in court.

"Every (mayoral) candidate will fall over themselves to tell voters how they
will restore staffing in the Police Department," said one mayoral candidate,
Councilman Sam Liccardo. "The truth is that none of us will. It's going to take
a lot of time no matter who is in office -- the question is, 'What are we going
to do in the meantime?'"

Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave Cortese, the union-backed mayoral candidate,
wants the city to spend more on its employees to beef up the police force and
increase morale. Termed-out Reed's five City Council allies running to replace
him -- Pete Constant, Rose Herrera, Liccardo, Madison Nguyen and Pierluigi
Oliverio -- have backed the more moderate approach officials have taken in
recent years, saying controlling employee cost is vital to keeping services,
including police, intact.

"We can talk all we want about rebuilding the Police Department, but the reality
is, if we don't have the financial resources to do so, we're not going to do any
meaningful reform," said Nguyen, a strong backer of pension reform.

But while voters have preached fiscal restraint in the past, now they are
increasingly aware of the police problems, too.

A new city-sponsored scientific survey of 219 San Jose residents, cited in the
report, found that 27 percent of respondents had a member of their household who
was a victim of a crime last year, up from 12 percent each of the prior two
years. Favorability ratings for the Police Department also fell from 61 percent
two years ago to 51 percent now, while fewer people said they felt safe around
town and in their own neighborhoods.

Among the candidates' ideas: Constant wants to spend a bigger portion of the
budget on police; Liccardo favors implementing predictive policing software;
Nguyen is seeking to re-establish the burglary unit; and Herrera wants more
administrative staffers to free up officers for field work.

"I don't think San Jose can take for granted that it's always going to be a safe
city," Herrera said. "It takes a lot of work."

Contact Mike Rosenberg at 408-920-5705. Follow him atTwitter.com/RosenbergMerc
.Average police clearance rates for major crimes:
San Jose: 30 percent
U.S.: 47 percent
California: 44 percent

Arrests by San Jose police:
2007: 36,172
2012: 17,278

Emergency calls to San Jose police
July 2009-June 2010: 368,905
July 2012-June 2013: 454,919

Average San Jose police priority two emergency response times
2005: 8.2 minutes
2013: 20.3 minutes
Source: San Jose Office of the City Auditor, annual
report:http://www.sanjoseca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24941 (police section starts
on page 83)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

San Jose crime rate surpasses U.S. average, arrests plummet

BYLINE: By Mike Rosenberg mrosenberg@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 913 words


SAN JOSE -- Just how bad has crime gotten in San Jose? Once known as America's
Safest Big City, the capital of Silicon Valley has a higher crime rate than
California or the United States as a whole, while the city's police force is
catching half as many criminals as it did just a few years ago.

That's according to a new analysis by the city's independent auditor, which also
found the city was clearing a far lower percentage of crimes than the average
U.S. city and had seen police response time for some emergency calls more than
double in eight years.

The new data come as the six major candidates for mayor each jockey to make
public safety their top priority heading into the wide-open June primary. And
police Chief Larry Esquivel, sworn in last week, confronts a department with low
morale as officers continue to flee for better-paying jobs elsewhere.

"What we're seeing is the effect of 10 years of skyrocketing costs" for police
officers, Mayor Chuck Reed said of the depleted force. "I believe it has an
impact on the crime rate -- I think we're seeing that in the deterioration of
services. We need more officers."

Among the findings from auditor Sharon Winslow Erickson's annual report:

San Jose's major crimes rate was 35 percent below the U.S. and California
averages a decade ago. But last year, it climbed to 3,278 major crimes per
100,000 residents, 3 percent above the California average and 1 percent above
the U.S. average, and higher than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Police made about 17,000 arrests last year, down from roughly 36,000 in 2007.

Response times for Priority Two emergency calls, such as attempted rapes and
gang disturbances, have shot up from 8.2 minutes in 2005 to more than 20 minutes
in 2013.

While the average U.S. police department solves nearly half its major cases, San
Jose's clearance rate on major crimes has fallen to 30 percent.

San Jose's crime rate is still far lower than those of San Francisco and
Oakland. And an unusually large share of San Jose's crimes are burglaries,
vehicle thefts and other property crimes, while its violent crime rate is still
lower than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Several mayoral candidates are vying to recapture San Jose's oft-boasted "safest
big city" award, bestowed by independent groups until 2006.

The politics are tricky, however, as voters want both crime and taxes to stay
low.

To balance its budget, the city imposed a 10 percent pay cut for police
officers, and voters approved city employee pension cutbacks last year. But San
Jose has lost or laid off hundreds of officers, and its active duty force has
dropped to about 920 officers. Erickson said the dwindling police force has
likely contributed to the recent sharp drop in arrests.

The City Council last week approved a 10 percent pay restoration for police
officers, while the Police Officers Association union is fighting the pension
changes in court.

"Every (mayoral) candidate will fall over themselves to tell voters how they
will restore staffing in the Police Department," said one mayoral candidate,
Councilman Sam Liccardo. "The truth is that none of us will. It's going to take
a lot of time no matter who is in office -- the question is, 'What are we going
to do in the meantime?'"

Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave Cortese, the union-backed mayoral candidate,
wants the city to spend more on its employees to beef up the police force and
increase morale. Termed-out Reed's five City Council allies running to replace
him -- Pete Constant, Rose Herrera, Liccardo, Madison Nguyen and Pierluigi
Oliverio -- have backed the more moderate approach officials have taken in
recent years, saying controlling employee cost is vital to keeping services,
including police, intact.

"We can talk all we want about rebuilding the Police Department, but the reality
is, if we don't have the financial resources to do so, we're not going to do any
meaningful reform," said Nguyen, a strong backer of pension reform.

But while voters have preached fiscal restraint in the past, now they are
increasingly aware of the police problems, too.

A new city-sponsored scientific survey of 219 San Jose residents, cited in the
report, found that 27 percent of respondents had a member of their household who
was a victim of a crime last year, up from 12 percent each of the prior two
years. Favorability ratings for the Police Department also fell from 61 percent
two years ago to 51 percent now, while fewer people said they felt safe around
town and in their own neighborhoods.

Among the candidates' ideas: Constant wants to spend a bigger portion of the
budget on police; Liccardo favors implementing predictive policing software;
Nguyen is seeking to re-establish the burglary unit; and Herrera wants more
administrative staffers to free up officers for field work.

"I don't think San Jose can take for granted that it's always going to be a safe
city," Herrera said. "It takes a lot of work."

Contact Mike Rosenberg at 408-920-5705. Follow him atTwitter.com/RosenbergMerc .

Average police clearance rates for major crimes:

San Jose: 30 percent
U.S.: 47 percent
California: 44 percent


Arrests by San Jose police:

2007: 36,172
2012: 17,278


Emergency calls to San Jose police

July 2009-June 2010: 368,905
July 2012-June 2013: 454,919


Average San Jose police priority two emergency response times

2005: 8.2 minutes
2013: 20.3 minutes
Source: San Jose Office of the City Auditor, annual
report:http://www.sanjoseca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24941 (police section starts
on page 83)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: San Jose police investigation, August 2013: A police officer shot at a
suspected grocery store robber allegedly brandishing a weapon. The suspect then
surrendered. (Gary Reyes/Bay Area News Group)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                             Government Technology

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

LAPD Tests Situational Awareness Tool

BYLINE: Sarah Rich, Government Technology

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


Oct. 15--Mobile and touchscreen mapping technologies are some of the latest
innovations that the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is using to improve
situational awareness in the city.

To more effectively oversee patrol areas and move past paper maps, the LAPD has
been piloting TouchShare, a solution that produces real-time visual geospatial
information that is collected and mapped out on a single screen. The combined
data gives officers at the command center an aerial vantage point of large-scale
events and the ability to zoom in and out on what's displayed. Police can
communicate with one another on any changes or updates based off the information
seen on the screen.

"TouchShare lets everyone view and contribute to what others are seeing in real
time and ensures that everyone has the most accurate, current and relevant data,
so emergency situations can be dealt with quickly and precisely," said
TouchShare CEO Bob Pette, in a statement.

According to LAPD Officer Chris Bouse, the LAPD first tested TouchShare during
the 2011 NBA All-Star Game and its related activities in Los Angeles. For the
game, the LAPD laid out a map of the entire venue and used it to mark all of the
facility's surveillance camera positions, personnel positions and where certain
smaller events within the entire event were taking place. Bouse added that
having a more comprehensive visual also helped with pre-planning in case a
disaster occurred.

Since 2011, the LAPD has continued testing the technology for various events.
But Bouse explained that ideally, the department would like to expand the
technology's use for other law enforcement work, including predictive policing
and emergency preparedness.

"It's one of those things where the potential of it is almost limitless," Bouse
said. "It's going to be one of those products that doesn't do just one thing."

Future Use

The LAPD would like to use TouchShare in a variety of other ways. One idea on
the table is to connect all police departments in California over satellite,
enabling agencies to use TouchShare to better coordinate rescue efforts and
request supplies during a disaster situation.

If personnel all have access to TouchShare, the LAPD's command center can send
out real-time visual imagery to officers in the field to help with faster
response. If response plans need to change, the command center can make
adjustments based on what they're seeing.

LAPD command staff also use iPads to connect personnel and view TouchShare maps.
But according to Bouse, budgetary challenges may limit further expansion.

___ (c)2013 Government Technology Visit Government Technology at www.govtech.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131015-1GT-LAPD-Tests-Situational-Awareness-Tool-1015-20131015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GT


                                 Copyright 2013


                               13 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                              Emergency Management

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday

LAPD Tests Situational Awareness Tool

BYLINE: Sarah Rich, Emergency Management

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 447 words


Oct. 16--Mobile and touchscreen mapping technologies are some of the latest
innovations that the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is using to improve
situational awareness in the city.

To more effectively oversee patrol areas and move past paper maps, the LAPD has
been piloting TouchShare, a solution that produces real-time visual geospatial
information that is collected and mapped out on a single screen. The combined
data gives officers at the command center an aerial vantage point of large-scale
events and the ability to zoom in and out on what's displayed. Police can
communicate with one another on any changes or updates based off the information
seen on the screen.

"TouchShare lets everyone view and contribute to what others are seeing in real
time and ensures that everyone has the most accurate, current and relevant data,
so emergency situations can be dealt with quickly and precisely," said
TouchShare CEO Bob Pette, in a statement.

According to LAPD Officer Chris Bouse, the LAPD first tested TouchShare during
the 2011 NBA All-Star Game and its related activities in Los Angeles. For the
game, the LAPD laid out a map of the entire venue and used it to mark all of the
facility's surveillance camera positions, personnel positions and where certain
smaller events within the entire event were taking place. Bouse added that
having a more comprehensive visual also helped with pre-planning in case a
disaster occurred.

Since 2011, the LAPD has continued testing the technology for various events.
But Bouse explained that ideally, the department would like to expand the
technology's use for other law enforcement work, including predictive policing
and emergency preparedness.

"It's one of those things where the potential of it is almost limitless," Bouse
said. "It's going to be one of those products that doesn't do just one thing."

Future Use

The LAPD would like to use TouchShare in a variety of other ways. One idea on
the table is to connect all police departments in California over satellite,
enabling agencies to use TouchShare to better coordinate rescue efforts and
request supplies during a disaster situation.

If personnel all have access to TouchShare, the LAPD's command center can send
out real-time visual imagery to officers in the field to help with faster
response. If response plans need to change, the command center can make
adjustments based on what they're seeing.

LAPD command staff also use iPads to connect personnel and view TouchShare maps.
But according to Bouse, budgetary challenges may limit further expansion.

___ (c)2013 Emergency Management Visit Emergency Management at
www.emergencymgmt.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131016-1EM-LAPD-Tests-Situational-Awareness-Tool-1016-20131016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1EM


                      Copyright 2013 Emergency Management


                               14 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                December 6, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cracking crime with help of a computer;
PREDPOL: Can algorithms really predict where thieves and burglars will strike?

BYLINE: Shams Al-Shakarchi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 647 words


COULD a computer predict where crimes are about to happen in Tonbridge? It is
not quite Spielberg's Minority Report but it could be the future of policing.

Pioneered in Los Angeles, Predictive Policing was adopted by Kent Police a year
ago as a way to combat crime more effectively as well as meet the public's
demands to see more bobbies on the beat. 1

With tighter budgets and fewer resources, this 21st century model allows the
force to patrol the right areas at the right time with the aim of reducing
crime.

The Los Angeles Police Department has already hailed the groundbreaking
technology a success. Historic crime figures specific to Kent and academic
research into criminal behaviour are input into a computer where an algorithm
produces data telling officers were offences are likely to happen.

Chief Constable Ian Learmonth told the Courier: "It's about being in the right
place at the right time. Priority "We can configure it to what is a priority for
us at the time. In the summer there was a lot more violence.

But it can be reconfigured to vehicle crimes, anti-social behaviour or
burglaries.

"If you are a victim of crime there is an increased likelihood of being a victim
in the few weeks after. "For instance in a burglary, the burglar would know the
layout of your house and where the belongings are. They would know you would
have replaced the goods stolen."

He added: "In LA, their statistics were fantastic. They went to their worst
performing division and got a 13 per cent reduction in crime." Kent Police carry
out a PredPol "high profile blitz" four or five times a day. The latest was on
Friday when 300 officers and police staff - for example those who work in the
finance department - patrolled specific PredPol zones. These zones measuring 500
square feet are patrolled by two officers for 15 minutes at a time.

The zone is continuously patrolled over a 12 hour period.

In August's PredPol day, arrests were made for assault, possession of drugs and
carrying a knife. It also led to a 10 per cent reduction in crime over the next
24 hours as well as a drop in calls to police.

Chief Constable Learmonth said: "People ask if we get a 10 per cent cut in
crime, why don't we do it every day? "We don't have the resources to be able to
do that. We can do it every four to five months, especially at times of
particular challenges, for example burglaries. That's an issue for us.

Presents "The nights are drawing in, Christmas presents are being left under the
trees, people are out and about more. For people who are not officers, it's not
their day job. They really look forward to it as they're coppers for the day.
They wouldn't be rugby tackling people to the ground, but they have their
high-vis jackets and can offer advice."

Positive about 'digging down' THE Courier joined Inspector Sonia Lassnig and
PCSO Linda Baker in PredPol Zone Q - covering Trench Road and Northwood Road in
Tonbridge.

The area was identified by the PredPol computer as being at high risk of crime.
The pair spent 15 to 20 minutes walking around speaking to local residents.
While no arrests were made or houses raided, the presence of the policewomen
seemed to have a positive effect on the neighbourhood.

PCSO Baker, who has been with the force for 27 years, said: "It's nice for
residents to see us. They sometimes come out of their houses and have a chat
with us.

Inspector Sonia Lassnig, an officer for 22 years, has seen how the force has
changed and adapted over the years and says residents are still positive about
the service they get.

She said: "I think people are quite realistic. They don't expect us to come out
with our super hero capes on.

"They know we would do all we can.

"It's about being satisfied with the service.

"When we do service checks everyone says they understand we have got a difficult
time but they are positive about us.

When we dig down, people do understand."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLICING: On patrol around the Trench Road area with Ins Sonia Lossnig
and PCSO Linda Baker TWLD20131129A-008_C
FAITH IN TECHNOLOGY: Kent Police Chief Constable Ian Learmonth
TWLD20131129A-007_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSC


                     Copyright 2013 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Crunching numbers to catch bad guys; UCLA researchers develop algorithm to
predict crime

BYLINE: Mariam Ibrahim, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 961 words


When it comes to predicting crime, at least part of the answer may lie with
earthquakes.

Much like seismologists use one earthquake to predict its aftershocks, a team of
researchers at the University of California-Los Angeles is using a complicated
algorithm to help police figure out when and where the next likely break-in or
mugging will happen.

"It's not that earthquakes cause crime," says Andrea Bertozzi, a professor in
the university's department of applied mathematics. "It's that earthquakes
trigger other earthquakes, and crime also triggers other crime."

She recently gave a lecture at the University of Alberta on the topic of
mathematics and crime.

Using ideas from the earthquake-prediction model, the UCLA researchers are
"looking at new crimes possibly being spun off from existing crimes - the
after-crimes," Bertozzi says.

The intent is to arm police with information on how to best use their thinly
stretched resources in neighbourhoods where crimes are most likely to happen.

In Edmonton, police have been using IBM business analytic technology since 2005.

Using math to predict and solve crimes might seem like part of a plot from the
television drama NUMB3RS, but for the researchers it makes perfect sense.

Most police agencies already keep data on when and where break-and-enters,
robberies and other crimes are happening. Bertozzi and the team at UCLA, which
is funded by the U.S. National Science Review **Correction: U.S. National
Science Foundation**, take that data and, coupled with years of past records,
feed it into a model that will give police a time and place to focus their
efforts.

Police in Edmonton have used an intelligence-focused policing model for more
than eight years, but haven't begun to use any one tool to focus on the when and
where of crimes.

Instead, the department relies on a variety of sources - data mining, crime
mapping and officer-gathered intelligence - to figure out which neighbourhoods
officers should patrol.

"Although we do have these tools, it's pulling them all together and combining
that with the human elements of our crime analysts, our division commanders and
our patrol members, that really helps us make those decisions about where to
deploy on a daily basis and where to deploy for specific initiatives," says
Joanne Graham, director of business intelligence for the Edmonton Police
Service.

The math works because humans are creatures of habit - even the ones trying to
evade police.

"People are going to work, visiting relatives, they're going to places they
routinely visit, and then a crime of opportunity happens," Bertozzi says.

In the same way, a criminal might break into a house then return to the same
neighbourhood because they've become familiar with the surroundings. It could be
the thief knows homes on one side of a street are vulnerable because of a broken
street light. Or perhaps he has passed a tip to a criminal accomplice.

"It's about being comfortable in your environment, identifying targets and using
the knowledge you have," Ber-tozzi says.

Of course, there are major differences between aftershocks and so-called
after-crimes, which is why the algorithm is so useful.

"While you may have a big earthquake, you're not necessarily expecting the
aftershock to have the same magnitude," Bertozzi explains.

"With crime data, that's not the case. We're looking at crimes that could be
related to an initial crime, but could be equally bad to the initial crime or
even worse."

Poring over the crime data reveals patterns, Bertozzi says, which puts that
information somewhere between completely random and 100-percent predictable. The
research uses mathematics to try to bridge that gap between random and
predictable.

In 2011, the Santa Cruz po-ice department, which hadn't been following a
predictive policing model, tested software developed by the UCLA researchers.
Officers were given a list of locations and times and were told to patrol those
areas whenever they weren't responding to calls.

In one month, the department saw crime drop by 27 per cent.

In 2005, Edmonton police began seriously working toward a policing model based
on intelligence and smart resource deployment. The department adopted a
geographic deployment model that saw patrol squads assigned to specific
districts to foster a sense of ownership. At the same time, the department began
using IBM analytic software that crunches crime data, helping identify trends.

"It lets us take a close look at what's happening, when is it happening, where
is it happening and who is involved," Graham says.

The department has set a target for 25 per cent of patrol officers' time to be
spent doing proactive work, she says.

Division commanders use data reports, crime-mapping tools and intelligence
gathered from beat cops to pinpoint where officers should work proactive
patrols.

"By setting aside that 25 per cent time, we're saying to patrol officers: 'It's
important for you to obviously respond to calls, both emergency and
non-emergency calls, but we have an expectation that you're going to undertake
activities to both prevent and suppress crime,' " Graham says.

Since 2007, the crime rate in Edmonton has dropped, with robberies,
break-and-enters and car thefts on a steady downward trend, according to
Statistics Canada. Graham doesn't attribute that strictly to mathematical and
analytic tools, "but it did allow us to be smarter about how we did our
policing."

While Bertozzi recognizes the crime-prevention software isn't a substitute for
traditional police work, she does see it as "one tool in their arsenal of tools
to deter and solve crime.

"That's where we think the win is here - one could potentially use resources
more efficiently if one pays attention to the data."

mibrahim@edmontonjournal. com

Twitter.com/mariamdena

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2013



CORRECTION: ***A team of researchers at the University of California - Los
Angeles using mathematics to predict crime is funded by the U.S. National
Science Foundation. Incorrect information appeared on C3 of Saturday's Journal.
***

GRAPHIC: Shaughn Butts, Edmonton Journal; UCLA Prof. Andrea Bertozzi is applying
the powerful tools of mathematics and big data analysis to mapping crime
patterns - with implications for crime prevention.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                               Canterbury Adscene

                                  May 16, 2013

Computer predictions tell officers where to go

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 203  words


A High-tech predictive software program that  brought down crime rates in the
USA has been taken up by  Kent Police.

Police chiefs have rolled out ground-breaking policing scheme PredPol across the
county after a successful trial in Swale.

It is the only UK force to have introduced "predictive policing" after it was
shown to have reduced crime in parts of the US by up to 17 per cent.

Officers worked closely with the Los Angeles police department to understand the
program, which uses similar technology to that which predicts earthquakes.

Using historic crime data and human behaviour analysis, the system predicts
areas where offences are likely to take place. Officers receive updates from the
system twice a day and then decide where to patrol. Its aim is to  increase
visibility and reduce crime.

Kent Police Chief Constable Ian Learmonth, who has led the implementation of the
scheme, said it analyses data to identify those locations where crime and
antisocial behaviour are most likely to occur.

He said predictive policing   addresses  the root causes of crime and antisocial
behaviour rather than looking solely at the symptoms, and will be used as a
tactical option as part of the force's current policing model.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 264


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

AT RISK: Santa Cruz crime among state's highest

BYLINE: Jason Hoppin, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2624 words


April 07--SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz is one of the most uncommon pockets of the
country, full of natural gifts and a unique culture that have given the funky
seaside town a global reputation.

It also is teeming with thieves.

According to FBI statistics, Santa Cruz's reputation isn't the only outsized
thing about the place. It also has a significant crime problem, with the highest
property crime rate in California among medium and large cities.

But cars, bikes and backpacks aren't the only thing at risk here: Santa Cruz
also has a higher violent crime rate than all but eight cities in the Golden
State. People are more likely to become a victim here than in Los Angeles, San
Francisco or Vallejo, not to mention Central Coast neighbors Salinas and
Watsonville.

"I did not expect this. It's the craziest thing," said Oakland native and
student Zach Rokeach, a UCSC junior studying environmental studies and biology,
as he locked up his bike downtown. "It is surprising to me for Santa Cruz. I
thought it was just a laid-back beach town."

Kristin Onorato, 30, said she was not surprised because she has friends in the
law enforcement community who tell her about the city's crime issues. Onorato,
who suspects drugs and poverty are behind the numbers, does not want Santa Cruz
to become known for crime.

"I don't want to walk around here feeling unsafe. My boyfriend lives in Stockton
and we never just go out for a stroll because Stockton has

that reputation for being unsafe," she said. "I would hate for this little city
to be that same way."

A RUN OF MAYHEM

A spate of high-profile violent crimes have renewed a debate that's ebbed and
flowed in Santa Cruz since at least the 1970s: what to do about almost
shockingly high levels of crime.

Less than a year ago, downtown business owner Shannon Collins was slain by a
mentally ill homeless man as she walked from her hairdresser. In February, a
series of incidents jolted the city: a UCSC student was shot in the head during
a Westside robbery, a man was gunned down outside a downtown bar and, finally,
two officers were ambushed and killed during a routine follow-up to a groping
complaint.

The deaths of detective Sgt. Loran "Butch" Baker and detective Elizabeth Butler
-- the first police officers killed in the line of duty in the city's nearly
150-year history -- are what have given the ongoing debate about public safety
unusual weight. Between the two officers, they left behind five children, and
their March 7 funeral brought thousands of officers and political luminaries to
San Jose's HP Pavilion.

The city's crime problem is nothing new. The 2011 property crime rate -- one
reported incident for every 18 residents -- that tops all California cities is
less than half of what it was 25 years ago, but the number has consistently been
higher than the state's. And since the early 1990s, the city's violent crime
rate has trended higher than the rest of California.

What makes Santa Cruz stand out is how unique it seems among a list of
high-crime cities. It lacks the complexity of Oakland, Stockton or other
high-crime communities with serious poverty issues, places that don't share the
same affluence, property values or age demographics as Santa Cruz.

"These places have been blighted communities for a long, long time, and they
share a lot of common characteristics," said Erik Bovee, a local technology
investor who approached the Sentinel with the FBI stats. "Santa Cruz doesn't
share those."

Bovee said he has brought the numbers to the attention of numerous local
officials, and was frustrated to see them dismissed. A former resident of big
cities on the East Coast and in Europe, Bovee said he does not feel safe in
Santa Cruz.

"It's the most dangerous place that I've lived or worked in," he said.

CRIME FACTORS

Many things affect crimes rates, and criminologists and the FBI caution the
statistics are not an accurate picture of public safety. The figures measure
offenses reported to police, and do not take into account the validity of the
report or crimes that were never brought to police attention.

While the statistics are a snapshot of crime in 2011, Santa Cruz police say they
saw a drop in assaults, burglaries and thefts in 2012. Property crimes are also
on a downward trend, sitting at less than 40 percent of what they were in 1985,
with the 2008 rate being the lowest in the past 25 years.

Police and others say there are several factors that make the city an outlier.
Tourism swells the city's population, particularly on sunny summer weekends.
UCSC brings thousands of youths and young adults to town, away from home for the
first time. And it has a relatively high number of liquor licenses, an ongoing
topic of debate.

"I am convinced that you cannot benchmark Santa Cruz to any other city," Santa
Cruz Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark said. "You can't. We're an anomaly."

But many communities must deal with impacts of the state's $100 billion tourism
industry. And many are no strangers to colleges, with 35 state-run, four-year
and graduate schools across California, 112 community colleges and scores of
private institutions.

The offenses driving both rates upward are thefts and assaults, and countywide
they seem unique to Santa Cruz. Watsonville rates rank 33rd for violent crimes
and 53rd for property crimes among cities with a population of 35,000 and
greater. And if the unincorporated area of the county were a city, it would rank
in the bottom half statewide for both categories.

Rates for the smaller cities of Capitola and Scotts Valley are both far less
than Santa Cruz's.

COMMUNITY OUTCRY

Lately, an increasing number of Santa Cruzans are raising their voices about
crime, with the group Take Back Santa Cruz -- the name implies a city adrift --
emerging as a social and political force during a dark period. Co-founder Pamela
Comstock is among the City Council's newest members.

"The level of criminal activity going on in our town is unacceptable," said
Santa Cruz City Councilman David Terrazas, who chairs the council's public
safety committee. "I'm confident this City Council is taking on this issue and
the community is no longer tolerant of crime that it may have tolerated in the
past."

The debate is not completely new. It dates to at least the 1970s, when a city
consultant famously penned a report on "undesirable transient elements," or UTEs
-- a term later co-opted by protesters to city policies.

"I think it's been, for lack of a better word, sort of a roller-coaster issue,"
said longtime City Councilman Don Lane. "In my time in this community there have
been periods of great concern about crime, and at other times it's less of a
concern.

"This is not a new phenomenon."

But tackling crime in Santa Cruz is a complex task. The very things that give
the city its cultural identity -- not just its famed tolerance, but its vibrant
nightlife and global draw as a tourist destination -- also contribute to the
problem.

"We actually do a lot of work to encourage people to come here to have fun.
That's one of our main industries," Lane said. "But when people are on vacation
they do drink, and they sometimes use drugs. Let's not mince words about this:
This is a town to come and play. But there's a cost to that."

Drugs also often are named as a culprit, particularly methamphetamine and
heroin. A court system seen as lenient is also a frequent target, as is the
county's suite of social service offerings.

'MANIFESTATION OF NEGLECT'

There are ongoing debates about what role the police play in preventing crime.
Some 1990s-era studies concluded that standard approaches -- more officers,
preventive patrols and faster response times -- were basically ineffective,
spurring experimentation in how best to reduce crime. Santa Cruz's predictive
policing model is one example.

But the crime reduction factor that comes up is the role Santa Cruzans
themselves must play.

"Part of that is what have we taught our community and what have we tolerated,"
Clark said, saying the city is reaping what he called "the manifestation of
neglect."

"Santa Cruz is a compassionate place, and it's great. I love that," he said.
"But compassion without accountability is nothing more than enabling. And we are
seeing that play out before our very eyes."

That echoes comments by former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta at the funeral for
Baker and Butler. Speaking of their accused killer and the numerous red flags
that arose before he made his way to Santa Cruz, Panetta said too many people
"looked the other way."

"We live in a society now ... where everybody hangs by their iPhone or their
computer, and there's a lot of turning inward and not enough attention to the
people around you," Panetta said in a later interview with the Sentinel.

Experts say shaking that passiveness is key to preventing crime. From telling
errant teens to knock it off to calling out criminal behavior, UC Irvine
criminologist Charis Kubrin said "informal social controls" are effective
deterrents.

"A community that's vibrant, with residents out and about, that has a lot of
things going on, is much less likely to have crime because these people serve as
the eyes and ears of the community," Kubrin said. "Minding your own business is
not good for the community."

BUSY DEPARTMENT

The Santa Cruz Police Department is not resting on its laurels. In 2011, the
department averaged 11.1 arrests per sworn officer a year, according to FBI
statistics, among the highest in the state and a figure that easily beats larger
cities such as Berkeley, Oakland and San Francisco, each of which averaged fewer
than four per officer. And Santa Cruz averages more arrests than cities such as
Sacramento and San Bernardino, which have similar ratios of police to residents.

Nor is the department understaffed when measured against the population (though
police argue that measure is skewed due to the high number of tourists). There
is one sworn officer for every 697 residents, 22nd in the state. Furthermore,
what resources the department has are on the street -- the ratio of civilian
staff to sworn officers is third-lowest in California.

MANY HOMELESS

Santa Cruz also has a high number of transients, and the killers of both Collins
and officers Baker and Butler were recent transplants to Santa Cruz. The
transient issue is 40 years old, but the debate over it -- Do social services
attract the homeless? Are the homeless responsible for much of the crime? --
rages on.

A staunch supporter of homeless services, Lane says there's no question that
some transients, but not all, contribute to the problem.

"There are people who are kind of making their way through existence by petty
crime," Lane said. "But I think it's important to recognize that's a distinct
subpopulation."

He disputes the belief, closely held by some, that homeless services bring
homeless people to the area.

"I don't think people are choosing to come great distances because the [free]
dinner in Santa Cruz is better than the dinner in Salinas," Lane said.

And Kubrin said you cannot draw a correlation between social services and crime.
In fact, she said they are key to rehabilitation, and should help reduce crime.

"What you will not find is [that] it's causing crime," Kubrin said. "I cannot
think of a study that would show that."

A CITY, ITS POLICE

In a city with an anti-establishment streak, the Santa Cruz Police Department
and residents have sometimes had an uneasy relationship. The department has
cultivated officers who match the community and continues to do so, and is in
the midst of an exhaustive search for new recruits.

"This is a very political community. Maybe a 'politicized' community is a better
word," Lane said. "The Police Department has always been cognizant of dealing
with what the community attitudes are, and it's always kind of wrestling with
that."

After the deaths of Baker and Butler, Supervisor Zach Friend, a former crime
analyst with the Santa Cruz Police Department, called for a "rebirth" in the
relationship between the city and its police.

Friend said he sees the ongoing public safety conversation as growing pains,
with the city having shifted on its axis in the 1970s, from a conservative,
growth-happy area known for fishing to a politically charged, liberal bastion.

"This to me is part of the discussion and growth of a community that really
isn't that old," Friend said.

The responsibility for preventing crimes falls on many shoulders, he said.

"By the time a law enforcement officer knows your child's name, a lot of
elements of society have failed that child. The police are really the parent of
last resort."

Speaking of his former police colleagues, Friend added: "They feel like they're
asked to accomplish an impossible task, often with very limited resources and in
some sections of the community with little support. But it isn't their job to
vocalize that."

MARIJUANA ISSUE

In 2006, Santa Cruz voters passed Measure K, which not only made marijuana a
lesser law enforcement priority but limited the Police Department's ability to
work with the Drug Enforcement Agency on pot cases.

At the time, voter outrage at the DEA over its participation in the infamous
raid on the Wo/Men's Alliance for Medical Marijuana was still high. But Measure
K's practical impact was to limit police cooperation with the DEA on all drug
investigations, including going after top-level suppliers, Clark said.

"The fact that Santa Cruz has such a large drug problem and gives away twice as
many needles than all of Santa Clara County transcends anything the Police
Department or City Council can control," Clark said.

Cutting off the supply might help change the city's drug-friendly reputation.
But cutting off demand and getting more people into treatment would make that
easier, and could lead to declines in drug-related property crimes.

"Addiction is a disease that needs treatment and that can really be seen when we
see a transformation in people and get them back to a place where they are
stable and back with families and working," said Carolyn Coleman, executive
director of Santa Cruz Community Counseling Center and an appointee to Mayor
Hilary Bryant's new task force on public safety. "We think all these services
are geared toward public safety."

WHAT'S NEXT

The City Council is taking up the crime issue this week, and adding to the
fabric of community concerns is a state prisoner shift that some feared would
mean more crooks roaming the streets. Oakland, which has by far the highest
violent crime rate in the state, recently hired former New York City top cop
Bill Bratton, the godfather of zero tolerance-style policing, as a consultant.

But the hammer of the criminal justice system is not the only way to fix a crime
problem. Kubrin said there's no evidence yet that the prison realignment has led
to an uptick in crime. And locking people up isn't the answer, she added.

"Overreliance on incarceration is very problematic in California," Kubrin said.
"You cannot incarcerate your way out of a crime problem. There are diminishing
returns after awhile."

Ultimately, Clark said, crime isn't about numbers at all, but a sense of place.
With so many factors at play, it comes down to whether people feel secure in the
place where they live.

"How good do you feel about where you live and what you do? Not just Santa Cruz,
but there are a lot of communities at a crossroads about this," Clark said. "My
whole time that I've been here, Santa Cruz has always found a way to figure it
out and move forward."

Reporter J.M. Brown contributed to this report. Follow Sentinel reporter Jason
Hoppin on Twitter at Twitter.com/scnewsdude

___ (c)2013 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130407-QC-AT-RISK-Santa-Cruz-crime-among-state-s-highest-0407-20130407

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2013 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               18 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Glendale News-Press (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

Glendale police induct first-ever female commander, new deputy chief

BYLINE: Veronica Rocha, Glendale News-Press, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 721 words


Sept. 13--Top management positions in the Glendale Police Department are
changing, starting with the promotion of a longtime captain and the induction of
the department's first-ever female commander.

Carl Povilaitis, a 22-year Glendale police veteran, was promoted Wednesday from
captain to deputy chief and Theresa Goldman, 49, moved up from her position as
the dispatch center administrator to become the department's commander of the
Administrative Services Division.

"These are very important positions in our leadership chain of command and it's
important that we selected the right individuals to fulfill these roles," Police
Chief Ron De Pompa said.

Povilaitis, 47, who is a longtime Glendale resident, started his career in law
enforcement with the Glendale Police Department, where he has spearheaded major
projects including the development of command areas, predictive policing and
real-time crime analysis.

As the new deputy chief, Povilaitis will continue to oversee his current duties
in the investigation division as well as manage all day-to-day operations of the
department.

"This is a can-do organization," he said. "Everybody in this organization works
so hard. It's not what can't we do or why can't we do it, it's how can we get it
done."

His new role will let De Pompa focus more on administrative duties, working with
the legal team as well as actively interacting with the community, according to
Police Sgt. Tom Lorenz.

"This is a very special position, at least in my eyes, because he will truly be
my right-hand man," De Pompa said. "But truth be known, Carl has kind of been my
right-hand man throughout my tenure as chief."

Stepping in to oversee organizational duties, Goldman, a non-sworn police
employee, will use her experience to supervise fleet services as well as
communications, the jail, records, budget and evidence rooms.

She will also represent the city on the governance board for the Interagency
Communications Interoperability System, which delivers interoperable radio
communication to the Los Angeles region.

"I look forward to the challenges," Goldman said. "I am learning a great deal
about the different bureaus here. I like what I see. I like the work that is
being done and I look forward to bringing it to the next level."

The idea of allowing a non-sworn employee to oversee a great amount of the
department's operations wasn't immediately welcomed by some city officials,
especially after they learned the staffer would have command over certain police
functions.

The position, which is supposed to save the city $75,000 annually, is on the
same tier as a captain, which means Goldman will be allowed to act as police
chief in the absence of De Pompa during an emergency.

However, she would act as a policy marker, just as the police chief would, and
she would not be in command at any scene during an emergency, Lorenz said,
adding that tactical commanders would cover those responsibilities.

Goldman said she is confident in making decisions and consulting others when
it's needed as well as deferring to sworn officials.

"I know what they do, but I don't do what they do," she said.

Still, Goldman has logged more than 30 years in law enforcement, starting at the
Burbank Police Department and then with Beverly Hills police, where she
developed knowledge of handling dispatch duties and technology projects.

Officials said her move to the command tier may open the way for other
professional staffers to move up in the department.

The latest promotions are part of De Pompa's extensive changes, including the
creation of two pools of generalist detectives, this year in the police
department.

De Pompa announced his retirement in February and city officials opened an
extensive search for his replacement.

He continues to work on an hourly basis until a new chief is selected. Last
month, 43 candidates turned in applications or were recruited for the
department's top position.

Capt. Todd Stokes will continue to manage operations for the Field Services
Division, while Capt. Mike Rock will supervise the Support Services Division,
which includes internal affairs, crime analysis and the air support and traffic
bureau.

___ (c)2013 the Glendale News-Press (Glendale, Calif.) Visit the Glendale
News-Press (Glendale, Calif.) at www.glendalenewspress.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130913-1GL-Glendale-police-induct-first-ever-female-commander-new-deputy-chief
-0913-20130913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GL


                       Copyright 2013 Glendale News-Press


                               19 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

Reading taps new technology to predict and prevent crime

BYLINE: Don Spatz, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 439 words


Oct. 18--It won't replace city police officers' intuition. It's several
techno-steps beyond the crime-mapping Reading has been doing for 30 years. It's
not criminal profiling.

And it's not psychic.

But PredPol claims its software technology can tell police when and where the
next crimes are likely to occur, within a few blocks.

"We are always seeking ways to improve our ability to fight crime in our city --
in this case, preventing it before it happens," Mayor Vaughn D. Spencer said at
a press conference Thursday. "This technology is a force multiplier."

PredPol was developed by a California firm and is used by several West Coast
cities.

Its two test cities -- Los Angeles and Santa Cruz, Cal. -- saw 12 to 25 percent
drops in burglaries and auto thefts in the first six months of use.

Reading, the first Northeastern city to use it, has been working with it for a
month to reduce property crimes.

Police Chief William M. Heim said officers discovered a car theft and a burglary
in progress while patrolling areas where crime was predicted to occur.

Those may or may not be attributable to PredPol, he said, but the city has a
two-year contract and should know by then how well it works,

The city paid $38,500 from a federal grant for the setup and two years of use.

"We had a pretty robust crime-mapping capability to establish the hot spots and
let police officers know where to take proactive measures," Heim said. "It
worked really well, and we thought we were on the cutting edge."

Then came high-tech predictive policing, with a growing number of providers in
the industry, such as PredPol.

So how does it work?

Algorithms.

Those essentially are hugely complex math formulas that combine data of past
crimes with known patterns of criminal behavior to predict where the next one
will occur.

The city fed 10 years of crime data into the PredPol system and now updates it
twice a day.

In return, it gets a map, sprinkled with 500- by 500-foot squares showing where
and when the next crime might occur.

Police move into that area, patrolling, talking with people, perhaps not full
time but to establish a greater presence.

You can't count a crime that didn't occur as a measure of the system's success,
but Heim said he'll be happy if there's a 20 percent drop in burglaries in areas
that PredPol pinpointed and police took proactive measures.

There's no replacement for good police work, he said.

"But this is quite an enhancement," he added.

Contact Don Spatz: 610-371-5027 or dspatz@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2013 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20131018-RE-Reading-taps-new-technology-to-predict-and-prevent-crime-1018-201310
18

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2013 Reading Eagle


                               20 of 29 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                                August 16, 2013

LA law proves a success in Kent

LENGTH: 455  words


by James Snaith

jsnaith@thekmgroup.co.uk

@KM_newsroom

A tactical Los Angeles-style of policing - which predicts crime before it
happens - has seen street violence in north Kent slashed by 6% and is now being
introduced across the county.

Sounding more like something out of a Hollywood blockbuster than traditional
crime-fighting, the idea originated in the Californian city.

It has now been adopted by police here as a way of cutting anti-social
behaviour, drug dealing and street violence.

PredPol uses software which reads the latest science, maths and human behaviour
data to show the county's top hotspot areas affected by crime.

Officers are then sent to patrol targeted high-risk zones - sometimes as small
as half the size of a football pitch - with the aim of tackling crime before it
happens.

Mark Johnson, Kent Police's head of analysis said: "Every day the system is fed
new crime data, which is updated to produce new zones officers will target each
day.

"It won't change the way policing is done but it will predict crime in high-risk
areas across the county in a targeted way so it helps us police more
effectively.

"We've had an intelligence-led approach to crime in Kent for the last 25 years.
This new system does not replace that, but will enhance it."

A recent three-month pilot in north Kent saw levels of street violence fall by
6% when predictive policing was introduced.

Chief Constable Ian Learmonth said he was pleased with the results so far and is
confident it will work across the county.

He said: "Instead of just doing a random patrol, the data tells us to go to a
zone which is known to have recent levels of crime."

It means more of a police presence in areas that have some of the highest levels
of criminality.

Mr Learmonth said: "The officers have enjoyed it because it takes them back to
the policing style some joined to do.

"Officers are out, visible, doing foot patrols, engaging with the community,
talking with the residents and they are dealing with the crimes they see as an
added bonus. The public want to see visible policing on the streets. This allows
us to do that."

The idea is backed by the county's police commissioner Ann Barnes, who gave the
green light to the innovative project when she was chairman of the police
authority last year.

She accepted that if crime levels are to continue to fall in Kent more targeted
policing would need to happen as cuts to the force by the coalition government
continue.

She said: "When you have nearly 500 officers fewer on the streets you have to
put your officers where they will be best used and the most effective.

"It's just ordinary policing but this targeted system will give a better chance
of our officers stopping crimes taking place before they happen."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 29 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Weeklies

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 514 words


Predicting the future is standard practice for weather forecasters, economists,
think tanks and business.

Now the police are finding their own way of mapping crime before it even happens
- reminiscent of Tom Cruise film, Minority Report.



The software, PredPol - which stands for predictive policing - has been brought
to north Kent from California for its first UK trials.

In Santa Cruz and Los Angeles, where the software was first tested in 2011,
crime dropped by 27 per cent and 12 per cent respectively in the first six
months.

It began as an academic project seven years ago involving mathematicians, social
scientists and an anthropology professor whose goal was to understand how crime
hotspots occur.

They found that by using a mathematical algorithm similar to one for predicting
earthquake aftershocks they could create predict where crimes would happen.

Speaking to The Reporter from Santa Cruz, Jeff Brantingham, anthropology
professor at the University of California, explains: "When there is an
earthquake you see a lot about how it produces aftershocks. In general they
occur near in time and place to a main shock. Crime is very much the same. When
a burglar breaks into a house it makes the chance of crime occurring close by
much more likely."

The PredPol software maps years of past crime data and is updated daily with the
location, time and type of crime committed.

From this it creates prediction boxes of precise 500 sq ft zones which are
listed in priority order as to where crimes are most likely to occur, which is
then delivered to the smart phones, tablets and PCs of police officers.

Brantingham explains the technology is more sophisticated than just highlighting
an area around a recent crime.

"If you were to look at the last seven days of crime you could see a pattern but
you can't put seven years of offences on one map. PredPol has the advantage of
analysing everything that has happened in those years and can select the crimes
likely to produce new offences," he says.

One problem raised is the ambiguity over whether police could stop and search
someone in a location flagged up by PredPol, but Brantingham stresses: "This
isn't Minority Report. That's about producing who, this is about where and
when."

Last week, Ch Insp Philip Painter, of Kent Police Gravesham division, introduced
the technology to councillors at a crime disorder meeting.

They were sceptical -- one worried that it would leave rural areas without
police cover, another was concerned it would mean job cuts.

However Ch Insp insisted rural areas do still have crime hot spots and would be
patrolled and that the technology would not lead to any cuts.

Kent Police were impressed by the drop in offences in California and invested
£125,000 into a trial across north Kent which will, if successful, go
county-wide.

Ch Insp Painter remembers patrolling Gravesend's Dickens Estate 15 years ago and
using pin maps to understand crime dynamics.

He is optimistic:  "PredPol is easy to use and easy to brief.

"It is unrealistic putting an officer on every corner. We have to be more
sophisticated."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KTM


                    Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

Alhambra Police Department first in nation to use Weibo, the Chinese Twitter

BYLINE: Zen Vuong

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 705 words


ALHAMBRA >> The Alhambra Police Department on Monday became the first U.S. law
enforcement agency to create a Weibo, or Chinese-language, Twitter account, a
spokesman said.

Weibo, a microblogging website, is one of the most popular social media tools in
China; Facebook and Twitter are blocked in mainland China.

Police Chief Mark Yokoyama said the multilingual project, which was conceived
about two months ago, will be the first time the Alhambra Police Department
releases official information in a language other than English.

As a part of our long-term strategy, we know that the population of Asian
immigrants to the United States is continuing to rise, and we know that s going
to continue in the San Gabriel Valley, and we know that s going to continue here
in Alhambra as well,  Yokoyama said.  And we also know that the population is
going to be younger, and with that younger population they re going to be using
social media such as Weibo.

About 53 percent of the residents in Alhambra are Asian, according to the 2010
U.S. Census. Of the city s 57,300 residents, about 30,000 are Chinese, Yokoyama
said.

The launch ofweibo.com/alhambrapolice arrived about 11 months after the Alhambra
Police Department started a Facebook account. Thefan page has about 1,600
likes.

Yokoyama said he is not sure how Weibo will affect his agency s ability to solve
crimes because the Alhambra Police Department doesn t keep an inventory of the
ethnic background of witnesses.

But the point of the Chinese social media website is to keep residents informed,
help community engagement and encourage people who might not otherwise speak to
the police to turn in tips, Yokoyama said.

Thanks to the Facebook fan page, a handful of crimes have been solved or avoided
since January, Yokoyama added.

In 2010 researchers at the USC Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism
surveyed Chinese, Latino and white Alhambra residents. Chinese residents scored
lowest when it came to feeling a sense of neighborhood belonging, collective
efficacy and civic participation.

Yokoyama said he has been working to make the Police Department more progressive
since he started in June 2011.

In January Alhambra became the first citywide agency to use Predictive Policing
orPredPol , a cloud-based software program that forecasts crime zones. After
four months, Yokoyama said residential theft decreased by 11 percent, car
burglaries by 20 and grand theft auto by 10.

Weibo is a  critical component of outreach to the Chinese community  and is a
way for the agency to increase trust, community and overall civic engagement,
Yokoyama said.

There is a segment of the population that really doesn t want to call the
police, but they feel comfortable sending a message,  he said.

The Alhambra Police Department is working on 9-1-1 texting. A beta version
should be released in about eight months, and a functional version should be out
next year, Yokoyama said.

The Alhambra Police Department partnered with Alhambra Source, a community news
website, after reading one of its articles about how to engage the Chinese
community.

Mayor Stephen Sham, a longtime Chinese advocate, was also involved in the
project.

Many of the Chinese community here, they re first generation or fresh
immigrants,  Sham said.  They re more concerned about their life, so we need to
provide a safe, comfortable community for them to live. Chinese immigrants go to
Chinese media, but (the Chinese media) can t report about our city every day. We
hope that through this, it ll allow them to be more comfortable to engage with
the police department.

About 90 percent of the agency s Weibo website will be a carbon copy of the city
s Facebook page, Yokoyama said. But the social media website will also address
concerns that are specific to the local and international Chinese community,
such as visa issues, he said.

While about 15 officers, including Yokoyama, update the Facebook fan page around
the clock. Weibo initially will have one page manager, Walter Yu, a volunteer
community outreach organizer.

The Police Department is looking for volunteers to help it deliver
department-approved messages.

Anyone who wants to join the Weibo conversation could use #WenMeiGuoJingCha
(#AskAmericanPolice).

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

Alhambra Police Department first in nation to use Weibo, the Chinese Twitter

BYLINE: Zen Vuong

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 705 words


ALHAMBRA >> The Alhambra Police Department on Monday became the first U.S. law
enforcement agency to create a Weibo, or Chinese-language, Twitter account, a
spokesman said.

Weibo, a microblogging website, is one of the most popular social media tools in
China; Facebook and Twitter are blocked in mainland China.

Police Chief Mark Yokoyama said the multilingual project, which was conceived
about two months ago, will be the first time the Alhambra Police Department
releases official information in a language other than English.

As a part of our long-term strategy, we know that the population of Asian
immigrants to the United States is continuing to rise, and we know that s going
to continue in the San Gabriel Valley, and we know that s going to continue here
in Alhambra as well,  Yokoyama said.  And we also know that the population is
going to be younger, and with that younger population they re going to be using
social media such as Weibo.

About 53 percent of the residents in Alhambra are Asian, according to the 2010
U.S. Census. Of the city s 57,300 residents, about 30,000 are Chinese, Yokoyama
said.

The launch ofweibo.com/alhambrapolice arrived about 11 months after the Alhambra
Police Department started a Facebook account. Thefan page has about 1,600
likes.

Yokoyama said he is not sure how Weibo will affect his agency s ability to solve
crimes because the Alhambra Police Department doesn t keep an inventory of the
ethnic background of witnesses.

But the point of the Chinese social media website is to keep residents informed,
help community engagement and encourage people who might not otherwise speak to
the police to turn in tips, Yokoyama said.

Thanks to the Facebook fan page, a handful of crimes have been solved or avoided
since January, Yokoyama added.

In 2010 researchers at the USC Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism
surveyed Chinese, Latino and white Alhambra residents. Chinese residents scored
lowest when it came to feeling a sense of neighborhood belonging, collective
efficacy and civic participation.

Yokoyama said he has been working to make the Police Department more progressive
since he started in June 2011.

In January Alhambra became the first citywide agency to use Predictive Policing
orPredPol , a cloud-based software program that forecasts crime zones. After
four months, Yokoyama said residential theft decreased by 11 percent, car
burglaries by 20 and grand theft auto by 10.

Weibo is a  critical component of outreach to the Chinese community  and is a
way for the agency to increase trust, community and overall civic engagement,
Yokoyama said.

There is a segment of the population that really doesn t want to call the
police, but they feel comfortable sending a message,  he said.

The Alhambra Police Department is working on 9-1-1 texting. A beta version
should be released in about eight months, and a functional version should be out
next year, Yokoyama said.

The Alhambra Police Department partnered with Alhambra Source, a community news
website, after reading one of its articles about how to engage the Chinese
community.

Mayor Stephen Sham, a longtime Chinese advocate, was also involved in the
project.

Many of the Chinese community here, they re first generation or fresh
immigrants,  Sham said.  They re more concerned about their life, so we need to
provide a safe, comfortable community for them to live. Chinese immigrants go to
Chinese media, but (the Chinese media) can t report about our city every day. We
hope that through this, it ll allow them to be more comfortable to engage with
the police department.

About 90 percent of the agency s Weibo website will be a carbon copy of the city
s Facebook page, Yokoyama said. But the social media website will also address
concerns that are specific to the local and international Chinese community,
such as visa issues, he said.

While about 15 officers, including Yokoyama, update the Facebook fan page around
the clock. Weibo initially will have one page manager, Walter Yu, a volunteer
community outreach organizer.

The Police Department is looking for volunteers to help it deliver
department-approved messages.

Anyone who wants to join the Weibo conversation could use #WenMeiGuoJingCha
(#AskAmericanPolice).

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday

The new age of algorithms: How it affects the way we live;
'Big Data' impacts how we work, elect our presidents, and play tennis. It also
affects the way we're watched.

BYLINE: Robert A. Lehrman Correspondent

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 4061 words


They work a few hundred yards from one of the Library of Congress's most prized
possessions: a vellum copy of the Bible printed in 1455 by Johann Gutenberg,
inventor of movable type. But almost six centuries later, Jane Mandelbaum and
Thomas Youkel have a task that would confound Gutenberg.

The researchers are leading a team that is archiving almost every tweet sent out
since Twitter began in 2006. A half-billion tweets stream into library computers
each day.

Their question: How can they store the tweets so they become a meaningful tool
for researchers - a sort of digital transcript providing insights into the daily
flow of history?

Thousands of miles away, Arnold Lund has a different task. Mr. Lund manages a
lab for General Electric, a company that still displays the desk of its founder,
Thomas Edison, at its research headquarters in Niskayuna, N.Y. But even Edison
might need training before he'd grasp all the dimensions of one of Lund's
projects. Lund's question:

How can power companies harness the power of data to predict which trees will
fall on power lines during a storm - thus allowing them to prevent blackouts
before they happen?

The work of Richard Rothman, a professor at Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore, is more fundamental: to save lives. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta predicts flu outbreaks, once it examines reports
from hospitals. That takes weeks. In 2009, a study seemed to suggest researchers
could predict outbreaks much faster by analyzing millions of Google searches.

Spikes in queries like "My kid is sick" signaled a flu outbreak before the CDC
knew there would be one. That posed a new question for Dr. Rothman and his
colleague Andrea Dugas:

Could Google help predict influenza outbreaks in time to allow hospitals like
the one at Johns Hopkins to get ready?

They ask different questions. But all five of these researchers form part of the
new world of Big Data - a phenomenon that may, for better or worse,
revolutionize every facet of life, culture, and, well, even the planet. From
curbing urban crime to calculating the effectiveness of a tennis player's
backhand, people are now gathering and analyzing vast amounts of data to predict
human behaviors, solve problems, identify shopping habits, thwart terrorists -
everything but foretell which Hollywood scripts might make blockbusters.
Actually, there's a company poring through numbers to do that, too.

Just four years ago, someone wanted to do a Wikipedia entry on Big Data.
Wikipedia said no; there was nothing special about the term - it just combined
two common words. Today, Big Data seems everywhere, ushering in what advocates
consider some of the biggest changes since Euclid.

Want to get elected to public office? Put a bunch of computer geeks in a room
and have them comb through databases to glean who might vote for you - then
target them with micro-tailored messages, as President Obama famously did in
2012.

Want to solve poverty in Africa? Analyze text messages and social media networks
to detect early signs of joblessness, epidemics, and other problems, as the
United Nations is trying to do.

Eager to find the right mate? Use algorithms to analyze an infinite number of
personality traits to determine who's the best match for you, as many online
dating sites now do.

What exactly is Big Data? What makes it new? Different? What's the downside?

Such questions have evoked intense interest, especially since June 5. On that
day, former National Security Agency analyst Edward Snowden revealed that, like
Ms. Mandelbaum or Rothman, the NSA had also asked a question:

Can we find terrorists using Big Data - like the phone records of hundreds of
millions of ordinary Americans? Could we get those records from, say, Verizon?

Mr. Snowden's disclosures revealed that PRISM, the program the NSA devised,
secretly monitors calls, Web searches, and e-mails, in the United States and
other countries.

The dark side of Big Data involves much more than Snowden's disclosure, or what
the US does. And what made Big Data possible did not happen overnight. The term
has been around for at least 15 years, though it's only recently become popular.

"It will be quite transformational," says Thomas Davenport, an information
technology expert at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., who co-wrote the widely
used book "Competing on Analytics: The New Science of Winning."

What exactly will it transform? To find out, let's go back to the beginning.

*     *     *

Big Data starts with ... a lot of data. Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt
has said that we now uncover as much data in 48 hours - 1.8 zettabytes (that's
1,800,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes) - as humans gathered from "the dawn of
civilization to the year 2003."

You read that right. The head of a company receiving 50 billion search requests
a day believes people now gather in a few days more data than humans have done
throughout almost all of history.

Mr. Schmidt's claim has doubters. But similar assertions crop up from people not
prone to exaggeration, such as Massachusetts Institute of Technology researcher
Andrew McAfee and MIT professor Erik Brynjolfsson, authors of the new book "Race
Against the Machine."

"More data crosses the Internet every second," they write, "than were stored in
the entire Internet 20 years ago."

A key driver of the growth of data is the way we've digitized many of our
everyday activities, such as shopping (increasingly done online) or downloading
music. Another factor: our dependence on electronic devices, all of which leave
digital footprints every time we send an e-mail, search online, post a message,
text, or tweet.

Virtually every institution in society, from government to the local utility, is
churning out its own torrent of electronic digits - about our billing records,
our employment, our electricity use. Add in the huge array of sensors that now
exist, measuring everything from traffic flow to the spoilage of fruit during
shipment, and the world is awash in information that we had no way to uncover
before - all aggregated and analyzed by increasingly powerful computers.

Most of this data doesn't affect us. Amassing information alone doesn't mean
it's valuable. Yet the new ability to mine the right information, discover
patterns and relationships, already affects our everyday lives.

Anyone, for instance, who has a navigation screen on a car dashboard uses data
streaming from 24 satellites 11,000 miles above Earth to pinpoint his or her
exact location. People living in Los Angeles and dozens of other cities now
participate, knowingly or not, in the growing phenomenon of "predictive policing
" - authorities' use of algorithms to identify crime trends. Tennis fans use IBM
SlamTracker, an online analytic tool, to find out exactly how many return of
serves Andy Murray needed to win Wimbledon.

When we use sites like SlamTracker, companies take note of our browsing habits
and, through either the miracle or the meddling of Big Data, use that
information to send us personal pitches. That's what happens when AOL greets you
with a pop-up ad (Slazenger tennis balls - 70 percent off!).

In their book, "Big Data: A Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work,
and Think," Kenneth Cukier and Viktor Mayer-Schönberger mention Wal-Mart's
discovery, gleaned by mining sales data, that people preparing for a hurricane
bought lots of Pop-Tarts. Now, when a storm is on the way, Wal-Mart puts
Pop-Tarts on the shelves next to the flashlights.

But what excites and concerns people about Big Data is more far-reaching than
that. One way of seeing the bigger picture: taking a closer look at some of the
people in the digital trenches.

*     *     *

I follow Mandelbaum and Mr. Youkel down a corridor of the Library of Congress,
past exhibits redolent of history and what you might expect from what we call
"America's library," with its 38 million books on 838 miles of shelving.

They open a door. We pass behind people staring at huge computer screens and
enter a room that doesn't look as if it belongs in a library at all. It's the
size of a gym, with fluorescent lights overhead and tall metal boxes rising from
the floor.

"The tweets come here," Mandelbaum says.

It's been three years since Twitter approached the library with a question. What
the online networking service started in 2006 had become a new way of
communicating. Would there, Twitter asked, be historical value in archiving
tweets?

"We saw the value right away," says Robert Dizard, deputy director of the
library. "[Our] mission is, preserve the record of America."

Certainly the record of what millions of Americans say, think, and feel each day
would be a treasure-trove for historians. But was the technology feasible, and -
important for a federal agency - cost-effective to handle the three V's that
form the fingerprint of a Big Data project - volume, velocity, and variety?

The library said yes. But the task is daunting.

Volume? It will archive 172 billion tweets in 2013 alone, about 300 each from
the world's 500 million-plus tweeters.

Velocity? That means absorbing more than 20 million tweets an hour, 24 hours a
day, seven days a week, each stored in a way that can last.

Variety? There are tweets from a woman who may run for president in 2016 - and
from Lady Gaga. And they're different in other ways.

"Sure, a tweet is 140 characters," says Jim Gallagher, the library's director of
strategic initiatives. "But there are 50 fields. We need to record who wrote it.
Where. When."

Because many tweets seem banal, the project has inspired ridicule. When the
library posted its announcement of the project, one reader wrote in the comments
box: "I'm guessing a good chunk ... came from the Kardashians."

But isn't banality the point? Historians want to know not just what happened in
the past but how people lived. It is why they rejoice in finding a semiliterate
diary kept by a Confederate soldier, or pottery fragments in a colonial town.

It's as if a historian today writing about Lincoln could listen in on what
millions of Americans were saying on the day he was shot.

Youkel and Mandelbaum might seem like an odd couple to carry out a Big Data
project: One is a career Library of Congress researcher with an undergraduate
degree in history, the other a geologist who worked for years with oil
companies. But they demonstrate something Babson's Mr. Davenport has written
about the emerging field of analytics: "hybrid specialization."

For organizations to use the new technology well, traditional skills, like
computer science, aren't enough. Davenport points out that just as Big Data
combines many innovations, finding meaning in the world's welter of statistics
means combining many different disciplines.

Mandelbaum and Youkel pool their knowledge to figure out how to archive the
tweets, how researchers can find what they want, and how to train librarians to
guide them. Even before opening tweets to the public, the library has gotten
more than 400 requests from doctoral candidates, professors, and journalists.

"This is a pioneering project," Mr. Dizard says. "It's helping us begin to
handle large digital data."

For "America's library," at this moment, that means housing a Gutenberg Bible
and Lady Gaga tweets. What will it mean in 50 years? I ask Dizard.

He laughs - and demurs. "I wouldn't look that far ahead."

*     *     *

Arnold Lund is looking ahead. Lund has a Ph.D. in experimental psychology. He
holds 20 patents, has written a book on managing technology design, and directs
a variety of projects for General Electric.

Last year, a tree fell on power lines behind my house. As the local utility
repaired things, an electrical surge crashed my computer, destroying all the
contents. Lund's power line project has my attention.

"For power companies, one of the largest expenses is managing foliage," he says.
"We lay out the entire geography of a state - and the overlay of the power grid.
We use satellite data to look at tree growth and cut back where there's most
growth. Then [we] predict where the most likely [problem] is. We have 50
different variabilities to see the probability of outage."

In that one compressed paragraph, I see three big changes Mr. Cukier and Mr.
Mayer-Shönberger say Big Data brings to research. It's what we might call the
three "nots."

Size, not sample. For more than a century, they point out, statisticians have
relied on small samples of data from which to generalize. They had to. They
lacked the ability to collect more. The new technology means we can "collect a
lot of data rather than settle for ... samples."

Messy, not meticulous. Traditionally, researchers have insisted on "clean,
curated data. When there was not that much data around, researchers [had to be
as] exact as possible." Now, that's no longer necessary. "Accept messiness,"
they write, arguing that the benefits of more data outweigh our "obsession with
precision."

Correlation, not cause. While knowing the causes behind things is desirable, we
don't always need to understand how the world works "to get things done," they
note.

Lund's lab exemplifies all three. First, his "entire geography" and 50 variables
involve massive sets of data - information streaming in from sensors,
satellites, and other sources about everything from forest density to prevailing
wind direction to grid loads. Second, he looks for "probability" not "obsessive
precision."

Correlation? Lund values cause, but the reason behind, say, tree growth
interests him less than spotting correlations that might spur action. "Ah - that
tree," he exclaims, as if he is an engineer in the field. "Better get the trucks
out ahead of the storm!"

Cukier and Mayer-Schönberger cite the United Parcel Service to bolster their
argument about correlation. UPS equips its trucks with sensors that identify
vibrations and other things associated with breakdowns. "The data do not tell
UPS why the part is in trouble. They reveal enough for the company to know what
to do."

Lund's boss, GE chief executive officer Jeff Immelt, also talks about sensor
data. The company is now investing $1 billion in software and analytics, which
includes putting sensors on its jet engines to help enhance fuel efficiency. Mr.
Immelt has said that just a 1 percent change in "fuel burn" can be worth
hundreds of millions of dollars to an airline.

"You save an oil guy 1 percent," Immelt said at a conference this spring,
"you're his friend for life."

While Lund has talked glowingly about how much data his projects can collect, he
wants to make sure I know data isn't everything. "As a scientist," he says, "I
know the biggest challenge is finding the right questions. How do you find the
questions important to business, society, and culture?"

*     *     *

Rothman has questions, too. "We work in emergency rooms," he says about himself
and Dr. Dugas. "We're the boots on the ground."

Rothman's work has involved emergency medicine and the nexus between public
health and epidemics, including influenza, which kills as many as 500,000 people
a year around the world and about 45,000 in the US.

The two researchers wanted to find out if the Google national study held lessons
for Baltimore and their emergency room (ER). They studied Google queries for the
Baltimore area - queries about flu symptoms, or chest congestion, or where to
buy a thermometer. If they could spot spikes, that might help solve one crucial
problem.

"Crowding," Dugas says. "Huge issue."

When epidemics start, people rush to hospitals. Waiting rooms fill up. "The
sheer volume of people means decreased care, errors, mortality," she says.

If Google trends showed a spike just as epidemics started, ERs could staff up
and reserve more space for the surge of patients. The link between Google spikes
and hospital visits in Baltimore turned out to be strong, especially for
children. As soon as the first news reports surfaced about the 2009 H1N1 virus,
pediatric ER visits at Hopkins increased - at the peak by as much as 75 percent.

But when the two researchers looked closer, they found something unexpected. No
flu. It turned out that news reports about H1N1 elsewhere fueled a rush to ERs
in Baltimore - what one researcher called "fear week."

"If you just looked at correlation for flu, you'd say it was a false trend,"
says Dugas.

Even so, she and Rothman found the data important for ERs: No matter why people
are coming in the door, they need to staff up. The Baltimore study also showed
the importance of finding out what was behind all those medically related Google
searches - in other words, not just correlation but cause.

Like GE's Lund, Rothman emphasizes the value of "the questions you're asking."

*     *     *

Evidence that Big Data promises enormous benefits is more than anecdotal. MIT's
Mr. Brynjolfsson did a study in 2012 examining 179 companies. He found those
whose decisions were "data-driven" had become 5 to 6 percent more productive in
ways only the use of data could explain.

On the other hand, consider just this one data point: If you type "Big Data Dark
Side" into Google, you'll get 40 million results. Despite the potential, there's
also peril.

The dark side of Big Data concerns Laura DeNardis, Internet scholar, author of
three books, and professor at American University's school of communication in
Washington. She and others worry - not exclusively - about three questions. Does
the new technology (1) erode privacy, (2) promote inequality, and (3) turn
government into Big Brother?

She points to public health data as one potential source of abuse. Her concern
echoes that of critics who fear that supposedly anonymous patient records are
not anonymous at all. As far back as the 1990s, a Massachusetts state commission
gave researchers health data about state workers, believing this would help
officials make better health-care decisions. William Weld, then governor of
Massachusetts, assured workers their files had been scrubbed of the data that
could identify them.

One Harvard University computer science graduate student took this promise of
privacy as a challenge. Using just three bits of data, Latanya Sweeney showed
how to identify everyone - including Weld, whose diagnoses, medications, and
entire medical history Ms. Sweeney, now a professor at Harvard, gleefully sent
to his office.

Today there are far more powerful ways to identify people from records supposed
to keep things private. And there are concerns other than our health records.
Dr. DeNardis worries about how much companies know about our social media
habits.

"Take a look at the published privacy policies of Apple, Facebook, or Google,"
she says. "They know what you view, when you make a call, where you are. People
consent to that by selecting 'I agree' to privacy terms. But how carefully are
they read?"

She's not alone. Jay Stanley of the American Civil Liberties Union describes one
example of what companies can do with what they know about us: "credit-scoring."

"Credit card companies," he wrote in a blog, "sometimes lower a customer's
credit card limit based on the repayment history of other customers at stores
where a person shops."

Do we want Master Card to lower our credit-card limits, thinking we're a risk,
just because people who frequent the stores we do don't pay their bills?

In addition to individual privacy, critics worry about Big Data's impact in more
expansive ways, such as the growing gap between rich and poor nations. Large
American companies can hire hundreds of data analysts. How can Bangladesh
compete? Will this aggravate the global digital divide?

Perhaps most worrisome to people at the moment is the government's use of Big
Data to monitor its own citizens, or others, in the name of national security.
"The American people," President Obama said a few days after the NSA story
broke, "don't have a Big Brother who is snooping into their business."

Did Obama mean George Orwell's term doesn't include governments secretly
monitoring calls, e-mails, audio, and video of citizens suspected of nothing?
Commandeering information from firms like Yahoo and Google?

The questions that arose from Snowden's revelations in June encompass issues of
privacy, confidentiality, freedom, and, of course, security. The Obama
administration argues that monitoring personal information keeps the country
safe, asserting that PRISM has helped foil 54 separate terrorist plots against
the US.

Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill dispute that number, though, and in recent weeks
momentum has been building in Washington to rein in the NSA. Not only has
support increased on the left and right to adopt more oversight of its
surveillance program, polls show a hardening of public opinion about snooping,
too.

Meanwhile, there is no doubt about the fury in other countries when the news
broke - especially in Germany, where critics have compared American monitoring
of foreigners' phone calls and e-mails with that of Stasi, the former hated East
German secret police.

In fact, some of those most upset about the NSA revelations include Americans
alarmed about what the new technology means outside US borders. Suzanne Nossel,
head of the PEN American Center, which works to free writers and artists around
the world imprisoned for free speech, worries about the government use of data
from private companies to stifle dissent.

"It's not new," she says, citing the Chinese dissident Shi Tao, imprisoned by
China in 2004 for posting political commentary on foreign websites, and still
locked up. "Yahoo China had assisted the Chinese government. They used [Yahoo
data] to convict him."

But then Ms. Nossel talks about the recent unrest in Turkey, where the Turkish
military shot and arrested dozens of protesters in Istanbul's Taksim Square. To
find more of what they called "looters," the Turkish government went to Twitter
and Facebook for help - and announced that Facebook was "responding positively,"
something Facebook has denied.

And Nossel sees a difference between 2004 and now. Talking about the most
repressive governments in the world, she argues that "the government ability to
sweep and search is [now] so great, it tips the scale. No technology on the side
of human rights advocates can confront it. That's new - and chilling."

*     *     *

What have we learned? There's a notable "Sesame Street" episode from years back
in which Cookie Monster wanders into a library and drives the librarian crazy by
asking over and over for a cookie. "This is a LIBRARY!" the librarian finally
screams, forgetting to whisper. "We have books! Just books!"

That's certainly been our image of what libraries do. "You can still find books
here," Mandelbaum reminds me, standing in a room full of processors.

But figures over the past decade seem to show that books - those rectangular
things with pages we turn - are slowly on the way out in the Digital Age. That's
less significant than it might seem, though. After all, we value books because
of the knowledge they hold. We've changed the way we convey knowledge many
times. Big Data is another source of knowledge. Will it become a more integral
part of tomorrow's libraries?

It is perhaps fitting that one of the "Sesame Street" characters most in tune
with the future is ... the Count. He counts everything. His role is to teach
kids the importance of counting. Big Data allows us to count everything - and
analyze what we find. But are numbers enough?

Brynjolfsson and Mr. McAfee compare Big Data to Leeuwenhoek's development of the
microscope in the 1670s. They are, after all, both tools. They let people see
lots of things that have always been around. Of course, the microscope also
prompted us to ask questions we could never ask before. Big Data does that, too.

Still, while Big Data can predict a flu outbreak or where trees fall, it can't,
by itself, resolve the economic and moral dilemmas we have. Whether to keep
power running, help patients faster, or preserve the record of America, Big Data
teaches us what's out there, not what's right.

There's nothing inherently wrong with Big Data. What matters, as it does for
Arnold Lund in California or Richard Rothman in Baltimore, are the questions -
old and new, good and bad - this newest tool lets us ask.

· Robert A. Lehrman is a novelist and former White House chief speechwriter for
Vice President Al Gore. Author of 'The Political Speechwriter's Companion,' he
teaches at American University and co-runs a blog, PunditWire.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Richmond police chief shares challenges of solving homicides

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley Contra Costa Times

SECTION: MY TOWN; Contra Costa; News; Local

LENGTH: 3814 words


In the wake of a rash of homicides, Richmond police Chief Chris Magnus on
Wednesday sent out an email to community and civic leaders detailing the
challenges and strategies investigators face in solving cases. The email
stresses the importance of witnesses' participation, which was reportedly key in
the recent capture of a man charged Tuesday with fatally shooting his neighbor
in 2009 in the Iron Triangle neighborhood.

The Richmond Police Department offers a $10,000 reward for information leading
to an arrest and conviction in unsolved homicide cases, regardless of how long
ago they occurred.

Here is a Magnus' email:

Dear City Council and other Richmond Community Members:

We have recently seen an increase in gun violence in Richmond -- much of it
associated with gang activity, some of it simply a result of "personal beefs"
between individuals. Unfortunately, gun violence frequently occurs in clusters
-- in many cases because incidents of retaliation follow the initial shooting --
and are very difficult to prevent.

I am often asked how the Police Department investigates these gun violence
cases, especially homicides, and why they are difficult to prevent and solve.
Here are some of the strategies and tools we use, as well as some of the
challenges we face:

Community Engagement: As an ongoing effort, well before a homicide or other gun
crime even takes place, our patrol and School Resource Officers (SROs) are out
in the community doing their best to build relationships, establish trust, make
contact with neighborhood residents, and develop information about dangerous
individuals who pose a threat to others. This is key to both preventing and
solving crimes.

Obviously, the community quickly hears about serious crimes after they occur
through the media, neighborhood blogs, and word-of-mouth. What most residents
don't know are the many crimes that are prevented because beat officers and SROs
develop information or engage in proactive field work, which allows them to
intervene ahead of the crime. These officers will make a key arrest, confiscate
a gun (our officers take an average of a gun off the street each day) or conduct
"compliance checks" to assure probationers and parolees are following the rules
that allow them to be back in the community.

Our personnel work closely with many community organizations that provide
services, or have a mission to prevent violence. They also engage the faith
community, school personnel and everyday residents to prevent and solve gun
crimes whenever possible.

Partnerships with other Law Enforcement Entities: RPD personnel work with many
other police, corrections and prosecution entities to address violent crime in
Richmond. This includes local jurisdictions close to us like San Pablo PD, El
Cerrito PD, the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Department (CCSO), BART PD and
others. It also includes the Contra Costa County Probation Department
(especially important based on the recent realignment of California's
corrections system that shifts responsibility for many offenders away from the
state and to the counties instead), as well the CDCR (State Corrections) Parole
Section. RPD also has a close relationship with personnel from several federal
agencies, including the FBI, ATF (Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms), the DEA, and
Customs (although we have no involvement with ICE -- the immigration section of
Customs).

Lastly, we work closely with county, state, and federal prosecution agencies,
including the Contra Costa District Attorney, the State Department of Justice
(DOJ), and the U.S. Attorney's Office. Most of our violent crime cases,
including homicides, are prosecuted (or evaluated for prosecution) under state
law by the DA's Office. Certain gun crimes are referred to the U.S. Attorney's
Office for prosecution under federal law when more serious sentencing options
are appropriate based on a pattern of ongoing violent crimes committed by the
offender.

Although the media often refer to many crimes in our immediate area as having
been "committed in Richmond," a great deal of our retaliatory gang violence
involves young men who live or hang out in unincorporated North Richmond --
which is not part of the City. Because of this, a significant number of gun
crimes associated with our larger community are the responsibility of the Contra
Costa County Sheriff's Department.

This means it's essential that RPD work closely with the Sheriff's Department.
When a shooting occurs, it's not uncommon for the perpetrators to flee from
Richmond into North Richmond, or vice versa. This complicates our ability to
make arrests and close cases, but despite this reality, our officers and
detectives communicate on an ongoing basis with CCSO deputies and investigators.
We also work regularly with investigators from the DA's Office.

The city of Richmond contracts with the DA's Office to have two assistant DAs in
our headquarters who focus exclusively on Richmond gun crimes and other criminal
cases. They work with our patrol officers and detectives to give special
attention to repeat violent offenders. They review cases, provide immediate
feedback, answer questions and provide training for our personnel that make our
officers more effective in dealing with violent crime.

The DA convenes regular meetings to discuss Richmond homicides and crime trends.
These meetings involve not only RPD personnel but lead investigators from other
local, state and federal jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of a new
protocol put in place in August of 2011, the DAs assigned to Richmond respond to
most homicide scenes to provide assistance as needed. This can help with
prosecution efforts later.

Crime Scene Investigations and Evidence Processing: Our department has 13
officers specifically trained as Crime Scene Investigators (CSIs). These
personnel are available 24/7 and respond to the scene of all homicides and many
other violent crimes. CSIs have many important responsibilities. They document
the physical nature and characteristics of crime scenes, which is painstaking
and can be quite time-consuming. This typically involves taking photographs,
collecting ballistic evidence (bullet casings, unexpended rounds, etc.),
gathering other evidence (clothing, items left behind by the offender), taking
latent prints when appropriate, and working closely with the other investigators
at the scene.

Processing crime scenes and evidence is very little like what's portrayed on
television. Evidence handling at a crime scene is complex. For example, people
sometimes wonder why the body of the deceased isn't moved or taken away from the
scene of a homicide more quickly. They may perceive this as disrespect or lack
of caring by the officers. What they don't realize is that a detailed inspection
of the deceased at the scene -- including the position of the body, bullet entry
and exit wounds, condition of the deceased's clothing and many other factors --
can be key to solving a case later on. It is a lengthy process. In addition, it
usually takes time for the County Coroner to respond to homicide scenes to do
their job.

The Department's CSIs pay close attention to ballistic evidence at the scene.
There may be numerous bullet casings, and even unexpended rounds, spread around
a wide area that need to be collected. In some cases, a gun may be located --
occasionally one that belonged to the victim.

RPD pays the CCSO Crime Lab to process many of these items and to enter/check
firearms evidence in IBIS -- the federal Integrated Ballistics Identification
System. The IBIS system records the distinctive pattern left on bullet evidence,
which can then later be matched to the exact gun that fired it, in much the same
way as fingerprints can be matched to the person who left them behind. Due to
the volume of cases handled by the CCSO Crime Lab, IBIS comparisons can take as
much as six months to complete. To expedite our comparisons, we have contracted
with a forensic expert to prioritize Richmond cases for a quicker turnaround.

We hear a lot about DNA evidence through the media. On television, DNA
processing of evidence occurs in minutes and is usually matched right away to a
known criminal -- facilitating an immediate arrest. In reality, many DNA cases
take months to be processed. There is not necessarily a match to anyone -- since
the DNA database is limited to persons who have DNA samples taken from them at
the time of a previous arrest or who are in the database for other reasons. DNA
analysis is extremely expensive for the submitting agency.

Crime labs are overwhelmed with evidence from Richmond and other cities in the
county. One of the frustrations for our investigators is the time it takes to
get lab results. Physical evidence can be one of the strongest parts of a
criminal case, yet it is not uncommon for months to pass before analysis results
related to key pieces of evidence comes back to investigators. This can delay
the ability to link a suspect to a crime, assuming a suspect has been
identified.

Witnesses: One of the first things police officers try to do when they respond
to the scene of a homicide or serious shooting is to identify and speak to
witnesses. Unfortunately, this is one of the most difficult parts of the
investigation. In many, many cases -- particularly those involving gang-related
violence -- witnesses are unwilling to come forward or talk with the police,
even when they have seen or know something about the crime. This is often
because of the brutality and brazenness of shootings -- which frequently occur
in places open to public view. It is also common in cases, where gang dynamics
are at play, for rivals to know one another, while neighborhood residents may be
totally unfamiliar with who these actors are. Offenders generally subscribe to a
strict street code that discourage cooperation with legitimate entities, such as
police and government.

There are many reasons witnesses -- and even surviving victims in many cases --
choose not to work with the police. Some of these reasons include: fear of
retaliation, perception that there is no point of getting involved "since the
system doesn't work anyway," distrust of the police and other authorities,
friendship or family ties to the perpetrators, cultural or language barriers,
bad personal or family experience(s) with the criminal justice system, current
arrest warrants or other charges pending against them, they are on parole or
probation, they are not confident what they saw or heard, or they will "handle
it themselves" (perpetuating the cycle of violence).

We are sometimes asked, "Why do you have so many officers at a serious crime
scene?" In addition to securing the crime scene perimeter (which can be
challenging depending on the size of the scene), the main reason for the large
number of officers and detectives is to make every possible effort to identify
and speak to witnesses. Homicides and other shootings are very complicated
investigations that involve piecing together many facts from different sources
that we address with a "team" approach in order to increase our accuracy and
efficiency.

Time is of the essence in these cases. If witnesses are not contacted as soon as
possible, it may be impossible to identify or locate them later on. You may have
heard of, or watched the TV show "The First 48" -- which portrays how critical
it is to gather evidence and identify witnesses during the first 48 hours
following the crime. When it comes to engaging with witnesses, however, the
process would better be called "The First 48 Minutes." The more time that passes
following a homicide or serious shooting, the more difficult it is to identify
and locate witnesses.

When investigators fail to locate helpful witnesses initially, they make every
effort to continue this process in the weeks and months that follow the crime.
Sometimes, important leads come from informants (also known as "Confidential
Informants" or "CIs"). Sometimes information comes from neighbors or other
eyewitnesses close to the scene of the crime who may need persuasion or
reassurance over time to get involved. Sometimes information comes from a family
member or associate of the suspect(s) who develop a motivation to work with the
police. There are cases, however, where no one comes forward and no one can be
identified to interview. This is a problem because eyewitnesses are equally as
valuable as physical evidence in shooting cases.

A major problem we face in dealing with witnesses is that they are not always
reliable. Sometimes a witness has such a lengthy criminal record and/or such
questionable motivation, there is little chance a prosecutor can put them on the
stand to testify, for fear they might actually jeopardize the case. Another
problem can be locating witnesses later on (for preliminary exams or trial, for
example) because individuals may leave the area, become uncooperative, or
generally make themselves as scarce as possible to avoid testifying.

On TV and in the movies, witnesses not associated with the suspect or victim
almost always seem to pick the suspect(s) out of a photo or police lineup. In
reality, witnesses may only catch a fleeting glance of a suspect; it may be
dark; clothing worn by the suspect(s) may make it difficult to see them; and
things often happen incredibly fast during the commission of a crime. Eyewitness
testimony is not always reliable, so investigators and prosecutors have to be
very careful about how this evidence is developed and used.

On a positive note, because of the relationships many of our officers have
developed with the community, it is not uncommon for beat officers and SROs to
be told about the "word on the street" going around about a particular shooting.
This information may not be enough to make a solid case against a suspect, but
it can provide us with a starting point for further investigation.

Who decides about charging a suspect? If a suspect is actually identified and
there is probable cause for an arrest, a state or federal prosecutor must still
make a decision about whether there is enough evidence to obtain a signed
warrant from a judge and ultimately to try the case in court.

Many people believe the police make charging decisions that involve suspects,
but this is not how the system works. Charges against suspects have to be made
by prosecutors -- and prosecutors base their charging decisions on multiple
factors. It is not uncommon for a district attorney or federal prosecutor to
send a case back to detectives requesting "more information or follow-up" before
they will move forward with prosecution.

In some instances, it is simply not possible for detectives to obtain additional
information, so a case may be stalled for months or even years. This is often
extremely disappointing to family members or friends of the victim, who may
believe a case is "going nowhere" because the police and/or prosecutors "simply
don't care." This is simply not true. Nothing makes officers and detectives more
frustrated than "knowing" who committed a crime, yet not having sufficient
evidence to get a suspect charged and tried in court. This is not an uncommon
occurrence in Richmond homicide cases.

Prosecutors are legally and morally obligated to not file charges against a
suspect unless they believe they can convince a jury of 12, beyond a reasonable
doubt, of the suspect's guilt. People often ask why charges aren't filed in an
effort to make a suspect go to trial, even if the prosecutor knows the trial
will end in an acquittal. The reason for this is that such conduct could be
construed as malicious prosecution.

Resources: Almost every police agency believes it needs more resources to solve
(and of course, prevent) homicides and other serious gun crimes. The plain
truth, however, is that the need for additional resources (especially personnel)
is much greater in Richmond than many other communities, simply because of the
amount of gang violence and the overall challenges of crime in the city.

When I ask members of the public how many sworn police officers we have in
Richmond, I get answers like "1,000", or "500." We actually have 195 sworn
personnel, which includes everyone from the newest recruit (who may still need
to go through a Basic Police Academy or be partnered up with a training officer
for on-the-job training) all the way up to me -- the Chief. About 90 of our
personnel are patrol officers (about another 20 are supervisors: patrol
sergeants and lieutenants) -- and about between 15-30 of these personnel are on
duty at any given time patrolling the entire city. The remainder of our sworn
staff are detectives, officers assigned to special details like the Regulatory
Unit or Recruiting and Training, as well as Administrative personnel. In
addition, most people do not realize that we always have personnel on leave
days, vacation, going through mandatory training, recovering from injuries or on
long-term disability, and otherwise away from the job for a myriad of reasons.

There are approximately a dozen investigators available to handle homicides,
although about half of them are primarily assigned to work robberies. Homicides
tend to come in groups, so the reality is that these personnel can be spread
very thin. Homicide investigators may be called out day or night, 7 days a week,
and then work long, long hours to follow-up on a murder or serious shooting in
that key period following the crime(s).

Thanks to the support of the City Council and the City Manager, RPD has been
fortunate that our overall staffing levels have increased over the past 7 years.
Despite these increases, however, we are still staffed below what a city with
our level of crime ideally needs.

Our department utilizes a variety of technologies to assist us with the
investigation of violent crime, including Crime Lab services (which come with a
hefty price tag through the Sheriff's Department), Closed Circuit TV (also
expensive and complicated to operate, maintain, and monitor), ShotSpotter (which
triangulates gunfire to provide the location and type of gun being fired -- but
it can't help with the fact that shooters generally don't stick around for the
police!), and license plate readers (LPRs). Residents often assume these
technologies are available and functioning throughout the entire city, but
because of cost, they are mostly limited to neighborhoods with higher levels of
violent crime. This is frustrating to many members of the public and police
officers alike, who wish there was a camera or a gunshot sensor available and
operating in every area where crimes occur.

The Department also relies on our crime analysis resources, including our
ability to track field contacts, provide timely crime data to our personnel, and
conduct meaningful analysis of crime trends. We have one Crime Analyst who works
behind the scenes with our officers and detectives to track serious crimes,
including gang activity. This has to be done carefully and accurately to protect
people's rights and to be most effective

Thanks to recent action by the City Council, the Department is contracting for a
service known as "Predictive Policing," which is being successfully used in
other cities, such as Los Angeles and New York City, to utilize complex
algorithms in predicting where future crimes are likely to occur so greater
resources can be placed in these locations. It sounds like science fiction, but
this process has a track record of proven positive results.

Ceasefire: The Richmond Police Department is part of the Ceasefire -- Lifelines
to Healing working group and overall effort. The Ceasefire program cannot
prevent all homicides, but it is recognized as a "best practice" around the
country to reduce shootings. The Ceasefire program involves police detectives
and other key individuals identifying persons involved in, or at high risk for
committing, gun violence. These individuals are then "called in" to participate
in a discussion about the law enforcement consequences (greater police
attention, enhanced prosecution efforts, etc.) for continuing to commit
shootings. They also hear an important message from the community, which is that
people care about them and that a support system exists to help them turn their
lives around. This effort involves community groups, service providers, the
faith community, formerly incarcerated individuals, and many others.

There are no instant or magical outcomes associated with the Ceasefire program,
but real prevention and long-term successes are hard to measure and difficult to
achieve. This program requires the persistent dedication and commitment of many
people and groups. It also requires sufficient funding and resources to provide
effective interventions. To provide sustainable interventions, shooters who want
to make major life changes often need life-skills training, employment, mental
health and substance abuse services, anger management and conflict resolution
skills, education, and other assistance. Few of these services are available to
the degree they are needed in our community, despite the best efforts of many
groups and people.

No Giving Up: Here's one especially important thing I'd like people to know
about our homicide investigations: We don't give up. Homicide cases are never
closed. Even when evidence is very limited and no witnesses have come forward;
even when we have exhausted all leads -- unsolved homicide cases remain open in
case information or evidence is developed later (sometimes years later) that
helps us solve a case and charge a suspect.

A good example of this is a 2009 homicide case that our investigators just made
an arrest on. We know how important this kind of closure is to victims' families
and friends. It's also important to our personnel, who have often spent several
thousand hours investigating a case. Our personnel are invested in these cases.

Another important thing to keep in mind: The Department offers a standing
$10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the
person or persons who committed any homicide -- even a homicide many years ago.
Lesser rewards may be available for critical information that helps us with
other serious shooting cases.

I hope this information has helped explain the ongoing work and challenges faced
by the police (and others) in addressing the problem of gun violence in our
community. This work is difficult and there are many obstacles to achieving
success. We are fortunate to have considerable support, and an ongoing
commitment for this work, from our City Council and other regional elected
leaders. We also have a caring group of residents who are highly invested in
this effort. That said, nothing is easy -- and our needs remain considerable. I
appreciate your time in learning more about these issues and your willingness to
partner with us as we move forward.

Chris Magnus

Chief of Police

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

The NSA is watching, but so are Google and Facebook

BYLINE: By Ken Dilanian McClatchy-Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News; World; Business

LENGTH: 1175 words


WASHINGTON -- Not long before headlines exposed National Security Agency
programs that secretly collect records of Americans' phone calls, another
surveillance system got far less attention: Nordstrom, the department store
chain, acknowledged it was tracking customers without their knowledge in 17
stores.

Nordstrom had hired a company to log a unique number emitted by shoppers'
smartphones, which automatically connected to Wi-Fi systems as they moved
through the stores. Shortly after a Dallas TV station broke the story in May,
Nordstrom announced it was discontinuing the program.

The company that sold the tracking service, Euclid Analytics, has tracked 50
million devices in 4,000 locations for 100 corporate and other customers, its
founder has said. Shoppers are free to opt out, but the process is complex --
they must enter their phone's media access control address, known as a MAC
address, on Euclid's website.

Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden's disclosures about domestic spying by the
NSA have sparked a broad debate about whether the government is using
sophisticated surveillance and data-mining techniques on its own citizens
without sufficient oversight.

But information gathered and exploited by Internet giants such asGoogleGOOG ),
Amazon andFacebook -- and traded by lesser-known data brokers such as Datalogix
and Acxiom -- can be more revealing than what the NSA can legally collect on
most Americans. Few consumers understand what data are being shared, with whom,
or how the information is being used.

"We normally think of the NSA as being far ahead of corporate America, but I'm
not so sure they are that far ahead anymore," said Mark Herschberg, chief
technology officer at Madison Logic, a New York-based company that provides data
for advertisers.

"There are thousands of companies out there collecting information on customers,
and together they are really aggregating quite a bit of data," he added. "Google
is reading through your email. Amazon is looking at not just what you buy, but
what you shop for."

The collection and analysis of consumer information in bulk is enabled by what
has been dubbed the "Big Data" revolution -- the combination of digitization,
cheap storage, robust computing power and sophisticated analytics that allows
experts to find correlations in ever-expanding pools of data.

In many ways, Big Data has been a boon for consumers, allowing companies to
tailor products and services.NetflixNFLX ) says three-fourths of its film and TV
show rentals come from its own recommendations, which rely on automated analysis
of customer preferences.

Big Data also has the potential, advocates say, to improve medical outcomes,
streamline government services and reduce crime. The Los Angeles Police
Department is analyzing data to isolate hot spots in its "predictive policing"
program, for example, steering officers to where crimes are expected to happen.

The downside may be just as dramatic, however.

Most Americans emit a stream of personal digital exhaust -- what they search
for, what they buy, who they communicate with, where they are -- that is
captured and exploited in a largely unregulated fashion. The information can be
used by identity thieves, insurance companies, prospective employers or
opponents in a civil lawsuit.

"How do I express my privacy requirements? Increasingly, it means I have shut
off my phone and become a digital hermit," said Ian Glazer, a vice president at
Gartner, an information technology research and advisory company.

In addition to privacy threats, he said, "there is a fundamental problem with
fairness, in the sense that I am generating all this data about me through my
devices, and these organizations are harvesting it and making a profit off it."

Google says it uses algorithms, not humans, to mine the content of Gmail
messages. Thus if someone sends a digital note about an upcoming trip, the
computer may generate an ad for an airline or hotel.

Amazon and other companies track online shoppers and display ads for items their
customers perused as they browse other websites. Retailer Target was able to use
purchasing patterns to figure out when women were pregnant and target ads
accordingly.

Smartphones double as tracking devices, sending periodic signals that disclose
their locations. Though the NSA says it does not collect that information about
Americans, numerous popular applications, including the game "Angry Birds" and
Yelp, do so for their developers, using precise coordinates from cell towers and
GPS systems. Some sell the data to third parties.

Mobile carriers, including Verizon Wireless, have begun selling aggregate
location data. Verizon, on its website, promises advertisers "detailed
demographics; location analysis to determine where your target consumer segment
lives and works; and foot-and-mobile traffic habits," though not names or phone
numbers.

"These companies have been practicing what I call privacy arbitrage for the last
10 years or so, mining all of our personal information," said a former U.S.
intelligence official who now works for a data company. He asked for anonymity
so he could be more candid. "I don't know to what degree the common person
understands how much data is being collected about them by these Silicon Valley
companies that are saving the world."

Just as NSA officials say the agency uses data on Americans only to hunt for
terrorists and spy on foreign adversaries, Silicon Valley executives say they
use personal information only to sell advertising and improve the customer
experience. Much of the data they store are anonymous, they say. They don't care
about customer names.

Yet anonymity can be temporary. In a study published in February in the journal
Scientific Reports, researchers were able to sort through location data on 1.5
million people and uniquely identify 95 percent of them based on four hours of
tracking. The big social networking and shopping sites do in fact store names,
email addresses, credit card information, shopping and browsing histories.

Even if the NSA, Google and Verizon have strong incentives not to abuse the data
they collect, they can't always control it. Just as Snowden purportedly used his
special access as a network administrator to download documents he wasn't
supposed to see, Google in 2010 disclosed that it had fired a systems engineer
after allegations that he had improperly accessed the email and chat content of
four teenage customers.

Officials at Euclid, the company that helped Nordstrom track its customers,
declined to comment. But in a March letter to Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., who
criticized the company, founder Will Smith said Euclid did not obtain the names
or phone numbers of customers and didn't share or sell its data with others.

Most consumers "probably don't understand what data is being collected," said
Evan Reiser, chief executive of the San Francisco firm AdStack, which uses
millions of detailed anonymous consumer profiles to customize targeted email
advertisements. "A lot of companies could do a much better job explaining that."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 29 DOCUMENTS


             The Press of Atlantic City (Pleasantville New Jersey)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday

NSA not only one watching

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian, The Press of Atlantic City, Pleasantville, N.J.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1206 words


July 14--WASHINGTON -- Not long before headlines exposed National Security
Agency programs that secretly collect records of Americans' phone calls, another
surveillance system got far less attention: Nordstrom, the department store
chain, acknowledged it was tracking customers without their knowledge in 17
stores.

Nordstrom had hired a company to log a unique number emitted by shoppers'
smartphones, which automatically connected to Wi-Fi systems as they moved
through the stores. Soon after a Dallas TV station broke the story in May,
Nordstrom announced it was discontinuing the program.

The company that sold the tracking service, Euclid Analytics, has tracked 50
million devices in 4,000 locations for 100 corporate and other customers, its
founder has said.

Shoppers are free to opt out, but the process is complex: They must enter their
phone's media access control address, known as a MAC address, on Euclid's
website.

Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden's disclosures about domestic spying by the
NSA have sparked a broad debate about whether the government is using
sophisticated surveillance and data-mining techniques on its own citizens
without sufficient oversight.

But information gathered and exploited by Internet giants such as Google, Amazon
and Facebook -- and traded by lesser-known data brokers such as Datalogix and
Acxiom -- can be more revealing than what the NSA can legally collect on most
Americans. Few consumers understand what data are being shared, with whom or how
the information is being used.

"We normally think of the NSA as being far ahead of corporate America, but I'm
not so sure they are that far ahead anymore," said Mark Herschberg, chief
technology officer at Madison Logic, a New York-based company that provides data
for advertisers.

"There are thousands of companies out there collecting information on customers,
and together they are really aggregating quite a bit of data," he added. "Google
is reading through your email. Amazon is looking at not just what you buy, but
what you shop for."

The collection and analysis of consumer information in bulk is enabled by what
has been dubbed the "Big Data" revolution -- the combination of digitization,
cheap storage, robust computing power and sophisticated analytics that allows
experts to find correlations in ever-expanding pools of data.

In many ways, Big Data has been a boon for consumers, allowing companies to
tailor products and services. Netflix says three-fourths of its film and TV show
rentals come from its own recommendations, which rely on automated analysis of
customer preferences.

Big Data also has the potential, advocates say, to improve medical outcomes,
streamline government services and reduce crime. The Los Angeles Police
Department is analyzing data to isolate hot spots in its "predictive policing"
program, for example, steering officers to where crimes are expected to happen.

The downside may be just as dramatic, however.

Most Americans emit a stream of personal digital exhaust -- what they search
for, what they buy, who they communicate with, where they are -- that is
captured and exploited in a largely unregulated fashion. The information can be
used by identity thieves, insurance companies, prospective employers or
opponents in a civil lawsuit.

"How do I express my privacy requirements? Increasingly, it means I have shut
off my phone and become a digital hermit," said Ian Glazer, a vice president at
Gartner Inc., an information technology research and advisory company.

In addition to privacy threats, he said, "there is a fundamental problem with
fairness, in the sense that I am generating all this data about me through my
devices, and these organizations are harvesting it and making a profit off it."

Google says it uses algorithms, not humans, to mine the content of Gmail
messages. Thus if someone sends a digital note about an upcoming trip, the
computer may generate an ad for an airline or hotel.

Amazon and other companies track online shoppers and display ads for items their
customers perused as they browse other websites. Retailer Target was able to use
purchasing patterns to figure out when women were pregnant and target ads
accordingly.

Smartphones double as tracking devices, sending periodic signals that disclose
their locations. Though the NSA says it does not collect that information about
Americans, numerous popular applications, including the game "Angry Birds" and
Yelp, do so for their developers, using precise coordinates from cell towers and
GPS systems. Some sell the data to third parties.

Mobile carriers, including Verizon Wireless, have begun selling aggregate
location data. Verizon, on its website, promises advertisers "detailed
demographics; location analysis to determine where your target consumer segment
lives and works; and foot-and-mobile traffic habits," though not names or phone
numbers.

"These companies have been practicing what I call privacy arbitrage for the last
10 years or so, mining all of our personal information," said a former U.S.
intelligence official who now works for a data company. He asked for anonymity
so he could be more candid. "I don't know to what degree the common person
understands how much data is being collected about them by these Silicon Valley
companies that are saving the world."

Just as NSA officials say the agency uses data on Americans only to hunt for
terrorists and spy on foreign adversaries, Silicon Valley executives say they
use personal information only to sell advertising and improve the customer
experience. Much of the data they store are anonymous, they say. They don't care
about customer names.

Yet anonymity can be temporary. In a study published in February in the journal
Scientific Reports, researchers were able to sort through location data on 1.5
million people and uniquely identify 95 percent of them based on four hours of
tracking. The big social networking and shopping sites do in fact store names,
email addresses, credit card information, shopping and browsing histories.

Even if the NSA, Google and Verizon have strong incentives not to abuse the data
they collect, they can't always control it. Just as Snowden purportedly used his
special access as a network administrator to download documents he wasn't
supposed to see, Google in 2010 disclosed that it had fired a systems engineer
after allegations that he had improperly accessed the email and chat content of
four teenage customers.

Officials at Euclid, the company that helped Nordstrom track its customers,
declined to comment. But in a March letter to Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., who
criticized the company, founder Will Smith said Euclid did not obtain the names
or phone numbers of customers and didn't share or sell its data with others.

Most consumers "probably don't understand what data is being collected," said
Evan Reiser, chief executive of the San Francisco firm AdStack, which uses
millions of detailed anonymous consumer profiles to customize targeted email
advertisements. "A lot of companies could do a much better job explaining that."

___ (c)2013 The Press of Atlantic City (Pleasantville, N.J.) Visit The Press of
Atlantic City (Pleasantville, N.J.) at www.pressofatlanticcity.com Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130714-1AC-NSA-not-only-one-watching-0714-20130714

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AC


                   Copyright 2013 The Press of Atlantic City


                               28 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

The NSA is watching, but so are Google and Facebook

BYLINE: By Ken Dilanian McClatchy-Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; Personal Technology; News; National; Local;
Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 1175 words


WASHINGTON -- Not long before headlines exposed National Security Agency
programs that secretly collect records of Americans' phone calls, another
surveillance system got far less attention: Nordstrom, the department store
chain, acknowledged it was tracking customers without their knowledge in 17
stores.

Nordstrom had hired a company to log a unique number emitted by shoppers'
smartphones, which automatically connected to Wi-Fi systems as they moved
through the stores. Shortly after a Dallas TV station broke the story in May,
Nordstrom announced it was discontinuing the program.

The company that sold the tracking service, Euclid Analytics, has tracked 50
million devices in 4,000 locations for 100 corporate and other customers, its
founder has said. Shoppers are free to opt out, but the process is complex --
they must enter their phone's media access control address, known as a MAC
address, on Euclid's website.

Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden's disclosures about domestic spying by the
NSA have sparked a broad debate about whether the government is using
sophisticated surveillance and data-mining techniques on its own citizens
without sufficient oversight.

But information gathered and exploited by Internet giants such asGoogleGOOG ),
Amazon andFacebook -- and traded by lesser-known data brokers such as Datalogix
and Acxiom -- can be more revealing than what the NSA can legally collect on
most Americans. Few consumers understand what data are being shared, with whom,
or how the information is being used.

"We normally think of the NSA as being far ahead of corporate America, but I'm
not so sure they are that far ahead anymore," said Mark Herschberg, chief
technology officer at Madison Logic, a New York-based company that provides data
for advertisers.

"There are thousands of companies out there collecting information on customers,
and together they are really aggregating quite a bit of data," he added. "Google
is reading through your email. Amazon is looking at not just what you buy, but
what you shop for."

The collection and analysis of consumer information in bulk is enabled by what
has been dubbed the "Big Data" revolution -- the combination of digitization,
cheap storage, robust computing power and sophisticated analytics that allows
experts to find correlations in ever-expanding pools of data.

In many ways, Big Data has been a boon for consumers, allowing companies to
tailor products and services.NetflixNFLX ) says three-fourths of its film and TV
show rentals come from its own recommendations, which rely on automated analysis
of customer preferences.

Big Data also has the potential, advocates say, to improve medical outcomes,
streamline government services and reduce crime. The Los Angeles Police
Department is analyzing data to isolate hot spots in its "predictive policing"
program, for example, steering officers to where crimes are expected to happen.

The downside may be just as dramatic, however.

Most Americans emit a stream of personal digital exhaust -- what they search
for, what they buy, who they communicate with, where they are -- that is
captured and exploited in a largely unregulated fashion. The information can be
used by identity thieves, insurance companies, prospective employers or
opponents in a civil lawsuit.

"How do I express my privacy requirements? Increasingly, it means I have shut
off my phone and become a digital hermit," said Ian Glazer, a vice president at
Gartner, an information technology research and advisory company.

In addition to privacy threats, he said, "there is a fundamental problem with
fairness, in the sense that I am generating all this data about me through my
devices, and these organizations are harvesting it and making a profit off it."

Google says it uses algorithms, not humans, to mine the content of Gmail
messages. Thus if someone sends a digital note about an upcoming trip, the
computer may generate an ad for an airline or hotel.

Amazon and other companies track online shoppers and display ads for items their
customers perused as they browse other websites. Retailer Target was able to use
purchasing patterns to figure out when women were pregnant and target ads
accordingly.

Smartphones double as tracking devices, sending periodic signals that disclose
their locations. Though the NSA says it does not collect that information about
Americans, numerous popular applications, including the game "Angry Birds" and
Yelp, do so for their developers, using precise coordinates from cell towers and
GPS systems. Some sell the data to third parties.

Mobile carriers, including Verizon Wireless, have begun selling aggregate
location data. Verizon, on its website, promises advertisers "detailed
demographics; location analysis to determine where your target consumer segment
lives and works; and foot-and-mobile traffic habits," though not names or phone
numbers.

"These companies have been practicing what I call privacy arbitrage for the last
10 years or so, mining all of our personal information," said a former U.S.
intelligence official who now works for a data company. He asked for anonymity
so he could be more candid. "I don't know to what degree the common person
understands how much data is being collected about them by these Silicon Valley
companies that are saving the world."

Just as NSA officials say the agency uses data on Americans only to hunt for
terrorists and spy on foreign adversaries, Silicon Valley executives say they
use personal information only to sell advertising and improve the customer
experience. Much of the data they store are anonymous, they say. They don't care
about customer names.

Yet anonymity can be temporary. In a study published in February in the journal
Scientific Reports, researchers were able to sort through location data on 1.5
million people and uniquely identify 95 percent of them based on four hours of
tracking. The big social networking and shopping sites do in fact store names,
email addresses, credit card information, shopping and browsing histories.

Even if the NSA, Google and Verizon have strong incentives not to abuse the data
they collect, they can't always control it. Just as Snowden purportedly used his
special access as a network administrator to download documents he wasn't
supposed to see, Google in 2010 disclosed that it had fired a systems engineer
after allegations that he had improperly accessed the email and chat content of
four teenage customers.

Officials at Euclid, the company that helped Nordstrom track its customers,
declined to comment. But in a March letter to Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., who
criticized the company, founder Will Smith said Euclid did not obtain the names
or phone numbers of customers and didn't share or sell its data with others.

Most consumers "probably don't understand what data is being collected," said
Evan Reiser, chief executive of the San Francisco firm AdStack, which uses
millions of detailed anonymous consumer profiles to customize targeted email
advertisements. "A lot of companies could do a much better job explaining that."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An illustration picture shows a projection of binary code around the
shadow of a man holding a laptop computer in an office in Warsaw June 24, 2013.
REUTERS/Kacper Pempel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Richmond police chief shares challenges of solving homicides

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3814 words


In the wake of a rash of homicides, Richmond police Chief Chris Magnus on
Wednesday sent out an email to community and civic leaders detailing the
challenges and strategies investigators face in solving cases. The email
stresses the importance of witnesses' participation, which was reportedly key in
the recent capture of a man charged Tuesday with fatally shooting his neighbor
in 2009 in the Iron Triangle neighborhood.

The Richmond Police Department offers a $10,000 reward for information leading
to an arrest and conviction in unsolved homicide cases, regardless of how long
ago they occurred.

Here is a Magnus' email:

Dear City Council and other Richmond Community Members:

We have recently seen an increase in gun violence in Richmond -- much of it
associated with gang activity, some of it simply a result of "personal beefs"
between individuals. Unfortunately, gun violence frequently occurs in clusters
-- in many cases because incidents of retaliation follow the initial shooting --
and are very difficult to prevent.

I am often asked how the Police Department investigates these gun violence
cases, especially homicides, and why they are difficult to prevent and solve.
Here are some of the strategies and tools we use, as well as some of the
challenges we face:

Community Engagement: As an ongoing effort, well before a homicide or other gun
crime even takes place, our patrol and School Resource Officers (SROs) are out
in the community doing their best to build relationships, establish trust, make
contact with neighborhood residents, and develop information about dangerous
individuals who pose a threat to others. This is key to both preventing and
solving crimes.

Obviously, the community quickly hears about serious crimes after they occur
through the media, neighborhood blogs, and word-of-mouth. What most residents
don't know are the many crimes that are prevented because beat officers and SROs
develop information or engage in proactive field work, which allows them to
intervene ahead of the crime. These officers will make a key arrest, confiscate
a gun (our officers take an average of a gun off the street each day) or conduct
"compliance checks" to assure probationers and parolees are following the rules
that allow them to be back in the community.

Our personnel work closely with many community organizations that provide
services, or have a mission to prevent violence. They also engage the faith
community, school personnel and everyday residents to prevent and solve gun
crimes whenever possible.

Partnerships with other Law Enforcement Entities: RPD personnel work with many
other police, corrections and prosecution entities to address violent crime in
Richmond. This includes local jurisdictions close to us like San Pablo PD, El
Cerrito PD, the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Department (CCSO), BART PD and
others. It also includes the Contra Costa County Probation Department
(especially important based on the recent realignment of California's
corrections system that shifts responsibility for many offenders away from the
state and to the counties instead), as well the CDCR (State Corrections) Parole
Section. RPD also has a close relationship with personnel from several federal
agencies, including the FBI, ATF (Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms), the DEA, and
Customs (although we have no involvement with ICE -- the immigration section of
Customs).

Lastly, we work closely with county, state, and federal prosecution agencies,
including the Contra Costa District Attorney, the State Department of Justice
(DOJ), and the U.S. Attorney's Office. Most of our violent crime cases,
including homicides, are prosecuted (or evaluated for prosecution) under state
law by the DA's Office. Certain gun crimes are referred to the U.S. Attorney's
Office for prosecution under federal law when more serious sentencing options
are appropriate based on a pattern of ongoing violent crimes committed by the
offender.

Although the media often refer to many crimes in our immediate area as having
been "committed in Richmond," a great deal of our retaliatory gang violence
involves young men who live or hang out in unincorporated North Richmond --
which is not part of the City. Because of this, a significant number of gun
crimes associated with our larger community are the responsibility of the Contra
Costa County Sheriff's Department.

This means it's essential that RPD work closely with the Sheriff's Department.
When a shooting occurs, it's not uncommon for the perpetrators to flee from
Richmond into North Richmond, or vice versa. This complicates our ability to
make arrests and close cases, but despite this reality, our officers and
detectives communicate on an ongoing basis with CCSO deputies and investigators.
We also work regularly with investigators from the DA's Office.

The city of Richmond contracts with the DA's Office to have two assistant DAs in
our headquarters who focus exclusively on Richmond gun crimes and other criminal
cases. They work with our patrol officers and detectives to give special
attention to repeat violent offenders. They review cases, provide immediate
feedback, answer questions and provide training for our personnel that make our
officers more effective in dealing with violent crime.

The DA convenes regular meetings to discuss Richmond homicides and crime trends.
These meetings involve not only RPD personnel but lead investigators from other
local, state and federal jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of a new
protocol put in place in August of 2011, the DAs assigned to Richmond respond to
most homicide scenes to provide assistance as needed. This can help with
prosecution efforts later.

Crime Scene Investigations and Evidence Processing: Our department has 13
officers specifically trained as Crime Scene Investigators (CSIs). These
personnel are available 24/7 and respond to the scene of all homicides and many
other violent crimes. CSIs have many important responsibilities. They document
the physical nature and characteristics of crime scenes, which is painstaking
and can be quite time-consuming. This typically involves taking photographs,
collecting ballistic evidence (bullet casings, unexpended rounds, etc.),
gathering other evidence (clothing, items left behind by the offender), taking
latent prints when appropriate, and working closely with the other investigators
at the scene.

Processing crime scenes and evidence is very little like what's portrayed on
television. Evidence handling at a crime scene is complex. For example, people
sometimes wonder why the body of the deceased isn't moved or taken away from the
scene of a homicide more quickly. They may perceive this as disrespect or lack
of caring by the officers. What they don't realize is that a detailed inspection
of the deceased at the scene -- including the position of the body, bullet entry
and exit wounds, condition of the deceased's clothing and many other factors --
can be key to solving a case later on. It is a lengthy process. In addition, it
usually takes time for the County Coroner to respond to homicide scenes to do
their job.

The Department's CSIs pay close attention to ballistic evidence at the scene.
There may be numerous bullet casings, and even unexpended rounds, spread around
a wide area that need to be collected. In some cases, a gun may be located --
occasionally one that belonged to the victim.

RPD pays the CCSO Crime Lab to process many of these items and to enter/check
firearms evidence in IBIS -- the federal Integrated Ballistics Identification
System. The IBIS system records the distinctive pattern left on bullet evidence,
which can then later be matched to the exact gun that fired it, in much the same
way as fingerprints can be matched to the person who left them behind. Due to
the volume of cases handled by the CCSO Crime Lab, IBIS comparisons can take as
much as six months to complete. To expedite our comparisons, we have contracted
with a forensic expert to prioritize Richmond cases for a quicker turnaround.

We hear a lot about DNA evidence through the media. On television, DNA
processing of evidence occurs in minutes and is usually matched right away to a
known criminal -- facilitating an immediate arrest. In reality, many DNA cases
take months to be processed. There is not necessarily a match to anyone -- since
the DNA database is limited to persons who have DNA samples taken from them at
the time of a previous arrest or who are in the database for other reasons. DNA
analysis is extremely expensive for the submitting agency.

Crime labs are overwhelmed with evidence from Richmond and other cities in the
county. One of the frustrations for our investigators is the time it takes to
get lab results. Physical evidence can be one of the strongest parts of a
criminal case, yet it is not uncommon for months to pass before analysis results
related to key pieces of evidence comes back to investigators. This can delay
the ability to link a suspect to a crime, assuming a suspect has been
identified.

Witnesses: One of the first things police officers try to do when they respond
to the scene of a homicide or serious shooting is to identify and speak to
witnesses. Unfortunately, this is one of the most difficult parts of the
investigation. In many, many cases -- particularly those involving gang-related
violence -- witnesses are unwilling to come forward or talk with the police,
even when they have seen or know something about the crime. This is often
because of the brutality and brazenness of shootings -- which frequently occur
in places open to public view. It is also common in cases, where gang dynamics
are at play, for rivals to know one another, while neighborhood residents may be
totally unfamiliar with who these actors are. Offenders generally subscribe to a
strict street code that discourage cooperation with legitimate entities, such as
police and government.

There are many reasons witnesses -- and even surviving victims in many cases --
choose not to work with the police. Some of these reasons include: fear of
retaliation, perception that there is no point of getting involved "since the
system doesn't work anyway," distrust of the police and other authorities,
friendship or family ties to the perpetrators, cultural or language barriers,
bad personal or family experience(s) with the criminal justice system, current
arrest warrants or other charges pending against them, they are on parole or
probation, they are not confident what they saw or heard, or they will "handle
it themselves" (perpetuating the cycle of violence).

We are sometimes asked, "Why do you have so many officers at a serious crime
scene?" In addition to securing the crime scene perimeter (which can be
challenging depending on the size of the scene), the main reason for the large
number of officers and detectives is to make every possible effort to identify
and speak to witnesses. Homicides and other shootings are very complicated
investigations that involve piecing together many facts from different sources
that we address with a "team" approach in order to increase our accuracy and
efficiency.

Time is of the essence in these cases. If witnesses are not contacted as soon as
possible, it may be impossible to identify or locate them later on. You may have
heard of, or watched the TV show "The First 48" -- which portrays how critical
it is to gather evidence and identify witnesses during the first 48 hours
following the crime. When it comes to engaging with witnesses, however, the
process would better be called "The First 48 Minutes." The more time that passes
following a homicide or serious shooting, the more difficult it is to identify
and locate witnesses.

When investigators fail to locate helpful witnesses initially, they make every
effort to continue this process in the weeks and months that follow the crime.
Sometimes, important leads come from informants (also known as "Confidential
Informants" or "CIs"). Sometimes information comes from neighbors or other
eyewitnesses close to the scene of the crime who may need persuasion or
reassurance over time to get involved. Sometimes information comes from a family
member or associate of the suspect(s) who develop a motivation to work with the
police. There are cases, however, where no one comes forward and no one can be
identified to interview. This is a problem because eyewitnesses are equally as
valuable as physical evidence in shooting cases.

A major problem we face in dealing with witnesses is that they are not always
reliable. Sometimes a witness has such a lengthy criminal record and/or such
questionable motivation, there is little chance a prosecutor can put them on the
stand to testify, for fear they might actually jeopardize the case. Another
problem can be locating witnesses later on (for preliminary exams or trial, for
example) because individuals may leave the area, become uncooperative, or
generally make themselves as scarce as possible to avoid testifying.

On TV and in the movies, witnesses not associated with the suspect or victim
almost always seem to pick the suspect(s) out of a photo or police lineup. In
reality, witnesses may only catch a fleeting glance of a suspect; it may be
dark; clothing worn by the suspect(s) may make it difficult to see them; and
things often happen incredibly fast during the commission of a crime. Eyewitness
testimony is not always reliable, so investigators and prosecutors have to be
very careful about how this evidence is developed and used.

On a positive note, because of the relationships many of our officers have
developed with the community, it is not uncommon for beat officers and SROs to
be told about the "word on the street" going around about a particular shooting.
This information may not be enough to make a solid case against a suspect, but
it can provide us with a starting point for further investigation.

Who decides about charging a suspect? If a suspect is actually identified and
there is probable cause for an arrest, a state or federal prosecutor must still
make a decision about whether there is enough evidence to obtain a signed
warrant from a judge and ultimately to try the case in court.

Many people believe the police make charging decisions that involve suspects,
but this is not how the system works. Charges against suspects have to be made
by prosecutors -- and prosecutors base their charging decisions on multiple
factors. It is not uncommon for a district attorney or federal prosecutor to
send a case back to detectives requesting "more information or follow-up" before
they will move forward with prosecution.

In some instances, it is simply not possible for detectives to obtain additional
information, so a case may be stalled for months or even years. This is often
extremely disappointing to family members or friends of the victim, who may
believe a case is "going nowhere" because the police and/or prosecutors "simply
don't care." This is simply not true. Nothing makes officers and detectives more
frustrated than "knowing" who committed a crime, yet not having sufficient
evidence to get a suspect charged and tried in court. This is not an uncommon
occurrence in Richmond homicide cases.

Prosecutors are legally and morally obligated to not file charges against a
suspect unless they believe they can convince a jury of 12, beyond a reasonable
doubt, of the suspect's guilt. People often ask why charges aren't filed in an
effort to make a suspect go to trial, even if the prosecutor knows the trial
will end in an acquittal. The reason for this is that such conduct could be
construed as malicious prosecution.

Resources: Almost every police agency believes it needs more resources to solve
(and of course, prevent) homicides and other serious gun crimes. The plain
truth, however, is that the need for additional resources (especially personnel)
is much greater in Richmond than many other communities, simply because of the
amount of gang violence and the overall challenges of crime in the city.

When I ask members of the public how many sworn police officers we have in
Richmond, I get answers like "1,000", or "500." We actually have 195 sworn
personnel, which includes everyone from the newest recruit (who may still need
to go through a Basic Police Academy or be partnered up with a training officer
for on-the-job training) all the way up to me -- the Chief. About 90 of our
personnel are patrol officers (about another 20 are supervisors: patrol
sergeants and lieutenants) -- and about between 15-30 of these personnel are on
duty at any given time patrolling the entire city. The remainder of our sworn
staff are detectives, officers assigned to special details like the Regulatory
Unit or Recruiting and Training, as well as Administrative personnel. In
addition, most people do not realize that we always have personnel on leave
days, vacation, going through mandatory training, recovering from injuries or on
long-term disability, and otherwise away from the job for a myriad of reasons.

There are approximately a dozen investigators available to handle homicides,
although about half of them are primarily assigned to work robberies. Homicides
tend to come in groups, so the reality is that these personnel can be spread
very thin. Homicide investigators may be called out day or night, 7 days a week,
and then work long, long hours to follow-up on a murder or serious shooting in
that key period following the crime(s).

Thanks to the support of the City Council and the City Manager, RPD has been
fortunate that our overall staffing levels have increased over the past 7 years.
Despite these increases, however, we are still staffed below what a city with
our level of crime ideally needs.

Our department utilizes a variety of technologies to assist us with the
investigation of violent crime, including Crime Lab services (which come with a
hefty price tag through the Sheriff's Department), Closed Circuit TV (also
expensive and complicated to operate, maintain, and monitor), ShotSpotter (which
triangulates gunfire to provide the location and type of gun being fired -- but
it can't help with the fact that shooters generally don't stick around for the
police!), and license plate readers (LPRs). Residents often assume these
technologies are available and functioning throughout the entire city, but
because of cost, they are mostly limited to neighborhoods with higher levels of
violent crime. This is frustrating to many members of the public and police
officers alike, who wish there was a camera or a gunshot sensor available and
operating in every area where crimes occur.

The Department also relies on our crime analysis resources, including our
ability to track field contacts, provide timely crime data to our personnel, and
conduct meaningful analysis of crime trends. We have one Crime Analyst who works
behind the scenes with our officers and detectives to track serious crimes,
including gang activity. This has to be done carefully and accurately to protect
people's rights and to be most effective

Thanks to recent action by the City Council, the Department is contracting for a
service known as "Predictive Policing," which is being successfully used in
other cities, such as Los Angeles and New York City, to utilize complex
algorithms in predicting where future crimes are likely to occur so greater
resources can be placed in these locations. It sounds like science fiction, but
this process has a track record of proven positive results.

Ceasefire: The Richmond Police Department is part of the Ceasefire -- Lifelines
to Healing working group and overall effort. The Ceasefire program cannot
prevent all homicides, but it is recognized as a "best practice" around the
country to reduce shootings. The Ceasefire program involves police detectives
and other key individuals identifying persons involved in, or at high risk for
committing, gun violence. These individuals are then "called in" to participate
in a discussion about the law enforcement consequences (greater police
attention, enhanced prosecution efforts, etc.) for continuing to commit
shootings. They also hear an important message from the community, which is that
people care about them and that a support system exists to help them turn their
lives around. This effort involves community groups, service providers, the
faith community, formerly incarcerated individuals, and many others.

There are no instant or magical outcomes associated with the Ceasefire program,
but real prevention and long-term successes are hard to measure and difficult to
achieve. This program requires the persistent dedication and commitment of many
people and groups. It also requires sufficient funding and resources to provide
effective interventions. To provide sustainable interventions, shooters who want
to make major life changes often need life-skills training, employment, mental
health and substance abuse services, anger management and conflict resolution
skills, education, and other assistance. Few of these services are available to
the degree they are needed in our community, despite the best efforts of many
groups and people.

No Giving Up: Here's one especially important thing I'd like people to know
about our homicide investigations: We don't give up. Homicide cases are never
closed. Even when evidence is very limited and no witnesses have come forward;
even when we have exhausted all leads -- unsolved homicide cases remain open in
case information or evidence is developed later (sometimes years later) that
helps us solve a case and charge a suspect.

A good example of this is a 2009 homicide case that our investigators just made
an arrest on. We know how important this kind of closure is to victims' families
and friends. It's also important to our personnel, who have often spent several
thousand hours investigating a case. Our personnel are invested in these cases.

Another important thing to keep in mind: The Department offers a standing
$10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the
person or persons who committed any homicide -- even a homicide many years ago.
Lesser rewards may be available for critical information that helps us with
other serious shooting cases.

I hope this information has helped explain the ongoing work and challenges faced
by the police (and others) in addressing the problem of gun violence in our
community. This work is difficult and there are many obstacles to achieving
success. We are fortunate to have considerable support, and an ongoing
commitment for this work, from our City Council and other regional elected
leaders. We also have a caring group of residents who are highly invested in
this effort. That said, nothing is easy -- and our needs remain considerable. I
appreciate your time in learning more about these issues and your willingness to
partner with us as we move forward.

Chris Magnus

Chief of Police

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
