
                               1 of 22 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2014 Washington Law Review Association
                             Washington Law Review

                                  March, 2014

                             Washington Law Review

                              89 Wash. L. Rev. 35

LENGTH: 14536 words

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND THE LAW: ESSAY: POLICING BY NUMBERS: BIG DATA AND
THE FOURTH AMENDMENT

NAME: Elizabeth E. Joh*

BIO: * Professor of Law, U.C. Davis School of Law (eejoh@ucdavis.edu). Thanks to
David Ball, Jack Chin, David Horton, Wayne Logan, Erin Murphy, and Charles
Reichmann for comments and suggestions, to the librarians of the Mabie Law
Library for research assistance, to the staff of the Washington Law Review for
the invitation to contribute to the Examining Artificial Intelligence symposium
and for their editorial work, and to the U.C. Davis School of Law for
institutional support.

TEXT:
 [*35]

   INTRODUCTION


   The age of "big data" has come to policing. In Chicago, police officers are
paying particular attention to members of a "heat list": those identified by a
risk analysis as most likely to be involved in future violence. n1 In Charlotte,
North Carolina, the police have compiled foreclosure data to generate a map of
high-risk areas that are likely to be hit by crime. n2 In New York City, the
N.Y.P.D. has partnered with Microsoft to employ a "Domain Awareness System" that
collects and links information from sources like CCTVs, license plate readers,
radiation sensors, and informational databases. n3 In Santa Cruz, California,
the police have reported a dramatic reduction in burglaries after relying upon
computer algorithms that predict where new burglaries are likely to occur. n4
The Department of Homeland Security has applied computer analytics to Twitter
feeds to find words like "pipe bomb," "plume," and "listeria." n5

    [*36]  Big data has begun to transform government in fields as diverse as
public health, transportation management, and scientific research. n6 The
analysis of what were once unimaginable quantities of digitized data is likely
to introduce dramatic changes to a profession which, as late as 1900, involved
little more than an able-bodied man who was given a hickory club, a whistle, and
a key to a call box. n7 Real-time access to and analysis of vast quantities of
information found in criminal records, police databases, and surveillance data
may alter policing n8 in the same way that big data has revolutionized areas as
diverse as presidential elections, n9 internet commerce, n10 and language
translation. n11 Some have even heralded big data's potential to change our
assumptions about social relationships, government, scientific study, and even
knowledge itself. n12

   In the private sector, retailers have harnessed big data to produce some
seemingly trivial but surprising changes to their practices. n13 A much
discussed example stems from Target's extensive use of data analytics to
identify certain purchases, such as supplements commonly taken during pregnancy,
to know whether a customer is pregnant,  [*37]  without the woman disclosing the
pregnancy herself. n14 For a retailer, pregnancy is a prime opportunity to
target a consumer when shopping habits change and expand. An irate father
allegedly complained to Target that his daughter was unfairly targeted as a
pregnant woman with coupons only to discover, to his chagrin, that Target was
better informed than he was. n15 Similarly, Walmart, through its computerized
retail tracking, has discovered that Strawberry Pop-Tarts and beer sell as
briskly as flashlights when hurricanes are forecast. These products were quickly
shipped to Florida Walmart stores in the path of Hurricane Frances in 2004. n16

   Yet unlike the data crunching performed by Target, Walmart, or Amazon, the
introduction of big data to police work raises new and significant challenges to
the regulatory framework that governs conventional policing. From one
perspective, the Fourth Amendment has proven remarkably flexible over time.
Constitutional law has governed ordinary policing whether the crimes involved
bootlegging, n17 numbers running, n18 marijuana farming, n19 or cell phones. n20
As the sophistication of criminals has increased, so too have the tools of the
police. In the twentieth century, perhaps no two tools have been as
revolutionary to modern policing as the two way radio and the patrol car. n21

   In this century, big data - in a variety of forms - may bring the next
dramatic change to police investigations. One researcher has concluded that it
will soon be technologically possible and affordable for  [*38]  government to
record everything anyone says or does. n22 How well will the Fourth Amendment's
rules pertaining to unreasonable searches and seizures adapt to the uses of big
data? Scholars have widely discussed the shortcomings of applying Fourth
Amendment doctrines, once adequate for a world of electronic beepers, physical
wiretaps, and binocular surveillance, to rapidly changing technologies. n23 But
big data may magnify these concerns considerably.

   This article identifies three uses of big data that hint at the future of
policing and the questions these tools raise about conventional Fourth Amendment
analysis. Two of these examples, predictive policing and mass surveillance
systems, have already been adopted by a small number of police departments
around the country. A third example - the potential use of DNA databank samples
- presents an untapped source of big data analysis. Whether any of these three
examples of big data policing attract more widespread adoption by the police is
yet unknown, but it likely that the prospect of being able to analyze large
amounts of information quickly and cheaply will prove to be attractive. While
seemingly quite distinct, these three uses of big data suggest the need to draw
new Fourth Amendment lines now that the government has the capability and desire
to collect and manipulate large amounts of digitized information.

   I. THE RISE OF BIG DATA

 What is big data? While not everyone agrees on a single definition of big data,
most agree that the term refers to: (1) the application of artificial
intelligence (2) to the vast amount of digitized data now available. n24 From
this basic definition, a few observations emerge about  [*39]  what is distinct
and significant about big data. n25

   First, big data alerts us to the sheer amount of information that is being
produced rapidly every year in digital form. n26 The turn towards digitized
information has been rapid and dramatic. As recently as the year 2000, only a
quarter of the world's stored information was digital; the majority of it was on
film, paper, magnetic tapes, and other similar non-digital media. n27 Today, the
opposite is true; nearly all of the world's stored information is digital: about
2.7 zettabytes in 2012. n28

   Digital information continues to grow at a rapid pace. According to IBM,
ninety percent of the world's data has been generated in the past two years. n29
The Executive Chairman of Google has claimed that we now create as much
information in two days as we did from the beginning of human civilization to
2003. n30 Some have suggested that we may run out of ways to quantify
numerically the amount of data generated. n31

   Nearly every piece of information today is capable of digitization and
storage, including Internet searches, retail purchases, Facebook posts,
cellphone calls, highway toll usage, and every last word in books. n32 Cheap,
small, and sophisticated sensors and tracking devices have been built into every
sort of product and object: smartphones, cars, toll  [*40]  transponders,
library books, and internet use. n33 The city of Santander, Spain is a prototype
of the coming "smart city," with 12,000 sensors buried underground that measure
everything from air pollution to free parking spaces. n34 The resulting data
doesn't disappear; it ends up in "data barns" that store the ever-growing amount
of information. n35 Wal-Mart handles more than a million customer transactions
every hour, resulting in databases storing more than 2.5 petabytes of
information. n36 In 2008, Facebook boasted storage of 40 billion photos. n37 The
Library of Congress decided in 2010 to archive every public "tweet" generated on
Twitter: about 170 billion tweets (and counting) in January 2013. n38

   Second, because the term also refers to the artificial intelligence applied
to these huge data sets, the big data phenomenon also suggests a change in the
way we understand our world. If conventional scientific research begins with a
hypothesis or question that then shapes the collection of the relevant data, the
big data phenomenon turns such conventions upside down. Because data is being
collected and stored all of the time, research questions do not have to shape or
limit data collection at all. n39 Researchers need not limit themselves to data
sampling, either. Big data permits the study of a phenomenon where the set is
nearly everything that is possible to study (another way of stating  [*41]  that
we are approaching n=all). n40 The existence of these massive data sets permits
sifting and resifting of the information therein for multiple purposes. n41
Thus, the Library of Congress's continuous collection of "tweets" has interested
researchers with questions as diverse as the role of public responses to smoking
ads, changes in investor sentiments, and real-time hurricane analysis. n42

   Such massive quantities of information also suggest that the very kinds of
questions posed by researchers will be different in the big data context. With
so much data available, Viktor Mayer-Schonberger and Kenneth Cukier argue that
two conventions of traditional research - a working hypothesis and the search
for causality - are no longer necessary given the insights that can be derived
from correlations found in big data. n43 The existence of huge amounts of data
permits research into correlations that don't require an underlying hypothesis.
For instance, Google's mathematical models have identified the forty-five search
terms (e.g. "medicine for cough and fever") most strongly identified with
historical flu data. n44 The resulting Google Flu Trends has proven to be
remarkably accurate in matching the historical surveillance data collected by
the Centers for Disease Control. n45 Thus, we can predict new outbreaks of the
flu simply by identifying correlations between Google search terms and the
spread of seasonal flu. n46 These predictions  [*42]  are useful in their
predictive value even though they provide no causal explanation, much in the
same way that Amazon's algorithms can predict that you might like a product
based on its analysis without caring why. n47 A key contribution of big data is
the ability to find useful correlations within data sets not capable of analysis
by ordinary human assessment.

   II. USE OF BIG DATA IN POLICING

 Across the country, some police departments have taken notice that they stand
to benefit from big data. While the use of big data in the private sector has
raised concerns about consumer privacy, its use by the police raises even bigger
questions about the limits of using data to justify surveillance, investigation,
and detention by the police. This section discusses three of the most important
developments in use of big data by the police: crime prediction, mass
surveillance, and DNA databanks.

   A. Crime Prediction: Predictive Policing

 Perhaps the most visible use of big data by police departments thus far has
been predictive policing: the application of computer modeling to historical
crime data to predict future criminal activity. n48 While the police have long
tried to find patterns of criminal activity on which to focus their resources,
n49 predictive policing permits the police to harness thousands of data points
to forecast where crime is likely to happen. The most basic models rely on past
crimes, but data sources can include factors as variable as payday schedules,
seasonal variation, liquor store  [*43]  locations, and potential escape routes.
n50

   What is new about predictive policing is not the use of quantitative data.
n51 In the 1990s, the N.Y.P.D. ushered in an era of intelligence-based policing.
n52 Under Commissioner Bill Bratton, the N.Y.P.D. introduced the now famous
CompStat system n53: weekly meetings at the N.Y.P.D. headquarters at which a
revolving group of commanding officers around the city gave accountings of
themselves for the recent crime data collected in their precinct. n54 By
evaluating performance by the rise or fall of crime data within their precincts,
CompStat meetings forced accountability upon commanding officers. Such
data-driven policing spread to other departments around the United States when
crime rates began to fall dramatically within New York City, n55 a result the
police attributed to its reliance upon CompStat, along with the adoption of
"broken windows" policing n56 and aggressive stop and frisk tactics. n57  [*44]
CompStat and similar programs inspired by it rely on the collection of crime
statistics to inform police decision-making. n58

   The innovation of predictive policing is the application of artificial
intelligence to such large data sets. CompStat relied heavily on the collection
and display of past crime data; predictive policing applies computer analysis to
similar information. The identification of future geographic places likely to be
targeted by criminals has attracted the most attention. These predictive models
all rely on well-established observations about the spatial distribution of
criminal behavior. Crime is not found randomly across a city, but rather tends
to fall within limited, and often very small, areas. n59 (Crime tends to be
"lumpy.") For instance, researchers found that over a fourteen year period,
about fifty percent of the crime in Seattle was limited to 4.5 percent of the
city's street segments. n60 Based upon this connection between crime and place,
computer models adopt different approaches towards the prediction of crime.

   For instance, the Santa Cruz Police Department uses software that assumes
that crime patterns follow a pattern similar to earthquake aftershocks. n61 The
software applies a computer algorithm to a database representing five years'
worth of crime data (including crime time, location, and type) to assess the
likelihood of future crime occurring in the geographic areas within the city,
narrowed to squares measured 500 by 500 feet (Figure A). n62 Prior to each
shift, Santa Cruz police officers  [*45]  receive information identifying 15
such squares with the highest probability of crime, and are encouraged - though
not required - to provide greater attention to these areas. n63 After its
experimental introduction in 2011, the Santa Cruz Police Department reported a
significant drop in burglaries when compared to a period prior to the adoption
of predictive policing. n64 Similar experiments relying upon this software are
being conducted by the police in Los Angeles and Seattle. n65

   [SEE FIGURE A IN ORIGINAL]

   Figure A: Predictive Policing Map n66

   Other approaches may consider additional factors other than the timing and
location of past crimes. Risk terrain theory, for example, looks at the social,
physical, and behavioral factors that make it more likely certain areas will be
targeted by crime. n67 The resulting risk terrain  [*46]  map, which gives each
factor its own mapping "layer," is a composite map that assigns a risk
assessment for all of the factors associated with criminal activity. n68 For
example, police in Morris County, New Jersey, use five factors for their risk
terrain modeling: (1) past burglaries; (2) the residential location of
individuals recently arrested for property crimes; (3) the proximity to major
highways; (4) the geographic concentration of young men; and (5) the location of
apartment complexes and hotels. n69 Morris County police attribute significant
drops in violent and property crime to a reliance on risk terrain modeling. n70

   A second type of predictive technology focuses on the application of
algorithms to social media in order to identify likely criminality based on the
role an individual plays within a social network. n71 This social network
analysis n72 begins with the assumption that social networks undergird many
crimes: an illegal drug-dealing network may loosely follow the hierarchical
structure of a legitimate business, with suppliers, distributors, buyers, and
financiers. n73 (Indeed, this type of analysis has its roots in the military
study of insurgent groups abroad. n74) The algorithms used in social network
software can help police visualize the density of connections an individual has
within a social network. These connections might take the form of exchanges,
communications, family ties, participation in crimes, or affiliations with an
organization. n75

[*47]

   [SEE FIGURE B IN ORIGINAL]

   Figure B: Hypothetical Social Network Analysis n76

 When used by a police department, social network analysis might be used to
identify a "central node": a person with a high degree of "connectivity within
the network" (Figure B). n77 While traditional police work might easily identify
leaders within a criminal organization, social network analysis can identify
those with influence or those who transmit information within the group quickly
and yet whose roles are not otherwise apparent. n78 The software can even reveal
deliberately concealed affiliations. Even if an individual suspected of being
part of a criminal organization does not admit his affiliation, social network
software can calculate the probability of his membership. n79

   How does such software help police investigations? The identification of a
highly "networked" individual could permit the police to infiltrate an
organization in the most efficient way, or to identify a hidden source of
influence within an organization for further investigation. n80 Also, by
revealing hidden relationships among groups, police can disrupt subterfuges by
rival criminal organizations. In a gang war, one group likely to retaliate may
not do so directly, for fear of being targeted by the  [*48]  police, and
instead may enlist an ally gang. n81 Social network analysis can help understand
which alliances might require heightened surveillance. n82

   B. Mass Surveillance: Domain Awareness Systems

 If predictive policing harnesses data to predict the future, computer
surveillance systems help police create a software-enhanced picture of the
present, using thousands of data points from multiple sources within a city. As
with predictive policing, computer enhanced mass surveillance grows out of other
policing techniques. n83 While surveillance has long been an essential tool of
the police, what has changed is its supporting technology. Sophisticated yet
inexpensive, the surveillance equipment used by the police today produces
enormous amounts of information, often too much for the police to use in an
efficient way without the help of technology. The N.Y.P.D., for instance, has a
database of 16 million license plates captured from its license plate readers,
along with the locations of where the plates were photographed. n84

   The N.Y.P.D. has responded to this big data problem by creating a software
program with Microsoft. Dubbed a "domain awareness system" ("DAS"), n85 the
software collects and analyzes information around the clock within New York City
from sources as disparate as the city's 3,000 public surveillance cameras, n86
over 200 automatic license plate readers, n87 more than 2,000 radiation sensors,
n88 and information from  [*49]  police databases. n89 The software's mapping
features permit the police to see and understand the information in a way that
was not possible before. Located within the N.Y.P.D.'s lower Manhattan Security
Initiative Command Center, the Domain Awareness System's operators can quickly
use the software to identify potential threats. n90

   This system gives the police real-time access to information that can reveal
connections between persons, items, and places in ways that may not be obvious
to individual crime analysts. The DAS employs video analytic software designed
to detect threats, such as unattended bags. n91 The N.Y.P.D. claims that the DAS
can track where a car associated with a suspect is located, and where it has
been in the past days, weeks, or months. n92 The DAS can also check license
plate numbers, compare them to watch lists, and provide the police with
immediate access to any criminal history associated with the car owner. n93 In
November 2013, the N.Y.P.D. relied on its DAS to watch nearly every portion of
the New York City Marathon route, a potential terrorist target after the Boston
Marathon bombings in April 2013. n94

   While New York City has received the most attention for its high-tech
approach to surveillance, other cities have shown interest in these mass
surveillance systems. Oakland, California, a much smaller city in  [*50]
comparison but plagued with a high crime rate, n95 has decided to launch a
Domain Awareness Center n96 poised to collect and analyze surveillance data
"from gunshot-detection sensors in the barrios of East Oakland to license plate
readers mounted on police cars patrolling the city's upscale hills." n97 The
resulting analysis will be displayed on a bank of giant monitors providing
Oakland police with a unified visual representation of the very different
sources: police and fire dispatch systems, gunshot detectors, license plate
readers, private alarm detection programs, and social media feeds. n98

   C. Genetic Big Data: DNA Databanks

 Perhaps less obvious but no less important a big data matter is the collection
of DNA for criminal justice databases, which as of June 2013 contained DNA
profiles for 10.7 million offenders and 1.7 million arrestees. n99 The United
States has used this information to amass the largest DNA database in the world.
n100 Police agencies around the country rely on CODIS - the shorthand for the
system that links information among the different DNA databases around the
country n101 -  [*51]  to match crime scene samples with offender or arrestee
DNA profiles. n102 The millions of DNA samples now accessible by the police
present another potential use of big data.

   The rapid growth of American DNA databases can be attributed to the
ever-expanding categories of those deemed eligible for compulsory DNA
collection. While the first state DNA databases collected samples only from
violent felons or felony sex offenders, today every state collects DNA from all
convicted felons. n103 A majority of states collect DNA from those convicted of
misdemeanor sex offenses. n104 In 2012, New York became the first "all crimes
state." n105 Nearly every person convicted of a crime in New York, regardless of
its gravity, will be required to submit a DNA sample for inclusion in the
state's DNA database. n106

   The reliance of states upon arrestee DNA collection appears to be following a
similar path. In 1997, Louisiana became the first state to authorize the
collection of DNA from some categories of arrestees. n107 Today, twenty-eight
more states and the federal government have followed Louisiana's lead in
requiring some categories of arrestees to provide DNA samples. n108 The Supreme
Court's 2013 decision in  [*52]  Maryland v. King n109 upholding compulsory
arrestee DNA collection n110 will likely mean that the practice will expand to
many other states. n111

   How do DNA databases raise big data questions? First, the emerging and
controversial use of familial matches is in fact a big data issue. Based on the
assumption that close relatives share more genetic information than unrelated
individuals, familial searches are searches of DNA databases that look for
profiles that only partially match the thirteen STR markers n112 on a DNA
profile. n113 (Such a search might take place, for instance, if a CODIS search
yields no identical match. n114) Familial searches take advantage of the big
data set that is CODIS: the capability to search millions of individual DNA
profiles. n115 Additional testing on DNA samples may be necessary to confirm
potential matches. n116

   Similar to other uses of big data, a familial search repurposes (genetic)
data collected for another reason (identical matches). n117 Critics of familial
searches have focused on issues of privacy and equity, including the concern
that familial searches will draw disproportionate  [*53]  attention to racial
and ethnic minorities who may be unfairly targeted for genetic surveillance.
n118 Yet if we think of familial searches as big data problems, we might also
make some useful connections to other areas in which data is being amassed in
large quantities for one purpose and later used for another. For instance,
policies on familial searches might follow principles of informational privacy
used in other database contexts, including limited later analysis to the
specific original purpose for which the information was collected. n119

   This potential for repurposing is not limited to familial searches of CODIS,
either. A profile in the national DNA database is a string of numbers referring
to the thirteen STR locations. n120 Most courts analyzing Fourth Amendment
challenges to the compulsory collection of DNA have focused only on the DNA
profile to deny that their collection and storage by the government raises
serious privacy concerns. n121 What is often ignored, however, is that these
numbers are generated from biological samples. n122 These samples pose rich data
possibilities; information that could be analyzed in different ways for a
variety of purposes. n123 Indeed, David Lazer and Viktor Mayer-Schonberger argue
[*54]  that the very existence of these DNA samples "invites re-purposing at a
later stage." n124

   At the moment, however, practical and legal barriers bar this possibility.
n125 Although state laws vary with regard to storage, retention, and disclosure
requirements, n126 federal law imposes conditions on those samples used to
generate profiles for CODIS. For instance, federal law requires that all samples
used for CODIS profiles are subject to disclosure only to "criminal justice
agencies for law enforcement identification purposes," "in judicial
proceedings," "for criminal defense purposes," and for a "population statistics
database, identification research and protocol development purposes, or for
quality control purposes." n127 At the same time, most state laws contemplate
indefinite retention of most DNA samples. n128 Justifications for indefinite DNA
sample retention include the need to identify potential sample contamination or
mix-ups, to implement changes in the technology used to analyze samples, and to
provide lab quality assurance. n129

    [*55]  For the now, practical barriers also bar comprehensive analysis of
the millions of samples collected for criminal justice purposes. While human
genome sequencing is vastly cheaper today than it was a few years ago, it likely
remains prohibitively costly for states to undertake on a massive scale. n130
These practical and legal impediments may, however, change one day. As
technological capabilities change, costs decrease, and a greater understanding
of genetic information emerges, the use of DNA databases will raise serious
questions for lawmakers about the appropriate balance of big data analysis and
privacy protections. n131

   III. HOW BIG DATA CHALLENGES FOURTH AMENDMENT ANALYSIS

 These evolving areas raise new questions about how best to regulate the use of
big data by the police. In particular, they arise from three characteristics of
big data: the use of artificial intelligence, the scale of data storage, and the
repurposing of collected data. This section considers some of the difficult
questions that judges and lawmakers will face.

   A. Human Judgment and Police Suspicion

 While popular accounts misleadingly suggest that predictive policing involves
police decision-making controlled by computers, n132 even partial reliance on
artificial intelligence does raise important Fourth Amendment questions. Police
are using predictive policing software to direct them to places where they
believe there is a high likelihood of criminal activity. Having been directed
there by computer analysis, the police must then determine whether any persons
located there warrant further investigation. What role should artificial
intelligence and human judgment play in Fourth Amendment individualized
suspicion?

   At a minimum, ordinary investigative detentions by the police require  [*56]
reasonable suspicion n133 based on a totality of the circumstances. n134 The
Supreme Court's decisions have permitted the police to formulate reasonable
suspicion based not only on their own personal observations, but also on other
information, including fellow officers, n135 tips (even anonymous ones), n136
and sometimes even on determinations that particular geographic locations may be
labeled as "high crime areas." n137 In particular, tips relied upon by the
police must be sufficiently particularized to an individual, in some part
predictive of future activity, and corroborated by the observation of the police
themselves. n138

   The question here is whether predictive software based on historical crime
data is similar to other uses of third party information that have already been
held to support a reasonable suspicion determination. n139 Imagine that such
software directs the police to a city block to look for property crime, and they
observe activity that by itself may not appear obviously suspicious, such as
carrying a duffel bag, or peering in windows. n140 A probabilistic determination
is not exactly like an informant's tip, particularly since predictive software
provides assessments about geographic areas and not persons. n141 Nevertheless,
a  [*57]  court might analogize computerized predictions to informant-based
predictions about specific places - such as drug houses and hourly motels - to
add to the reasonable suspicion assessment. n142 While likely not sufficient on
its own to provide justification for a stop (because of its lack of specificity
with regard to persons), such predictions could form the basis of police
observation and corroboration. n143

   So long as predictive software is not the sole justification used by police,
courts are likely to accept its place within the reasonable suspicion analysis.
If, for instance, courts were to borrow assessments of credibility and veracity
from the informant context, n144 predictive software may provide more
justification than an anonymous informant. The assumptions and inputs of such
software, after all, are capable of verification. n145 Indeed, to the extent
that the Supreme Court has emphasized that the reasonable suspicion
determination is to be objective, n146 reliance on a computer analysis of crime
data is arguably more objective than an inference made by an officer or a tip
provided by a third party. Software with a demonstrated history of successfully
predicting high crime areas based on verifiable crime data is likely to be a
highly persuasive factor in the reasonable suspicion formulation.

   Indeed, predictive software may remove some of the problems raised by the
types of information used. Informants, particularly anonymous ones, can have
questionable motivations in aiding the police. n147 In  [*58]  addition, most
courts are highly deferential to generalized police judgments of what
constitutes a "high-crime area." n148 Software that eliminates undesirable
biases and requires quantitative precision can introduce more fairness into the
police decision-making process. n149

   Some caveats remain, however. First, no predictive policing program is
entirely objective. The basic building blocks of a predictive software program
necessarily involve human discretion. n150 The assumptions underlying any method
of crime prediction rely upon the decision to choose one model of risk
prediction over another. The data used to build the models will depend on
discretionary judgments about the types of crimes used for prediction, and the
type of information used to predict those crimes. Should a police department
focus on burglaries; and if so, how are burglaries to be measured? For example,
reliance on arrest rates is surely problematic n151 because arrests themselves
are discretionary decisions that, if used as the basis to justify more
attention, may simply reinforce unjustified police stereotypes that certain
neighborhoods need heavier police attention. n152

   Second, prediction models might nudge police judgments in favor of
investigative detention in borderline cases because the police rely too  [*59]
heavily on probabilistic information. n153 If, for example, a predictive model
directs the police to look at a particular block for burglaries, then it may
encourage the police to "see" suspicious behavior when there may be none. n154
The danger here is that an overreliance on the objectivity of prediction - which
is in fact an informed probabilistic guess - will be determinative, rather than
a supplement to independent assessments by the police.

   B. Privacy and Surveillance Big Data

 What we do in public can be seen by anyone and therefore we generally cannot
claim those activities are private. That intuition is embodied in the Katz
reasonable expectation of privacy test to determine whether the Fourth Amendment
applies to police activity at all. n155 But does assuming the risk of police
surveillance mean something different when the police have mass surveillance
capabilities?

   Computer enhanced mass surveillance systems would seem to be the latest
example of the increasing sophistication of police technologies to monitor
public activity. Decades of police reliance upon CCTV cameras, electronic
beepers, listening devices, surveillance aircraft, and other similar sense
enhancements have prompted concerns that these measures have significantly
eroded any social sense of privacy individuals have in public. n156 Indeed, the
Supreme Court has emphasized in a number of cases that our public activities,
movements, and even our literal physical characteristics visible to the public
lack Fourth Amendment protection. n157

    [*60]  Moreover, a line of Supreme Court cases suggests that any "scientific
enhancement" of the senses used by the police to watch activity falls outside of
the Fourth Amendment's protections if the activity takes place in public. n158
Thus, the Supreme Court concluded in United States v. Knotts that police use of
an electronic beeper to follow a suspect surreptitiously did not constitute a
Fourth Amendment search. n159 The premise underlying such a conclusion is that
if the police could themselves pursue a suspect over the same public roads, then
so too could an electronic beeper concealed within a container given to the
unwitting suspect. n160

   The surveillance capacities of the police today, however, far exceed even
what armies of police officers could accomplish without access to big data. n161
That difference should alter the absence of Fourth Amendment protections.
Indeed, several Justices have recently indicated concerns about the big data
surveillance capacities of the police. n162 For example, in United States v.
Jones n163 (regarding the twenty-eight day GPS tracking of a single suspect n164
), five Justices expressed concerns that long-term police surveillance, even of
a person's public movements, might constitute a Fourth Amendment search. n165
The premise here, sometimes referred to as the "mosaic theory," is that the
danger to Fourth Amendment privacy lies in the aggregation of discrete bits of
data, even if each piece standing alone would not be subjected to constitutional
protections. n166 Indeed, the majority in Knotts  [*61]  acknowledged that
"dragnet-type law enforcement practices," such as "twenty-four hour surveillance
of any citizen of this country," might raise a Fourth Amendment problem while
the use of a beeper did not. n167

   Not only is the quantity of information collected in the big data context far
greater, the very nature of surveillance itself is different. If conventional
surveillance involves the intentional tracking of one or a few suspects by
actual police officers, what happens when a person "emerges" as a surveillance
target as a result of a computer analysis? In the traditional surveillance
context, the police have not been constrained by the Fourth Amendment so long as
their investigations neither interfered with an individual's movements, nor
ranged beyond public spaces. n168 As the Supreme Court has observed, there is no
constitutional right to be free from police investigation. n169

   But this surveillance discretion may mean something different in the big data
context. The intentional surveillance of targeted individuals is not equivalent
to the perpetual "indiscriminate data collection" n170 of entire populations.
While both approaches involve watching by the government, a program like the
N.Y.P.D.'s "total domain awareness" system differs from traditional surveillance
enough to warrant a different approach. n171 The very quality of public life may
be different when government watches everyone - surreptitiously - and stores all
of the resulting information. n172

    [*62]  Practical barriers have long served to protect individual privacy by
forcing the police to selectively apply their resources and interests, n173 but
those barriers have now largely eroded. n174 The ability of government to
record, store, and analyze nearly everything we do is now becoming
technologically possible and affordable. n175 By 2015, it will cost just two
cents to store all of the audio data generated by the average person in one
year; storing a year's worth of a person's movements generated by their
cellphone will cost next to nothing. n176 These expanded capabilities raise the
possibility of a "surveillance time machine": the capacity of the government to
identify a person of interest and then search retrospectively through all of the
data that has been stored and collected about that person. n177 While some
people have already changed their personal habits to avoid this mass
surveillance, many likely have not. n178

   The longstanding doctrines declaring that we lack any Fourth Amendment
protections in the public sphere should not hold its traditional force once the
police deploy the tools of big data. n179 "Knowing exposure" suggests a degree
of control over one's information that is lacking when the government is capable
of recording and storing every small detail in perpetuity. n180 Thus the
traditional assumptions about Fourth Amendment protections in public spaces,
[*63]  absent statutory protections from Congress, call out for reexamination
and doctrinal adaptation.

   C. Repurposing Information

 Google's reuse of search terms to identify flu outbreaks represents an upending
of a core research convention: formulate a hypothesis first, and then collect
the appropriate data. n181 With big data, we can collect (nearly all) the data
first, and apply the questions later. n182 Indeed, the data can be analyzed in
multiple ways at multiple times. n183 It is this repurposing or resifting of
data that has led to some of big data's unexpected insights, like Google's flu
analysis.

   When it is the police who sift through the data, however, the Fourth
Amendment is ill-suited to this particular relationship of data collection and
analysis. The Fourth Amendment is primarily interested in the legitimacy of how
information is acquired. n184 If the acquisition is permissible, how the police
use that information thereafter is generally not subject to an additional Fourth
Amendment challenge. n185 This suggests that once legitimately within the
government's possession, information can be repurposed and reanalyzed without
any additional Fourth Amendment justification. n186 In the case of genetic
information, courts have been generally dismissive of claims that individuals
have any Fourth Amendment claims to DNA samples once lawfully acquired  [*64]
by the police, but used for investigative purposes unrelated to the original
justification for the sample's collection. n187

   Is a secondary analysis of an individual's DNA sample to find a familial
match sufficiently similar to an analysis to find whether that same individual
is responsible for another crime? Are there other sorts of information to be
derived from DNA samples that ought to require distinct Fourth Amendment
justifications? Repurposing a DNA sample to look for information regarding
someone other than the source of the sample raises sufficient privacy concerns
that some further government justifications may be necessary. n188 Such a search
does more than "identify" again the source of the DNA sample in a subsequent
police investigation. n189

   The government's ability to reanalyze information - of any sort - in the age
of big data calls out for a new approach. What courts could do is shift the
focus of the Fourth Amendment from data collection to a more rigorous scrutiny
of its intended uses by the government. n190 Indeed, Harold Krent proposed
nearly twenty years ago that the repurposing of information by the government
obtained at an earlier time could be deemed unreasonable for Fourth Amendment
purposes. n191 Professor Krent suggested, for instance, that courts might
consider whether the seizure of a person's information would have been
reasonable had the government articulated the later use initially. n192 The
closer the  [*65]  government's secondary purpose is to its original purpose at
the time of acquisition, the more likely it should be that the government could
use the data without further justification.

   The case for Fourth Amendment protections regarding repurposed information is
stronger still should the government one day be interested in gleaning
information from DNA samples other than matching profiles to crime scene
samples. Here, the Supreme Court has hinted at a willingness to reassess the
balance of privacy and government utility at some future date. In Maryland v.
King, n193 in which the Court upheld the compulsory collection of DNA from
arrestees, n194 Justice Kennedy suggested that "if in the future police analyze
[DNA] samples to determine [other information], that case would present
additional privacy concerns not present here." n195 The resolution by the Court
regarding such a dispute may well turn, however, on the purposes claimed by the
government to mine that information. In King, the Court was willing to permit
defendant's cheek swab, and the subsequently generated DNA profile, without
individualized suspicion because the police were permitted to find out King's
"identity": a term broad enough to encompass any other crimes King had
committed. n196

   For now, however, the Court has left open the possibility that it may give
greater scrutiny to some sorts of repurposing. That, plus the existing statutory
protections on access and disclosure, may allay the concerns of many. n197 Yet
it would be overly optimistic to ignore two developments in the other direction:
the trend of Fourth Amendment law away from protection in these secondary
searches, and the Court's recent expansion of what the government may do for
purposes of "identification" when it comes to genetic information. n198

[*66]

   D. Beyond the Fourth Amendment

 Apart from the Fourth Amendment challenges raised by big data policing, an
uncritical embrace of these new technologies raises other concerns beyond
regulating the police. Whether practical or abstract, these concerns will be
easily swept aside by departments eager to be part of the next technological
wave in policing.

   First, many of these new technologies have been developed by private
companies whose motivations and concerns may not always be consonant with those
of a public police department. For instance, IBM has spent billions acquiring
data analytics companies in order to develop and market predictive tools to the
police. n199 Although PredPol was initially developed by academics, it is now a
for-profit company. n200 Similarly, Microsoft - and the N.Y.P.D. - will profit
from every new police department that adopts a total domain awareness system.
n201 Future interest in the further analysis of DNA samples will also benefit
some private laboratories.

   Second, the introduction of new big data technologies requires attention not
only to appropriate regulation, but also to questions about how well these
privately developed tools actually help to reduce crime. New technologies
possess understandable appeal for departments seeking innovative crime fighting
strategies. New strategies lend themselves toward positive media attention in a
way that "a poorly attended community meeting in a church basement" does not.
n202 Yet, for-profit purveyors of big data products may not provide the best
objective assessment of their products. The desirability of these new
technologies should not steer attention away from questions about how well they
reduce crime and conserve limited public resources compared to traditional
methods.

   A final concern is much more fundamental. The reliance on big data  [*67]  by
the police also poses the risk that the very definition of policing may be
changing. The promise of big data is a vision of policing that is driven and
assessed by quantitative measurements. Indeed, those police chiefs that have
already embraced big data tout the potential to rely on numbers when budgets for
police departments are shrinking. n203 The problem, however, is that a
technocratic solution to crime is not the only objective of democratic policing.
n204

   Reducing crime is not the only job of the police. Policing as an institution
has never been amenable to a single objective, n205 and indeed over time its
aims have shifted. n206 What is clear, however, is that democratic policing aims
at more than mere crime control and, at its core, relies on skills that do not
always lend themselves to statistical analysis. No amount of data-driven
policing is likely to assuage communities soured by long histories of tension
with the police. Nor will demonstrations of little red boxes on a smartphone
necessarily justify to a community the need for a heavy-handed police presence.

   CONCLUSION

 The use of big data is likely to become an ordinary aspect of policing. The
application of artificial intelligence to crime data promises immediate and
tangible benefits. We can gain some real insights about how to direct police
resources efficiently and effectively in ways that intuition, tradition, and
limited information have been unavailing. At the same time, the reliance upon
artificial intelligence and the collection of vast amounts of information poses
some special challenges in the policing context. Courts and legislatures will
need to think of Fourth  [*68]  Amendment issues in new ways to adequately
protect notions of individual privacy.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Computer & Internet LawCriminal OffensesData Crimes & FraudCriminal Law &
ProcedureCriminal OffensesFraudComputer FraudGeneral OverviewGovernmentsLocal
GovernmentsPolice Power

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Jeremy Gorner, Chicago Police Use "Heat List' as Strategy to Prevent
Violence, Chi. Trib. (Aug. 21, 2013),
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-08-21/news/ct-met-heat-list-20130821_1_
chicago-police-commander-andrew-papachristos-heat-list.





n2.  Michael Bess, Assessing the Impact of Home Foreclosures in Charlotte
Neighborhoods, Geography & Pub. Safety, Oct. 2008, at 2, 2.





n3.  Joe Coscarelli, The NYPD's Domain Awareness System is Watching You, N.Y.
Mag. (Aug. 9, 2012, 5:50 AM),
http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2012/08/nypd-domain-awareness-system-micros
oft-is-watching-you.html.





n4.  See Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y. Times
(Aug. 15, 2011), http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n5.  Somini Sengupta, In Hot Pursuit of Numbers to Ward Off Crime, N.Y. Times
(June 19, 2013, 10:48 PM),
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/in-hot-pursuit-of-numbers-to-ward-off-c
rime/?_r=0.





n6.  See, e.g., TechAmerica Found., Demystifying Big Data: A Practical Guide to
Transforming the Business of Government 12-15 (2012) (describing potential uses
of big data in healthcare, transportation, education, fraud detection, cyber
security, and weather).





n7.  See Mark H. Haller, Historical Roots of Police Behavior: Chicago,
1890-1925, 10 L. & Soc'y Rev. 303, 303 (1976).





n8.  Beth Pearsall, Predictive Policing: The Future of Law Enforcement?, Nat'l
Inst. Just. J., June 2010, at 16, 16, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/230414.pdf (describing its development as
having "the potential to transform law enforcement").





n9.  See Michael Scherer, Inside the Secret World of the Data Crunchers Who
Helped Obama Win, Time (Nov. 7, 2012),
http://swampland.time.com/2012/11/07/inside-the-secret-world-of-quants-and-data-
crunchers-who-helped-obama-win/print/ (quoting one Obama campaign official as
saying, "We ran the election 66,000 times every night" in computer simulations).





n10.  See, e.g., Viktor Mayer-Schonberger & Kenneth Cukier, Big Data: A
Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work, and Think 4-5 (2013)
(describing development of Farecast, which analyzes data from billions of flight
price records to predict airline ticket price variation).





n11.  See id. at 37-39 (describing language translation success of Google using
trillion word data set).





n12.  See, e.g., Adam Frank, Big Data Is the Steam Engine of Our Time, NPR (Mar.
12, 2013, 12:28 PM),
http://www.npr.org/blogs/13.7/2013/03/12/174028759/big-data-is-the-steam-engine-
of-our-time ("Big Data may be the steam engine of our time.").





n13.  Charles Duhigg, How Companies Learn Your Secrets, N.Y. Times (Feb. 16,
2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/19/magazine/shopping-habits.html?pagewanted=1
("Almost every major retailer, from grocery chains to investment banks to the
U.S. Postal Service, has a "predictive analytics' department ... .").





n14.  See id.





n15.  See id.





n16.  Constance L. Hays, What Wal-Mart Knows About Customers' Habits, N.Y. Times
(Nov. 14, 2004),
http://www.nytimes.com/2004/11/14/business/yourmoney/14wal.html.





n17.  See, e.g., Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 455-58, 465-66 (1928);
see also Photo Gallery, PBS,
http://www.pbs.org/kenburns/prohibition/media_detail/208 2733861-olmstead/ (last
visited Feb. 17, 2014) (noting that Roy Olmstead was nicknamed the "King of
Puget Sound Bootleggers").





n18.  See, e.g., Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 348, 358-59 (1967)
(illegal wagering).





n19.  See, e.g., Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 29-33, 40 (2001).





n20.  In United States v. Jones, __U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012), the Supreme
Court held that the government's attachment of a GPS tracking device on the
defendant's car required a warrant. Id. at 954. On remand, the government argued
that cell site data could be relied upon without a warrant, which the district
court permitted under the good faith exception to the exclusionary rule. See
United States v. Jones, Crim. Action No. 05-0386 (ESH) (D.D.C. Dec. 14, 2012),
available at
https://ecf.dcd.uscourts.gov/cgi-bin/show_public_doc?2005cr0386-658.





n21.  Cf. Samuel Walker, "Broken Windows" and Fractured History: The Use and
Misuse of History in Recent Police Patrol Analysis, 1 Just. Q. 75, 80 (1984)
("The mid-century revolution in American policing involved not just the patrol
car but the car in conjunction with the telephone and the two-way radio.").





n22.  John Villasenor, Brookings Institute, Recording Everything: Digital
Storage as an Enabler of Authoritarian Governments 1 (Dec. 14, 2011), available
at http://www.brookings.edu/<diff>/media/research/files/paper
s/2011/12/14%20digital%20storage%20villasenor/1214_digit
al_storage_villasenor.pdf.





n23.  A large literature has developed that critiques the limitations of modern
search and seizure law as applied to computer software and hardware, the
internet, new surveillance technologies, etc. See, e.g., Orin S. Kerr, The
Fourth Amendment and New Technologies: Constitutional Myths and the Case for
Caution, 102 Mich. L. Rev. 801, 803 n.7 (2004) (collecting sources espousing
this view); Dan Solove, Digital Dossiers and the Dissipation of Fourth Amendment
Privacy, 75 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1083, 1086-87 (2002) (arguing that the current view
on Fourth Amendment privacy "is not responsive to life in the modern Information
Age").





n24.  See, e.g., Steve Lohr, How Big Data Became So Big, N.Y. Times (Aug. 11,
2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/business/how-big-data-became-so-big-unboxed.ht
ml?smid=pl-share ("Big Data is a shorthand label that typically means applying
the tools of artificial intelligence, like machine learning, to vast new troves
of data beyond that captured in standard databases.").





n25.  Here, too, there are some who dispute whether big data is a new phenomenon
at all. See, e.g., Samuel Arbesman, Five Myths About Big Data, Wash. Post (Aug.
16, 2013),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/five-myths-about-big-data/2013/08/15/64a0
dd0a-e044-11e2-963a- 72d740e88c12_story.html (arguing that "big data has been
around for a long time").





n26.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 8-11 (describing vast
quantities of digitized data available today).





n27.  See Kenneth Neil Cukier & Viktor Mayer-Schoenberger, The Rise of Big Data:
How It's Changing the Way We Think About the World, Foreign Aff., May-June 2013,
at 28, 28.





n28.  Albert Pimental, Big Data: The Hidden Opportunity, Forbes (May 1, 2012),
http://www.forbes.com/sites/ciocentral/2012/05/01/big-data-the-hidden-opportunit
y/. One zettabyte is 10 to the power of 21 bytes. This is equivalent to the
amount of data which could fill 250 billion DVDs. Melody Kramer, The NSA Data:
Where Does It Go?, Nat'l Geographic (June 12, 2013),
http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2013/06/130612-nsa-utah-data-center-stor
age-zettabyte-snowden/.





n29.  IBM, IBM Big Data Success Stories 1 (2011), available at
http://public.dhe.ibm.com/
software/data/sw-library/big-data/ibm-big-data-success.pdf.





n30.  Google, Eric Schmidt at Technomy, YouTube (Aug. 4, 2010),
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UAcCIsrAq70.





n31.  The largest current recognized number is a yottabye: a digit with
twenty-four zeros. See Charles Walford, Information Overload: There Is So Much
Data Stored in the World That We May Run Out of Ways to Quantify It, Daily Mail
(Dec. 12, 2012), http://www.dailymail.co.uk/
sciencetech/article-2247081/There-soon-words-data-stored-world.html.





n32.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 83-97 (discussing the
"datafication of everything").





n33.  UPS, for example uses telematics sensors in more than 46,000 vehicles;
these tell the company about the speed, direction, braking, and drive train
performance of their trucks. See What is Big Data?, SAS,
http://www.sas.com/big-data/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n34.  Lauren Frayer, High-Tech Sensors Help Old Port City Leap Into Smart
Future, NPR (June 4, 2013, 3:27 AM),
http://www.npr.org/blogs/parallels/2013/06/04/188370672/Sensors
-Transform-Old-Spanish-Port-Into-New-Smart-City.





n35.  Indeed, a series of investigative reports by the New York Times has
revealed the relatively little-known environmental costs of huge data centers.
See, e.g., James Glanz, Power, Pollution and the Internet, N.Y. Times (Sept. 22,
2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/23/technology/data-centers-waste-vast-amounts-of-
energy-belying-industry-image.html (quoting an industry executive as describing
an "industry dirty secret"); James Glanz, Data Barns in a Farm Town, Gobbling
Power and Flexing Muscle, N.Y. Times (Sept. 23, 2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/24/
technology/data-centers-in-rural-washington-state-gobble-power.html?ref=us
(reporting on "sprawling and ubiquitous" "data barns").





n36.  See SAS, Big Data Meets Big Data Analytics 1 (2012), available at
http://www.sas.com /resources/whitepaper/wp_46345.pdf.





n37.  See Doug Beaver, 10 Billion Photos, Facebook (Oct. 14, 2008, 6:03 PM),
http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=30695603919.





n38.  Erin Allen, Update on the Twitter Archive at the Library of Congress,
Library of Congress Blog (Jan. 4, 2013),
http://blogs.loc.gov/loc/2013/01/update-on-the-twitter-archive-at-the-library-of
-congress/.





n39.  Mayer-Schonberger and Cukier discuss how the combination of cheap and easy
data storage with powerful analytic technology makes it possible to constantly
store data for purposes that may not be immediately apparent. See
Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 98-106.





n40.  See id. at 26 ("In many areas ... a shift is taking place from collecting
some data to gathering as much as possible, and if feasible, getting everything:
N = all.").





n41.  See id. at 122 ("The crux of data's worth is its seemingly unlimited
potential for reuse: its option value.").





n42.  Victor Luckerson, What the Library of Congress Plans to Do with All Your
Tweets, Time (Feb. 25, 2013),
http://business.time.com/2013/02/25/what-the-library-of-congress-plans-to-do-wit
h-all-your-tweets/.





n43.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 61 ("In a small-data
world, because so little data tended to be available, both causal investigations
and correlation analysis began with a hypothesis, which was then tested to be
either falsified or verified... . Today, with so much data around and more to
come, such hypotheses are no longer crucial for correlational analysis.").





n44.  See id. at 2.





n45.  See id.; see also Miguel Helft, Google Uses Searches to Track Flu's
Spread, N.Y. Times (Nov. 11, 2008),
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/12/technology/internet/12flu.html (reporting that
Google found "a strong correlation" between five years of its data and the
C.D.C.'s reports of flu).





n46.  Explore Flu Trends - United States, Google.org,
http://www.google.org/flutrends/us/#US (last visited Feb. 17, 2014). Google has
done the same with dengue trends around the world. Dengue Trends Around the
World, Google.org, http://www.google.org/denguetrends/intl/en_us/ (last visited
Feb. 17, 2014). The same approach has been taken with information generated by
Twitter. See Adam Sadilek et al., Ass'n for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence, Modeling Spread of Disease from Social Interactions (2012),
available at http://
www.cs.rochester.edu/<diff>sadilek/publications/Sadilek-Kautz-Silenzio_Modeling-
Spread-of-Disease-from-Social- Interactions_ICWSM-12.pdf (last visited Feb. 17,
2014). Such big data analysis is not perfect, however. Google's algorithms were
grossly inaccurate in winter of 2012-13 and predicted far more cases than the
CDC counted. Part of the problem may be that the flu gained widespread media
attention in 2012, which then increased the use of the same search terms that
had better predictive value before. See Nick Bilton, Disruption, Data Without
Context Tells a Misleading Story, N.Y. Times (Feb. 23, 2013),
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/02/24/disruptions-google-flu-trends-shows-pro
blems-of-big-data-without-context/; Declan Butler, When Google Got Flu Wrong,
494 Nature 155, 155-56 (2013), available at
http://www.nature.com/news/when-google-got-flu-wrong-1.12413.





n47.  Cf. Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 59 ("The correlations
show what, not why, but ... knowing what is often good enough.") (emphasis in
original).





n48.  See Jennifer Bachner, Predictive Policing: Preventing Crime with Data and
Analytics 14 (2013), available at
http://www.businessofgovernment.org/sites/default/files/
Predictive%20Policing.pdf ("The fundamental notion underlying the theory and
practice of predictive policing is that we can make probabilistic inferences
about future criminal activity based on existing data.").





n49.  See id. at 7 (observing that "quantitative crime analysis spans
centuries").





n50.  See id. at 16.





n51.  See Walter L. Perry et al., Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime
Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations 2 (2013) ("The use of statistical and
geospatial analyses to forecast crime levels has been around for decades.");
Pearsall, supra note 8, at 18 (citing one police chief's skepticism that
predictive policing is a break from older trends in intelligence based
policing).





n52.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 6, 9 (noting that "predictive policing is
viewed as one pillar of intelligence-led policing").





n53.  Bratton himself chronicled his tenure as Commissioner in his memoir The
Turnaround. See William Bratton with Peter Knobler, The Turnaround: How
America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic (1998).





n54.  There are numerous accounts of the perceived innovation and success of the
N.Y.P.D. during the 1990s. See, e.g., Vincent E. Henry, The CompStat Paradigm:
Management Accountability in Policing, Business and the Public Sector 17-18
(2003) (describing CompStat meetings as "intensive monthly performance
evaluations for every commander of practically every operational unit in the
agency"); Eli B. Silverman, NYPD Battles Crime: Innovative Strategies in
Policing 97-124 (1999) (describing development of CompStat meetings). In fact,
some credit Bratton for thinking of a predictive policing model. See Perry et
al., supra note 51, at 4.





n55.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 9 (noting CompStat "has been adopted by
nearly every law enforcement agency in the country").





n56. " Broken windows" policing generally refers to a style of policing that
focuses on minor offense enforcement on the assumption that such signs of
disorder, if left unchecked, will lead to more serious crimes. See James Q.
Wilson & George L. Kelling, Broken Windows: The Police and Neighborhood Safety,
Atlantic Monthly, Mar. 1982, at 29, available at
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/304465/.





n57.  More recently, however, the credit given to the use of CompStat by the
N.Y.P.D. has been criticized. See, e.g., David F. Greenberg, Studying New York
City's Crime Decline: Methodological Issues, 31 Just. Q. 154, 182 (2013)
(concluding that there is an "absence of evidence pointing to large crime
prevention effects in New York from [tactics including] CompStat ... ."). And
the stop and frisk policies of the N.Y.P.D. were eventually held to be
unconstitutional. See Floyd v. City of New York, No. 08 Civ. 1034(SAS), 2013 WL
4046209 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 12, 2013).





n58.  Of course, even knowing about these high crime areas might suggest future
criminal activity taking place in the same place, but the identification of
these areas does not involve prediction specifically. See Andrew Guthrie
Ferguson, Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion, 62 Emory L.J. 259, 274
(2012).





n59.  See, e.g., Perry et al., supra note 51, at 2 ("Criminals tend to operate
in their comfort zone. That is, they tend to commit the type of crimes that they
have committed successfully in the past, generally close to the same time and
location.").





n60.  Anthony A. Braga et al., The Relevance of Micro Places to Citywide Robbery
Trends: A Longitudinal Analysis of Robbery Incidents at Street Corners and Block
Faces in Boston, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 7, 10 (2011) (citing David L.
Weisburd et al., Trajectories of Crime at Places: A Longitudinal Study of Street
Segments in the City of Seattle, 42 Criminology 283 (2004)).





n61.  See, e.g., Martin Kaste, Can Software That Predicts Crime Pass
Constitutional Muster?, NPR (July 26, 2013, 4:55 PM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/07/26/205835674/can-software-that-predicts-crime-pass-co
nstitutional-muster (noting that the software creator "wanted to see if
computers could model future crime the same way they model earthquake
aftershocks. Turns out they can."). The software, designed by mathematicians and
social scientists at UCLA, Santa Clara University, and U.C. Irvine, is called
PredPol and is marketed to police departments. See Policing Meets Big Data,
Predpol, http://www.predpol.com/about/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n62.  See Zach Friend, Predictive Policing: Using Technology to Reduce Crime,
FBI Law Enforcement Bull. (Apr. 9, 2013),
http://www.fbi.gov/stats-services/publications/law-enforcement-bulletin/2013/Apr
il/predictive-policing-using-technology-to- reduce-crime.





n63.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 25.





n64.  See id. at 26. At least one investigative article has raised doubts,
however, as to whether PredPol actually delivers on its claims about reducing
crime. See Darwin Bond-Graham & Ali Winston, All Tomorrow's Crimes: The Future
of Policing Looks a Lot Like Good Branding, S.F. Weekly (Oct. 30, 2013),
http://www.sfweekly.com/2013-10-30/news/predpol-sfpd-predictive-policing
-compstat-lapd/full/ (suggesting that PredPol's creators have been "most
successful [with] its marketing algorithms").





n65.  See, e.g., David Talbot, L.A. Cops Embrace Crime-Predicting Algorithm, MIT
Tech. Rev. (July 2, 2012),
http://www.technologyreview.com/news/428354/la-cops-embrace-crime-predicting-alg
orithm/ (describing successful use of Predpol software in Foothill precinct of
Los Angeles); Sengupta, supra note 5 (describing Seattle Police Department's use
of PredPol software for property crimes).





n66.  Looking Ahead, Not in the Rear View Mirror, Predpol,
http://www.predpol.com/technology/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n67.  See, e.g., Leslie W. Kennedy et al., Risk Clusters, Hotspots, and Spatial
Intelligence: Risk Terrain Modeling as an Algorithm for Police Resource
Allocations, 27 J. Quantitative Criminology 339, 342-43 (2011).





n68.  See id. at 343.





n69.  Jeffrey S. Paul & Thomas M. Joiner, Integration of Centralized
Intelligence with Geographic Information Systems: A Countywide Initiative,
Geography & Pub. Safety, Oct. 2011, at 5, 7.





n70.  See id. at 7 (noting that since 2007, when the county created an
intelligence crime task force, "the total crime index in the county has
decreased by 11%, violent crime by 21%, and property crime by 7%").





n71.  IBM offers, for instance, a social media analytics tool that police
departments can use to monitor Facebook and Twitter activity. See Somini
Sengupta, Privacy Fears Grow as Cities Increase Surveillance, N.Y. Times (Oct.
13, 2013), http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/14/
technology/privacy-fears-as-surveillance-grows-in-cities.html.





n72.  Social network analysis should not be confused with police surveillance
and infiltration of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, which have
also proven to be valuable investigative tools.





n73.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 22-23.





n74.  See Philip Ball, Unmasking Organised Crime Networks with Data, BBC (July
9, 2013),
http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20130709-unmask-crime-networks-with-data/1.





n75.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 23.





n76.  Aaron Lester, Police Clicking into Crimes Using New Software, Boston Globe
(Mar. 18, 2013),
http://www.bostonglobe.com/business/2013/03/17/police-intelligence-one-click-awa
y/ DzzDbrwdiNkjNMA1159ybM/"story.html (describing provisional use of new Nucleik
software within Springfield, Massachusetts gang unit).





n77.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 23.





n78.  See Lester, supra note 76.





n79.  See Ball, supra note 74.





n80.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 22-24.





n81.  See generally id.





n82.  See Ball, supra note 74.





n83.  Cf. Jack M. Balkin, The Constitution in the National Surveillance State,
93 Minn. L. Rev. 1, 3 (2008) ("Government's increasing use of surveillance and
data mining is a predictable result of accelerating developments in information
technology.").





n84.  Joseph Goldstein, Weekly Police Briefing Offers Snapshot of Department and
Its Leader, N.Y. Times (Feb. 10, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/11/nyregion/weekly-briefing-provides-lengthy-snap
shot-of-kelly-and-nypd.html.





n85.  Matt Sledge, NYPD License Plate Readers Will Be Able to Track Every Car
Entering Manhattan, Huffington Post (Mar. 13, 2013, 5:08 PM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/
2013/03/13/nypd-license-plate-readers_n_2869627.html.





n86.  Cara Buckley, New York Plans Surveillance Veil for Downtown, N.Y. Times
(July 9, 2007), http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/09/nyregion/09ring.html; Mark
Duell, The Extraordinary "Ring of Steel' Around Ground Zero: NYPD Steps Up Dirty
Bomb Threat Protection with $ 200M Project, Daily Mail (July 29, 2011),
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2020266/NYPD-steps-dirty-bomb-radiation-
threat-protection-200m-Manhattan- project.html.





n87.  Al Baker, Camera Scans of Car Plates Are Reshaping Police Inquiries, N.Y.
Times (Apr. 11, 2011),
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/04/12/nyregion/12plates.html?pagewa nted=all&_r=0
(observing that in 2011, the N.Y.P.D. had 238 license plate readers, 130 of them
mobile). In March 2013, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly announced plans to
install license plate readers in every lane of traffic that serve as exists and
entrances to Manhattan, all of which would be linked to the domain awareness
system. See Sledge, supra note 85.





n88.  Two thousand belt-mounted mobile radiation detectors are carried by
N.Y.P.D. officers. See Duell, supra note 86. The N.Y.P.D. also plans to use very
sensitive radiation scanners to detect the presence of concealed weapons on
individuals in high crime areas. See Slate V Staff, NYPD Plans Public Radiation
Scanners to Detect Guns, Slate (Jan. 24, 2013), http://www.slate.com/blogs/
trending/2013/01/24/nypd_radiation_scanners_ gun_detectors_to_be_set_up
_in_public_spaces.html.





n89.  See Sledge, supra note 85.





n90.  Duell, supra note 86.





n91.  Id.





n92.  See, e.g., Press Release, Mayor Bloomberg, Police Commissioner Kelly and
Microsoft Unveil New, State-of-the-Art Law Enforcement Technology That
Aggregates and Analyzes Existing Public Safety Data in Real Time to Provide a
Comprehensive View of Potential Threats and Criminal Activity (Aug. 8, 2012),
available at http://www.nyc.gov/portal/site/nycgov/
menuitem.c0935b9a57bb4ef3daf2f1c701c789a0/index.jsp?pageID=mayo
r_press_release&catID=1194&doc_nam
e=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nyc.gov%2Fhtml%2Fom%2Fhtml%2F2012b%2Fpr291-12.html&cc=unused1
978&rc=1194&ndi=1.





n93.  Rocco Paranscandola & Tina Moore, NYPD Unveils New $ 40 Million Super
Computer System that Uses Data from Network of Cameras, License Plate Readers
and Crime Reports, N.Y. Daily News (Aug. 8, 2012, 8:50 PM),
http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/nypd-unveils-new-40-million-super-computer-s
ystem-data-network-
cameras-license-plate-readers-crime-reports-article-1.1132135.





n94.  See Michael Schwirtz, After Boston Bombings, New York Police Plan Tight
Security at Marathon, N.Y. Times (Nov. 1, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/02/sports/video-surveillance-to-be-a-key-componen
t-of-marathon- security.html?_r=0.





n95.  Forbes named Oakland the third most dangerous city in America in 2012 with
a population between 100,000 and 499,000. See The 10 Most Dangerous U.S. Cities,
Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/pictures/mlj45jggj/3-oakland/ (last visited Feb.
17, 2014) (stating that Oakland's violent crime rate is "1,683 per 100,000
residents").





n96.  The project was initially sought by the Port of Oakland, but expanded to
include the city of Oakland itself. See Steven Tavares, Big Brother in Oakland?
There Might Be an App Coming For That, EBCitizen (July 10, 2013),
http://www.ebcitizen.com/2013/07/big-brother-in-oakland-there-might-be.html?utm_
source=feedburner&utm_medium=email &utm_campaign=Feed%3A+
EastbaycitizenBreakingNewsPoliticsLife+%28EastBayCitizen+%7C+Br
eaking+News+Politics+Life%29.





n97.  Sengupta, supra note 71.





n98.  Ali Winston, Oakland Surveillance Center Raises Concerns, SFGate (July 17,
2013, 9:46 PM),
http://www.sfgate.com/crime/article/Oakland-surveillance-center-raises-concerns-
4671708.php. In February 2014, however, Oakland officials delayed voting on a
contract to build its DAS after local residents raised concerns about privacy.
See Associated Press, Oakland Delays Vote on Surveillance System, Wash. Times
(Feb. 19, 2014), http://www.washingtontimes.com/
news/2014/feb/19/oakland-delays-vote-on-surveillance-system/.





n99.  See CODIS - NDIS Statistics, FBI,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/lab/biometric-analysis/codis/ ndis-statistics (last
visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n100.  See Solomon Moore, F.B.I. and States Vastly Expand DNA Databases, N.Y.
Times (Apr. 18, 2009), http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/19/us/19DNA.html (noting
that CODIS is "the largest [database] in the world"). The U.K., however, has the
distinction of having the largest portion of its population - about ten percent
- in its DNA database. See, e.g., Jill Lawless, Spread of DNA Databases Sparks
Ethical Concerns, Associated Press (July 12, 2013, 8:50 AM),
http://bigstory.ap.org/article/spread-dna-databases-sparks-ethical-concerns.





n101.  Although CODIS specifically refers to the software that links DNA
databases around the country for information sharing purposes, it is also used
generically as a term to describe the American DNA database system more
generally. See Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the CODIS Program and the
National DNA Index System, FBI,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/lab/biometric-analysis/codis/codis-and-ndis-fact-she
et (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n102.  See, e.g., id. (describing how CODIS would be used in a hypothetical
sexual assault case). CODIS permits states and the federal government to upload
and compare DNA profiles on the National DNA Index System (NDIS). See id. While
state laws specify the types of profiles that can be included in state
databases, federal law determines which DNA profiles can be stored and shared at
the national level. See 42 U.S.C. § 14132(a) (2006). Many resources provide
helpful explanatory information on DNA and how it is used in criminal
investigations. E.g., Sheldon Krimsky & Tania Simoncelli, Genetic Justice: DNA
Data Banks, Criminal Investigations, and Civil Liberties 3-27 (2010); DNA
Evidence Basics, Nat'l Inst. Just. (Aug. 9, 2012),
http://www.nij.gov/topics/forensics/evidence/dna/basics/pages/w elcome.aspx.





n103.  See Nathan James, Cong. Research Serv., R41800, DNA Testing in Criminal
Justice: Background, Current Law, Grants, and Issues 7 (2012).





n104.  See id.





n105.  New York DNA Database: Governor Cuomo Signs "All Crimes' DNA Testing Into
Law, Huffington post (Mar. 3, 2012, 10:22 AM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/20/new-york-dna-database-governor-cuomo-al
l-crimes-dna- testing_n_1366624.html.





n106.  See id. (noting minor exemption "for those convicted of possession of a
small amount of marijuana as long as they have no prior convictions").





n107.  See Julie Samuels et al., Collecting DNA From Arrestees: Implementation
Lessons, Nat'l Inst. Just. J., June 2012, at 18, 19, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/238484.pdf.





n108.  See DNA Arrestee Laws, Nat'l Conference of St. Legislatures,
http://www.ncsl.org/ research/civil-and-criminal-justice/dna-arrestee-laws.aspx
(last visited Feb. 17, 2014) (reporting that in May 2013, Nevada became the most
recent state to require DNA samples from all felony arrestees).





n109. __ U.S.__, 133 S. Ct. 1958 (2013).





n110.  Id. at 1980.





n111.  The Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act provides federal funding for
those states that wish to establish arrestee DNA collection programs. See Katie
Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-253, § 3, 126 Stat.
2407 (2013). For further commentary on the decision, see Elizabeth E. Joh,
Maryland v. King: Policing and Genetic Privacy, 11 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 281
(2013).





n112.  The thirteen STR markers refer to the thirteen places on the human
chromosome where there is high variability. These identification markers provide
law enforcement with a unique identifier for everyone who provides a DNA sample.
See The FBI and DNA, FBI (Nov. 28, 2011),
http://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/2011/november/dna_112811.





n113.  See, e.g., Erin Murphy, Relative Doubt: Familial Searches of DNA
Databases, 109 Mich. L. Rev. 291, 297-300 (2010) (describing mechanics of
familial searches). How those genetically related to the sought after offender
turn up depends on a number of factors, including whether a jurisdiction
intentionally searches the database for partial matches or whether such matches
turn up as the result of a search because the parameters of the search permitted
less than an identical match between the sample and the DNA profile. See id. at
299.





n114.  Id. at 297-98.





n115.  See id. at 296. In 2008, California became the first state to formally
authorize intentional partial matches, or "familial" searches. Id. at 293.





n116.  Matching STRs on the Y chromosomes, in addition to a partial match on the
CODIS loci, can show how closely related two men are through their male
ancestors. This Y-STR typing can show whether two men share the same genetic
father or paternal grandfather. See, e.g., Michael Chamberlain, Familial DNA
Searching: A Proponent's Perspective, Crim. Just., Spring 2012, at 18, available
at http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/cr iminal_justice_
magazine/sp12_dna_search_proponents.authch eckdam.pdf (explaining basics of
California familial match policy).





n117.  See supra Part I.





n118.  See, e.g., Murphy, supra note 113, at 304 ("Familial searches should be
forbidden because they embody the very presumptions that our constitutional and
evidentiary rules have long endeavored to counteract: guilt by association,
racial discrimination, propensity, and even biological determinism. They are
akin to adopting a policy to collect and store the DNA of otherwise
database-ineligible persons, solely because they share a blood relation with a
convicted person ... ."); Sonia M. Suter, All in the Family: Privacy and DNA
Familial Searching, 23 Harv. J.L. & Tech. 309, 368-70 (2010).





n119.  See, e.g., David Lazer & Viktor Mayer-Schonberger, Statutory Frameworks
for Regulating Information Flows: Drawing Lessons for the DNA Data Banks from
Other Government Data Systems, 34 J.L. Med. & Ethics 366, 372 (2006).





n120.  See, e.g., Moore, supra note 100 (describing CODIS profile as "numerical
sequence").





n121.  See, e.g., Maryland v. King, __U.S.__, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1979 (2013)
(observing that "the CODIS loci come from noncoding parts of the DNA that do not
reveal the genetic traits of the arrestee").





n122.  See, e.g., Suter, supra note 118, at 331 ("Courts often minimize or fail
to address the fact that the collection of DNA samples involves two privacy
intrusions: the actual collection of biological samples and the retention of
samples that contain one's genetic information.").





n123.  Scholars and judges have expressed a wide range of opinions on whether
privacy interests are truly threatened by DNA samples held by the government.
Compare N. Van Camp & K. Dierickx, The Retention of Forensic DNA Samples: A
Socio-Ethical Evaluation of Current Practices in the EU, 34 J. Med. Ethics 606,
606 (2008), and Tania Simoncelli & Barry Steinhardt, California's Proposition
69: A Dangerous Precedent for Criminal DNA Databases, 33 J.L. Med. & Ethics 279,
284 (2005) ("While law enforcement authorities would like us to believe that the
samples will never be used for anything besides catching criminals, an unlimited
span of improper uses remain plausible so long as those samples are retained."),
and Suter, supra note 118, at 335 ("We should be wary of [sample retention]
given its substantial threat to privacy and civil liberties."), with David H.
Kaye, A Fourth Amendment Theory for Arrestee DNA and Other Biometric Databases,
15 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 1095, 1155-58 (2013) (expressing extreme skepticism that
DNA samples will ever be used beyond biometric identification).





n124.  Lazer & Mayer-Schonberger, supra note 119, at 372 (emphasis added); see
also Lawless, supra note 100 (quoting one supporter of genetic databases as
acknowledging "there is an argument to be made that because that biological
sample exists, the government could go back and do other things with it that are
not authorized by the law").





n125.  These legal barriers, however, do not apply to the emerging issue of
"offline" or "rogue" DNA databases that are being established by local law
enforcement agencies that have no intention of sharing the information with
CODIS. See, e.g., Joseph Goldstein, Police Agencies Are Assembling Records of
DNA, N.Y. Times, June 13, 2013, at A1 ("These local databases operate under
their own rules, providing the police much more leeway than state and federal
regulations.").





n126.  See, e.g., Sarah B. Berson, Debating DNA Collection, Nat'l Inst. Just.
J., Nov. 2009, at 9, 11, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/228383.pdf ("State laws ... vary with regard
to how samples may be used beyond law enforcement and quality control
purposes.").





n127.  See 42 U.S.C. § 14132(b)(3) (2006). Some have suggested, however, that a
"criminal justice purpose" could be broadly construed to permit law enforcement
agencies to analyze samples for a variety of purposes beyond simple matches to
crime scene evidence. See, e.g., Suter, supra note 118, at 336.





n128.  See, e.g., James, supra note 103, at 5; Mark A. Rothstein & Meghan K.
Talbott, The Expanding Use of DNA in Law Enforcement: What Role for Privacy?, 34
J.L. Med. & Ethics 153, 158 (2006) ("There is no national policy on sample
retention, but in almost every state the samples are retained indefinitely.").
Many of these observations have relied upon a 2005 study by the American Society
of Law, Medicine and Ethics. See Seth Axelrad, Am. Soc'y of L., Med. & Ethics,
Survey of State DNA Database Statutes, http://www.aslme.org/dna_04/grid/
guide.pdf (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n129.  M. Dawn Herkenham, Retention of Offender DNA Samples Necessary to Ensure
and Monitor Quality of Forensic DNA Efforts: Appropriate Safeguards Exist to
Protect the DNA Samples from Misuse, 34 J.L. Med. & Ethics 380, 381-82 (2006)
(Herkenham was the chief of the FBI unit responsible for implementing the NDIS);
see also John M. Butler, Fundamentals of Forensic DNA Typing 280-81 (2009)
(noting that samples should be preserved for quality control and for "technology
advancements in the future" regarding new genetic markers or assays).





n130.  In the years since the human genome was first sequenced, the cost of
sequencing has fallen dramatically, from nearly $ 100 million in 2001 to less
than $ 6,000 in 2013. The National Human Genome Research Institute tracks the
costs of genome sequencing. See K.A. Wetterstrand, DNA Sequencing Costs: Data
from the NHGRI Genome Sequencing Program (GSP), Nat'l Human Genome Res. Inst.,
http://www.genome.gov/sequencingcosts/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n131.  See, e.g., Phil Reilly, Legal and Public Policy Issues in DNA Forensics,
2 Nature Reviews Genetics 313, 317 (2001) (suggesting establishment of "a
permanent commission to oversee [DNA databanks], which could review and monitor
all requests to use samples for purposes other than forensic identification").





n132.  See, e.g., Perry et al., supra note 51, at 115-16 ("Although much of news
coverage promotes the meme that predictive policing is a crystal ball, these
algorithms simply predict risks.").





n133.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 20-21 (1968).





n134.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) ("Reasonable suspicion ... is
dependent upon both the content of information possessed by police and its
degree of reliability. Both factors - quantity and quality - are considered in
the "totality of the circumstances - the whole picture' that must be taken into
account when evaluating whether there is reasonable suspicion." (citation
omitted)).





n135.  Cf. United States v. Ventresca, 380 U.S. 102, 111 (1965) ("Observations
of fellow officers of the Government engaged in a common investigation are
plainly a reliable basis for a warrant applied for by one of their number.").





n136.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 244-46 (1983).





n137.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000).





n138.  See, e.g., Gates, 462 U.S. at 245-46 (noting that anonymous tip
"contained a range of details relating ... to future actions of third parties
ordinarily not easily predicted"); Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 271 (2000)
(noting that the tip in the case "provided no predictive information and
therefore left the police without means to test the informant's knowledge or
credibility"); 2 Wayne R. LaFave, Search & Seizure § 3.3f (5th ed. 2012) ("It
seems wise in light of subsequent events to read Gates to mean that
corroboration of part of an anonymous informant's information will constitute a
sufficient substitute for directly-established veracity and basis of knowledge
only if the corroborated events are in and of themselves quite suspicious.").





n139.  Professor Andrew Ferguson was among the first to recognize the Fourth
Amendment challenges raised by the adoption of predictive policing programs. See
Ferguson, supra note 58, at 305-12 (discussing these analogies).





n140.  See id. at 309 (citing example).





n141.  Because such programs only make predictions about areas where crime is
likely to happen, it would seem more difficult to justify probable cause in the
predictive policing analysis, although certainly many stops can ripen into full
blown arrests once more information about the suspect is made known to the
police during the course of a stop.





n142.  See Ferguson, supra note 58, at 306-07.





n143.  See id. at 310 (observing that "a common theme in the Fourth Amendment"
analysis of reasonable suspicion is "corroboration of individual actions").





n144.  While the Court in Illinois v. Gates adopted a totality of the
circumstances tests for probable cause, it nevertheless reaffirmed that these
factors continued to be "all highly relevant" and "should be understood [to]
illuminate the commonsense, practical question" of probable cause. See 462 U.S.
213, 230 (1983). The same can be said of the reasonable suspicion standard as
well. See Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) ("Reasonable suspicion is a
less demanding standard than probable cause not only in the sense that
reasonable suspicion can be established with information that is different in
quantity or content than that required to establish probable cause, but also in
the sense that reasonable suspicion can arise from information that is less
reliable than that required to show probable cause.").





n145.  Cf. Ferguson, supra note 58, at 307 (noting that "an objective,
well-functioning computer program seems more reliable than your typical police
informant").





n146.  See, e.g., United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981) ("[In an
investigative detention] officers must have a particularized and objective basis
for suspecting the particular person stopped of criminal activity.").





n147.  The tip that led to the investigation of Lance and Sue Gates was
allegedly given by Sue Gates's hairdresser, annoyed with Sue's boasting. Thomas
Y. Davies, The Supreme Court Giveth and the Supreme Court Taketh Away: The
Century of Fourth Amendment "Search and Seizure' Doctrine, 100 J. Crim. L. &
Criminology 933, 1005 n.383 (2010). On the problems raised by the "informant
institution," see generally Alexandra Natapoff, Snitching: The Institutional and
Communal Consequences, 73 U. Cin. L. Rev. 645 (2004).





n148.  See, e.g., Andrew Guthrie Ferguson & Damien Bernache, The "High-Crime
Area" Question: Requiring Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth
Amendment Reasonable Suspicion Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1607 (2008)
("The majority of jurisdictions ... have relied on an officer's testimony that
an area is a "high-crime area' without much analysis as to the basis of that
conclusion.").





n149.  I have argued elsewhere that an automated traffic enforcement system made
possible by a federal intelligent highway initiative could improve fairness and
reduce or eliminate racial profiling in traffic stops. See Elizabeth E. Joh,
Discretionless Policing: Technology and the Fourth Amendment, 95 Calif. L. Rev.
199 (2007).





n150.  Not only are there decisions about which model to use, each model itself
involves discretionary judgments about the type and amount of data to use, as
well as how to display it. See, e.g., Bachner, supra note 48, at 21 ("Just as
with the other clustering methods, the final map is sensitive to analyst
judgment.").





n151.  Measures of crime based on arrest rates - and particularly arrests in
minor offenses - are problematic because they represent the greatest exercise of
police discretion. See Wayne A. Logan, Policing Identity, 92 B.U. L. Rev. 1561,
1590 (2012). As a result, the resulting data may often reflect racial biases in
policing. See, e.g., Simon A. Cole, Fingerprint Identification and the Criminal
Justice System: Historical Lessons for the DNA Debate, in DNA and the Criminal
Justice System: The Technology of Justice 63, 82 (David Lazer ed., 2004)
(observing that criminal histories "appear to be pure, objective information,
when in fact they may reflect the prejudices of police or judicial
practitioners").





n152.  See, e.g., Predictive Policing: Don't Even Think About It, Economist
(July 20, 2013),
http://www.economist.com/news/briefing/21582042-it-getting-easier-foresee-wrongd
oing-and-spot-likely-wrongdoers-dont-even- think-about-it ("It matters ...
whether software crunches reports of crimes or arrests; if the latter, police
activity risks creating a vicious circle.").





n153.  The predictive software may drive the officer to use personal observation
to confirm the potentially suspicious behavior rather than independently assess
whether it is truly suspicious. Cf. Andrew E. Taslitz, Police Are People Too:
Cognitive Obstacles to, and Opportunities for, Police Getting the Individualized
Suspicion Judgment Right, 8 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 7, 29-30 (2010) (discussing
"continuum model" in which observer uses further assessment to confirm initial
judgments rather than challenging them).





n154.  A court may see the issue characterized as a kind of reliable tip -
albeit from a computer - that requires less police corroboration precisely
because of its reliability. See, e.g., Ferguson, supra note 58, at 308 (making
this observation).





n155.  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 361 (1967) (Harlan, J., concurring).





n156.  In fact, the problems of a mass surveillance system like the total domain
awareness program were anticipated years before such programs actually existed.
See, e.g., Robert H. Thornburg, Comment, Face Recognition Technology: The
Potential Orwellian Implications and Constitutionality of Current Uses Under the
Fourth Amendment, 20 J. Marshall J. Computer & Info. L. 321, 343 (2002) (noting
in 2002 that "a networked system could identify an individual in one location on
a specific date, and identify that same person at a different location
afterwards").





n157.  See, e.g., United States v. Dionisio, 410 U.S. 1, 14 (1973) ("The
physical characteristics of a person's voice, its tone and manner, as opposed to
the content of a specific conversation, are constantly exposed to the public...
. No person can have a reasonable expectation that others will not know the
sound of his voice, any more than he can reasonably expect that his face will be
a mystery to the world."); Davis v. Mississippi, 394 U.S. 721, 727 (1969)
("Fingerprinting involves none of the probing into an individual's private life
and thoughts that marks an interrogation or search."). Christopher Slobogin has
convincingly argued, however, that a right to anonymity - even in public -
should be protected by the Fourth Amendment. See Christopher Slobogin, Public
Privacy: Camera Surveillance of Public Places and the Right to Anonymity, 72
Miss. L.J. 213 (2002).





n158.  E.g., United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276, 285 (1983).





n159.  Id.





n160.  Id. ("A police car following [the defendant] at a distance throughout his
journey could have observed him leaving the public highway and arriving at the
cabin owned by respondent, with the drum of chloroform still in the car.").





n161.  See, e.g., People v. Weaver, 909 N.E.2d 1195, 1199 (N.Y. 2009) ("The
potential for a similar capture [to GPS technology] of information or "seeing'
by law enforcement would require, at a minimum, millions of additional police
officers and cameras on every street lamp.").





n162.  Certainly a number of lower court judges have expressed these concerns as
well.





n163. __ U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012).





n164.  Id. at 948.





n165.  See id. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring); id. at 964 (Alito, J.,
concurring in judgment).





n166.  The "mosaic theory" is generally attributed to the decision in United
States v. Maynard, 615 F.3d 544, 562 (D.C. Cir. 2010) ("Prolonged surveillance
reveals types of information not revealed by short-term surveillance, such as
what a person does repeatedly, what he does not do, and what he does ensemble.
These types of information can each reveal more about a person than does any
individual trip viewed in isolation."). See, e.g., Orin S. Kerr, The Mosaic
Theory of the Fourth Amendment, 111 Mich. L. Rev. 311, 326 (2012) ("Five
justices wrote or joined opinions that ... suggest that a majority of the Court
is ready to embrace some form of the D.C. Circuit's mosaic theory.").





n167.  United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276, 283-85 (1983).





n168.  See, e.g., Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 19 n.16 (1968) ("Obviously, not all
personal intercourse between policemen and citizens involves "seizures' of
persons. Only when the officer, by means of physical force or show of authority,
has in some way restrained the liberty of a citizen may we conclude that a
"seizure' has occurred.").





n169.  Michigan v. Chesternut, 486 U.S. 567, 576 (1988) ("The police [are] not
required to have "a particularized and objective basis for suspecting
[respondent] of criminal activity,' in order to pursue him." (quoting United
States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981))); cf. Oyler v. Boles, 368 U.S.
448, 456 (1962) ("The conscious exercise of some selectivity in [law]
enforcement is not in itself a federal constitutional violation.").





n170.  Stephen Rushin, The Judicial Response to Mass Police Surveillance, 2011
U. Ill. J.L. Tech. & Pol'y 281, 286.





n171.  See 1 LaFave, supra note 138, § 2.7(g) (raising similar concerns).





n172.  See United States v. Jones, __U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945, 956 (2012)
(Sotomayor, J., concurring) ("Awareness that the Government may be watching
chills associational and expressive freedoms.").





n173.  See, e.g., id. at 963 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) ("In the
pre-computer age, the greatest protections of privacy were neither
constitutional nor statutory, but practical. Traditional surveillance for any
extended period of time was difficult and costly and therefore rarely
undertaken.").





n174.  See Scott Shane, Data Storage Could Expand Reach of Surveillance, N.Y.
Times (Aug. 14, 2012),
http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/advances-in-data-storage-have-impl
ications-for-government- surveillance/?_php=true&_type=blogs&_r=0.





n175.  See id.





n176.  See id.





n177.  See Villasenor, supra note 22, at 1. Wayne Logan has persuasively argued
that such a capacity has exposed the need to distinguish between identity
evidence used strictly for identity verification and that used for forensic
investigation. See Logan, supra note 151, at 1581-93.





n178.  On the various ways in which people might protest the growing
surveillance capacities of the government, see Elizabeth E. Joh, Privacy
Protests: Surveillance Evasion and Fourth Amendment Suspicion, 55 Ariz. L. Rev.
997 (2013); see also Villasenor, supra note 22, at 7 (observing that the use of
encryption, for instance, might attract greater government attention).





n179.  Kevin Bankston and Ashkan Soltani have demonstrated the enormous
differences in cost between traditional and new surveillance methods. They
estimate that the cost of a using a traditional covert five police car
surveillance operation over 28 days - the days the government followed Antoine
Jones - is "nearly 775 times more expensive than the cost of using GPS." Kevin
S. Bankston & Ashkan Soltani, Tiny Constables and the Cost of Surveillance:
Making Cents out of United States v. Jones, 123 Yale L.J. Online 334, 335
(2014), http://yalelawjournal.org/2014/1/9/ bankston-soltani.html.





n180.  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 351 (1967) ("What a person knowingly
exposes to the public, even in his own home or office, is not a subject of
Fourth Amendment protection.").





n181.  See supra text accompanying notes 43-47.





n182.  See supra text accompanying notes 43-47.





n183.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 104 ("In the big-data
age, data is like a magical diamond mine that keeps on giving long after its
principal value has been tapped.").





n184.  See, e.g., Russell D. Covey, Pervasive Surveillance and the Future of the
Fourth Amendment, 80 Miss. L.J. 1289, 1294-95 (2011) ("Fourth Amendment law ...
has proved singularly inept at dealing with the technological revolution... .
[This is because it] has purported to regulate and control the non-consensual
governmental acquisition of information from individuals in the name of privacy
protection.").





n185.  See Erin Murphy, Back to the Future: The Curious Case of United States v.
Jones, 10 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 325, 330-31 (2012) ("Current Fourth Amendment law
emphasizes acquisition: how did the police acquire the DNA sample or financial
record or biometric image? It cares little for what happens next - to what use
that information is put.").





n186.  Thus in a case from the 1990s, the New York Court of Appeals rejected a
Fourth Amendment challenge to the use of a DNA analysis to connect a defendant
to a rape, although the warrant for the blood sample was approved with regard to
a different case. People v. King, 663 N.Y.S.2d 610, 614 (N.Y. App. Div. 1997)
("It is also clear that once a person's blood sample has been obtained lawfully,
he can no longer assert either privacy claims or unreasonable search and seizure
arguments with respect to the use of that sample. Privacy concerns are no longer
relevant once the sample has already lawfully been removed from the body, and
the scientific analysis of a sample does not involve any further search and
seizure of a defendant's person.").





n187.  See, e.g., State v. Hauge, 79 P.3d 131, 144 (Haw. 2003) ("The appellate
courts of several states have ruled that expectations of privacy in lawfully
obtained blood samples ... are not objectively reasonable by "society's'
standards. Specifically, a number of jurisdictions have held on analogous facts
that once a blood sample and DNA profile is lawfully procured from a defendant,
no privacy interest persists in either the sample or the profile."); State v.
Emerson, 981 N.E.2d 787, 792-93 (Ohio 2012) (rejecting defendant's claims of
privacy in subsequent uses of DNA profile); Smith v. State, 734 N.E.2d 706, 710
(Ind. Ct. App. 2000) ("Law enforcement agencies may retain validly obtained DNA
samples for use in subsequent unrelated criminal investigations ... ."), aff'd,
744 N.E.2d 437 (Ind. 2001).





n188.  Kelly Lowenberg argues that subsequent searches of DNA samples that yield
new information should require further government justification and a
consideration of the reasonableness of that additional search. In the familial
search context, Lowenberg suggests that Y-STR typing of a DNA sample of a
convicted offender would be permissible without a warrant, while the same
analysis conducted on another type of sample (e.g. a volunteer sample) would
not. See Kelly Lowenberg, Applying the Fourth Amendment When DNA Collected for
One Purpose is Tested for Another, 79 U. Cin. L. Rev. 1289, 1319-23 (2011).





n189.  Cf. Logan, supra note 151, at 1586 (distinguishing evidence showing
"one's identity (who one is), [from the] entirely different question ...
presented by identifying information (revealing what one might have done or
perhaps will do") (emphasis in original) (footnote omitted)).





n190.  See Covey, supra note 184, at 1302.





n191.  Harold J. Krent, Of Diaries and Data Banks: Use Restrictions Under the
Fourth Amendment, 74 Tex. L. Rev. 49, 60-63 (1995).





n192.  See id. at 80-81.





n193. __ U.S.__, 133 S. Ct. 1958 (2013).





n194.  Id. at 1980.





n195.  Id. at 1979.





n196.  Id. at 1980. Justice Scalia's dissent in King was much less sanguine
about the threats to privacy in the case, and strongly disputed that the
government's interest in the case could be justified as one of "identification."
See id. at 1988 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (noting "it may one day be possible to
design a program that uses DNA for a purpose other than crime-solving").





n197.  Cf. United States v. Jones, __U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945, 964 (2012) (Alito,
J., concurring in judgment) ("A legislative body is well situated to gauge
changing public attitudes, to draw detailed lines, and to balance privacy and
public safety in a comprehensive way.").





n198.  In the King case, the majority comfortably found that arrestee DNA
profiles could be used to link the defendant to a crime unrelated to the crime
of arrest, King, 133 S. Ct. at 1965, 1970-80, a definition of "identification"
to which Justice Scalia dissented, dramatically. See id. at 1982-90 (Scalia, J.,
dissenting). For further discussion of this issue, see Joh, supra note 111.





n199.  See Sengupta, supra note 5. Indeed, to the extent that these companies
may market both to public police departments and private corporations interested
in reducing crime privately, special attention must be paid to claims of public
benefit. For further discussion on how private interests can distort public
police goals, see Elizabeth E. Joh, The Forgotten Threat: Private Policing and
the State, 13 Ind. J. Global Legal Stud. 357, 384-88 (2006).





n200.  See, e.g., Bond-Graham & Winston, supra note 64 (noting that PredPol
incorporated in January 2012 and "has emerged early to dominate the [predictive
policing] market").





n201.  The N.Y.P.D. is said to receive thirty percent of gross revenues from
sales of the system to other departments. Sam Roberts, Police Surveillance May
Earn Money for City, N.Y. Times, Apr. 4, 2013, at A23.





n202.  David Alan Sklansky, The Persistent Pull of Police Professionalism, New
Perspectives in Policing (Harvard Kennedy Sch., Cambridge, Mass. & Nat'l Inst.
of Just.), Mar. 2011, at 9, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/232676.pdf.





n203.  See, e.g., Charlie Beck & Colleen McCue, Predictive Policing: What Can We
Learn from Wal-Mart and Amazon about Fighting Crime in a Recession?, Police
Chief (Nov. 2009), http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuse
action=display_arch&article_id=1942&issue _id=112009 (arguing that "predictive
policing represents an opportunity to prevent crime and respond more
effectively, while optimizing increasingly scarce or limited resources,
including personnel") (Charlie Beck is the Chief of Detectives for the
L.A.P.D.).





n204.  Cf. Sklansky, supra note 202, at 9-10 ("A fixation on technology can
distract attention from the harder and more important parts of [policing], the
parts that rely on imagination and judgment.").





n205.  Perhaps the ambiguities of policing was best stated by sociologist Egon
Bittner, who described the job of policing as: "a mechanism for the distribution
of non-negotiably coercive force employed in accordance with the dictates of an
intuitive grasp of situational exigencies." See Egon Bittner, The Functions of
the Police in Modern Society: A Review of Background Factors, Current Practices,
and Possible Role Models 46 (1970).





n206.  See, e.g., Eric H. Monkkonen, History of Urban Police, 15 Crime & Just.
547, 555 (1992) (observing that early in American policing history the police
were expected to dole out social services to the city's needy).


                               2 of 22 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 2014 Temple University of the Commonwealth
                           System of Higher Education
                   Temple Political & Civil Rights Law Review

                                   Fall, 2014

                   Temple Political & Civil Rights Law Review

                     24 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 215

LENGTH: 21950 words

NOTE & COMMENT: FRISKY BUSINESS: MITIGATING PREDICTIVE CRIME SOFTWARE'S
FACILITATION OF UNLAWFUL STOP AND FRISKS

NAME: Alexander H. Kipperman*

BIO: * J.D., Temple University Beasley School of Law (2014).

TEXT:
 [*215]

   Introduction


   Over the last decade, police departments have begun to employ "predictive
crime software" (PCS) as a tool designed to reduce crime by forecasting the
likely locations of future crimes and enabling efficient resource allocation.
This software uses complex algorithms and regression models to identify hotspots
or large regions of increased criminal activity. A number of software companies,
such as IBM, PredPol, and Aseva develop this software specifically for police
departments.

   This paper begins by giving a brief history of how data has influenced police
action in recent decades and how police have come to use modern predictive
policing. It then proceeds to discuss the relevant constitutional issues
surrounding "stops" and "reasonable suspicion." n1

   By characterizing areas of criminal activity, this software directly raises
the issue of "high-crime areas" (HCA) within the context of Fourth Amendment
analysis. n2 The Fourth Amendment provides "the right of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures." n3 In 1968, in Terry v. Ohio, n4 the Supreme Court held that an
officer is permitted to briefly detain an individual, without violating his
Fourth Amendment rights, when he "observes unusual conduct which leads him
reasonably to conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be
afoot." n5 Stops conducted on this basis have become known as "Terry stops." In
Illinois v. Wardlow, n6 the Court relaxed the standards for determining
"reasonable suspicion" within HCAs. n7 This holding permits an officer to find
sufficient reasonable suspicion to conduct a stop  [*216]  when a suspect flees
upon sight of that officer. n8 More generally, Wardlow suggests that officers
might reasonably view otherwise innocent behavior as suspicious when within a
HCA. n9

   This comment then discusses how predictive crime software impacts Fourth
Amendment analysis and the rights of individuals within and around hotspots. It
also considers whether police departments have established mechanisms to protect
these rights from potential abuses. To address these issues, this paper examines
the New York City Police Department's history of conducting stops and the recent
Southern District of New York case, Floyd v. City of New York. n10 Findings
suggest that the implementation of data-driven policing is particularly
susceptible to political influences and policy-driven decision-making, thus
undermining PCS's purported objectivity. This diminished objectivity creates the
risk for widespread erosion of individuals' Fourth Amendment protections.
Finally, this comment recommends that municipalities remove PCS analysts from
the police command structure and place them in an independent agency structured
to protect objective, data-driven crime forecasting and hotspot identification.

   I. Background

   A. Predictive Crime Software

 Historically, police departments have used the standard policing model to
prevent crime through randomized patrols designed to "create a perception of
police omnipresence to deter crime in public places." n11 It emphasizes the
importance of "follow-up investigations by detectives to increase the
solvability of the crimes" n12 and encourages "general reactive arrest policies"
to "deter and punish specific offenders as well as deter the general public from
committing crimes." n13

   However because crimes tend to cluster, geographically smaller areas of
cities tend to contain a vastly disproportionate amount of criminal activity.
n14 The standard police model thus led to inefficient resource allocation. n15 A
1989 study found that  [*217]  three percent of all addresses in Minneapolis
accounted for fifty percent of police service calls. n16 Behavior analysis has
shown that crime tends to cluster because retaliations commonly occur through
inter-gang violence, and because burglars often return to the same, or
neighboring house in the days and weeks after a crime. n17 Jeff Brantingham,
anthropologist and PredPol developer, explained this concept: "criminals are
predictable creatures ... if there is an opportunity - a streetlight out on a
certain corner, say - a criminal will exploit that opportunity as long as it
exists." n18

   Although police departments have historically lacked advanced statistical
analysis to determine the probable location of future crime, general data
collection allowed for rudimentary analysis that has enabled police departments
to rationally adjust resource allocation. n19 Since the 1930s, n20 police
departments have collected data on "emergency response times, the number of
crime reports, number of cases investigated and solved, and the number of
arrests." n21 During the 1980s, New York City Transit Police Lieutenant, Jack
Maple, mapped every train and train station in New York City. n22 He would then
use "crayons to mark every violent crime, robbery and grand larceny that
occurred, indicating those solved and the unsolved." n23 These maps changed the
randomized nature of the standard model of policing by identifying high crime
areas and guiding Maple's decisions of where to allocate police officers. n24

   Advancements in technology enabled police departments to better understand
criminal patterns n25 and move "from a reactive stance to a more predictive
posture." n26 In 1994, the New York City Police Department ("NYPD") implemented
CompStat. n27 CompStat institutionalized the use of data by transforming the
NYPD's standard model to one entirely reliant and driven by statistical analysis
[*218]  and outcomes. n28 For the first time, police departments were able to
rely upon digital maps depicting specific crimes, charts illustrating
characteristics of crimes and arrests, and statistical feedback on the
percentage of command officers actively making arrests. n29 CompStat consists of
"regularized, interactive crime prevention and reduction strategy meetings where
managers are held accountable for the crime prevention approaches they implement
in their districts." n30 The NYPD reported a fifty-three percent decline in
burglaries, a fifty-four percent drop in reported robberies, and a sixty-seven
percent decrease in the murder rate between 1993 and 1998. n31 As a result, many
police departments throughout the United States adopted data-based policing
models. n32

   Today, police departments employ PCS to identify hotspots and areas of
increased criminal activity. n33 PCS uses complex algorithms and geographic
information systems ("GIS") to predict the location of future crime by taking
"advantage of the fact that crime is not uniformly distributed." n34 Some
forecasting may be achieved using programs such as Microsoft Excel or
statistical software packages and languages such as SAS, IBM's Statistical
Package for Social Sciences ("SPSS"), and an "open-source and freely
distributed" software known as "R". n35 However, large police departments employ
software specifically designed for forecasting crime, such as IBM's PCS,
PredPol, and HunchLab. Police departments in New York, New York have employed
IBM. n36 The following cities use PredPol: Memphis, Tennessee; n37 Seattle,
Washington; Tacoma, Washington; Los Angles, California; and Santa Cruz,
California. n38 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  [*219]  has recently adopted
HunchLab. n39

   Police departments rely upon their crime analysts' discretion to develop the
statistical regression and geographic mapping models that ultimately shape the
boundaries of HCAs. n40 As a result, the software and techniques employed by
police departments may vary significantly. n41 Regression analysis is "a
statistical tool for the investigation of relationships between variables" in
which the "investigator seeks to ascertain the causal effect of one variable
upon another." n42 All regression analyses initially depend upon a hypothesis
about the relationship of input variables (IV) of interest on a certain outcome,
the output variable (OV). n43

   Predictive crime analysis attempts to identify a causal relationship between
certain variables and crime. For example, a simple regression model may include
the frequency of past crime in a particular location, the IV, to predict the
likelihood of a similar crime, the OV, in the same location. n44 In reality,
predictive analysis relies on highly complex regression models. n45 The crime
analyst's selection of input variables is critically important to the model's
predictive value. n46 The selection process may take several forms. Some
analysts rely on manual experiments and correlation heuristics. n47 In this
method, the analyst applies his initial hypothetical set of IVs and then adjusts
the criteria to those with the greatest statistical value, i.e. those that
contribute high predictive accuracy. n48

   Some analysts may employ a forward/stepwise regression method that
interactively builds the regression by adding variables to statistically improve
the model's accuracy. n49 While this method leads to highly predictive models,
it has  [*220]  been criticized for falsely indicating the causal relationships
of IVs present in a given iteration. n50 Another selection method includes
"mathematical optimization." n51 These models place penalties on the number of
variables included in the model and weed out weak variables. n52 Mathematical
optimization results in the greatest overall predictive power; however, this
method requires sophisticated knowledge of language-based software. n53

   Using IBM, analysts can manipulate certain variables (type of crime, time,
weather, level of police presence, etc.), n54 while the software utilizes
"statistical data exploration and machine-learning techniques" n55 to analyze
historical crime data, geographic data, live video feeds, and complex datasets.
n56 These complex datasets include weather conditions, "vast amounts of textual
or unstructured data such as emails, videos and chat room interactions," n57 and
"triggers" such as paydays, holidays, and city events. n58

   PredPol relies on vast data banks, similar to IBM's software, but it uses a
"mathematical equation to predict crime based on the same formula currently used
to predict aftershocks for earthquakes." n59 The software's designers compare
the relationships of geographic features (like shopping malls) with crime to the
relationship between faults and earthquakes. n60 Brantingham, explains that
crimes, like earthquakes, tend to arise at a known rate and tend to occur in
clusters. n61 PredPol's developers claim that understanding these patterns
enables the software to forecast where crime will happen in the near future. n62

    [*221]  Crime analysts convert the findings from their regression models
into geographic representations. n63 These representations vary significantly
due to the analyst's discretion. n64 Modern GIS software (and even basic
software such as Excel) enables police departments to construct detailed,
interactive crime maps that are vastly more complex than the pin-and-crayon maps
created by Lieutenant Maple during the 1980s. n65 The analyst must decide how
large to define the hotspots - if too small, the map may exclude areas of
interest; if too large, the map fails to provide useful guidance for allocating
resources. n66 The analyst can choose among a variety of methods for
partitioning large geographic regions. n67 These methods "often yield different
numbers" while lacking theoretical justification for choosing one method over
another. n68 For example, the analyst may lay a grid over the relevant area. n69
A grid map of Washington, D.C. has each square grid representing a 250 meter by
250 meter area, n70 representing statistics from a six-month weighted average of
robbery data in 2009. n71 The analyst characterized the region with a level of
granularity defined by the grid. n72 The red colored squares represent the top
two percent for robbery counts; orange squares, the top five percent; and yellow
squares the top ten percent. n73

   Although incidents of crime tend to be clustered, these clusters rarely
constitute precise squares. n74 To account for this reality, crime analysts
manipulate the boundaries and threshold distance between crime incidents to
constitute a cluster. n75 The analysts ultimately determine the location, size,
shape and nature of hotspots by selecting certain variables, such as
concentration of past criminal incidents, environmental characteristics
associated with crime (or both), the amount of time captured by the analysis
(e.g., one year of crime data vs. five years of crime data), and the weighting
scheme applied to past criminal incidents. n76 Some analysts will mathematically
calculate a set of "ellipses" that overlay the grid based upon  [*222]  spatial
crime clusters. n77 Alternatively, the spatial representation might take the
form of hierarchical clusters, partitioned clusters, fuzzy clusters, density
mapping, or risk-terrain modeling (RTM) clusters. n78 While cluster analysis
tend to create isolated or bordered regions, fuzzy clustering relaxes some of
the rules of hierarchical and portioned clustering and allows some incidents to
exist in one or more overlapping clusters. n79 Density mapping creates a more
nuanced representation that smooth's over individual crime incidents, resulting
in a map looking "similar to a topography map; [where] areas with a higher
"elevation' have a higher density of crime." n80

   RTM guides the regression model by incorporating geographic variables into
hotspot detection. n81 Rather than relying solely on past criminal behavior,
this predictive policing model allows analysts to leverage decades of
criminological, sociological, and psychological research, traffic patterns, and
sporting and entertainment events. n82 The analyst selects the characteristics
that he believes will predict the risk of various forms of criminal activities.
n83 Criminological theories such as aggression theory, social behavior theory,
and practitioner knowledge inform this process. n84 Aggression theory states
that "high temperatures induce feelings of anger, frustration and irritation,"
and studies indicate that higher temperatures have been associated with violent
crimes. n85 Thus, identifying hotspots under RTM is highly sensitive to the
analyst's judgment. n86

   To utilize these PCS programs, police departments have created specialized
divisions. The NYPD houses its crime analytics within its Police Headquarters in
a division known as the "Real Time Crime Center" ("RTCC"). n87 The NYPD's RTCC
[*223]  contains forty detectives and civilian analysts, all accountable
directly to the Deputy Commissioner, who also serves as the NYPD's Chief
Information Officer ("CIO"). n88 Other cities have replicated this model, such
as Memphis, whose RTCC employs sixteen officers. n89 In Los Angeles, these labs
provide officers with a map that indicates the relevant area's hotspots on a
daily basis. n90 However, in New York and Philadelphia, crime analysts have the
ability to continually transmit crime data and geographic analysis directly to
an officer's mobile devices. n91 Due to this relationship, departments utilizing
predictive crime software have substantial influence over how street-level
officers patrol their cities. n92

   B. Constitutional Issues

 The Fourth Amendment provides that the "right of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated." n93 Fourth Amendment analysis turns on
questions of probability, n94 and the government's most severe infringements
upon these rights  [*224]  require a showing of probable cause. n95 A sufficient
showing of probable cause does not require meeting a "numerically precise degree
of certainty" or a "prima facie showing, of criminal activity." n96 Instead, it
requires that police demonstrate a "probability... of criminal activity." n97
However, probability of criminal activity arising from reasonable suspicion
requires "a showing considerably less than preponderance of the evidence." n98

   Police now rely upon HCA designations to validate presumptions of criminal
activity associated with potentially innocent conduct. n99 PCS fits into this
area of Fourth Amendment analysis by identifying areas of probable criminal
activity. n100 To determine the impact of PCS on individuals' Fourth Amendment
rights, it is crucial to understand how the courts have handled police action
involving HCAs.

   The requirement to demonstrate a probability of criminal activity protects
"citizens from rash and unreasonable interferences with privacy and from
unfounded charges of crime," while permitting for "fair leeway for enforcing the
law in the community's protection." n101 The Supreme Court has held that "the
probable-cause standard is incapable of precise definition or quantification
into percentages because it deals with probabilities and depends on the totality
of the circumstances." n102 In the case of arrest and search warrants, a neutral
detached magistrate must find probable cause defined as a reasonable belief
"that a crime has been committed and that the person or place named in the
warrant is involved in the crime." n103 Furthermore, courts reviewing an
officer's alleged finding of probable cause must "examine the events leading up
to the arrest, and then decide "whether these historical facts, viewed from the
standpoint of an objectively reasonable police officer, amount to' probable
cause." n104

   For the purposes of Fourth Amendment analysis, the terms "stop" and "frisk"
have become analogous with "seizure" and "search," respectively. n105 Whenever a
[*225]  police officer "accosts an individual and restrains his freedom to walk
away," n106 that individual has been seized. n107 In Terry, the court strongly
rejected the argument that stops-and-frisks fall "outside the purview of the
Fourth Amendment," n108 stating that such conduct amounts to a "serious
intrusion upon the sanctity of the person, which may inflict great indignity and
arouse strong resentment, and it is not to be undertaken lightly." n109

   Similarly, a search occurs whenever a police officer frisks an individual and
conducts a "careful exploration of the outer surfaces of a person's clothing all
over his or her body in an attempt to find weapons." n110 Unlike a search
justified by a warrant under which concerns of preserving evidence may guide
decisions, the "sole justification of the search [during a stop] is the
protection of the police officer and others nearby," and is "therefore confined
in scope to an intrusion reasonably designed to discover" hidden and potentially
harmful instruments. n111

   To deter lawless police conduct, the exclusionary rule prohibits the
admission of evidence obtained in a violation of the Fourth Amendment. n112 In
other words, that which the police discover "by means of a seizure and search
which were not reasonably related in scope to the justification for their
initiation." n113 Lawfulness depends on "reasonableness in all the circumstances
of the particular governmental invasion of a citizen's personal security." n114
Thus, to find an officer's action reasonable, a court must find the search and
seizure both "justified at its inception" and "reasonably related in scope to
the circumstances which justified the interference in the first place." n115

   Aware of the tension between the rights of the citizen and the "interest of
effective law enforcement," n116 the Terry court determined the context in which
a police officer may, without violating the citizen's right, ""stop' a person
and detain him briefly for questioning" and conduct a frisk. n117 Terry held
that a "police officer observing unusual conduct [that] leads him reasonably to
conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be afoot ... is
entitled ... to conduct a  [*226]  carefully limited search ... ." n118 The
officer must justify this stop with "specific and articulable facts which, taken
together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant that
intrusion." n119 The officer's discretion and "good faith alone are not enough."
n120

   Reviewing courts "must look at "the totality of the circumstances' of each
case to see whether the detaining officer has a "particularized and objective
basis' for suspecting legal wrongdoing." n121 "While "reasonable suspicion' is a
less demanding standard than probable cause and requires a showing considerably
less than preponderance of the evidence, the Fourth Amendment requires at least
a minimal level of objective justification for making the stop." n122 Stops made
pursuant to reasonable suspicion have become commonly known as Terry stops. n123
During a Terry stop, the officer may "stop and briefly detain a person for
investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion supported by
articulable facts that criminal activity "may be afoot,' even if the officer
lacks probable cause." n124

   In Wardlow, the Supreme Court held that, when within a HCA, an officer may
find reasonable suspicion of criminal activity when an individual flees from the
officer upon becoming aware of the officer's presence. n125 In such
circumstances, the officer need not articulate additional facts beyond the
suspect's flight within a HCA. n126 In Wardlow, several police offers were
patrolling "an area known for heavy narcotics trafficking." n127 Upon seeing
these officers, Wardlow fled, then "two of the officers caught up with him,
stopped him and conducted a protective pat down search for weapons" and found a
.38-caliber handgun. n128 Wardlow challenged the arrest on the grounds that the
officers lacked the reasonable suspicion necessary to conduct the initial stop.
n129 The Illinois Supreme Court upheld the Appellate Court's conclusion that the
gun should have been suppressed, n130 holding that "sudden flight" in a high
crime area "does not create a  [*227]  reasonable suspicion justifying a Terry
stop." n131 The court explained;



   Although police have the right to approach individuals and ask questions, the
individual has no obligation to respond. The person may decline to answer and
simply go on his or her way, and the refusal to respond, alone, does not provide
a legitimate basis for an investigative stop. Flight may simply be an exercise
of this right to "go on one's way,' and, thus, could not constitute reasonable
suspicion justifying a Terry stop. n132

 Drawing upon the reasoning contained in Adams v. Williams, n133 the Supreme
Court of the United States reversed the Illinois Supreme Court. n134 The United
States Supreme Court explained, "Officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whether the circumstances
are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation." n135 Thus, the
officer may include the area's "high crime" character "among the relevant
contextual considerations in a Terry analysis" n136 along with his "commonsense
judgments and inferences about human behavior." n137 As such, officers may
deduce reasonable suspicion from "nervous, evasive behavior" and "flight ... the
consummate act of evasion." n138 The Court recognized that people have the right
to refuse to cooperate, and that such refusal alone "does not furnish the
minimal level of objective justification needed for a detention or seizure."
n139 However, "unprovoked flight is simply not a mere refusal to cooperate.
Flight, by its very nature, is not going about one's business; in fact, it is
just the opposite." n140 Thus, when confronted with such flight in a high crime
area, an officer may conduct a stop based on reasonable suspicion. n141

   II. Discussion

 In Wardlow, the Illinois Appellate Court, n142 the Illinois Supreme Court, n143
and  [*228]  the Supreme Court of the United States n144 each agreed that the
officers were driving toward a HCA "known for heavy narcotics trafficking." n145
However, the Illinois Appellate Court found that officers stopped Wardlow
outside this HCA. n146 That court held the "high crime area should be a
sufficiently localized and identifiable location" to pass constitutional muster.
n147 The Illinois Supreme Court reversed this finding as a matter of law,
holding that "the reviewing court should take care both to review findings of
fact only for clear error and to give due weight to inferences drawn from those
facts by judges and local law enforcement officers." n148 Upholding the Illinois
Supreme Court's findings, the United States Supreme Court held that an officer's
personal judgment based on his experience, rather than empirical evidence, is
sufficient to characterize the area as a HCA. n149 Since Wardlow, courts have
upheld HCAs without strong empirical bases if they are "known for drug
activity," n150 "riddled with narcotics dealings and drug-related shootings,"
n151 ""notorious' or [have] a reputation for illegal conduct, n152 or are
"plagued by gang-related shootings, drug dealing, assaults, and robberies.'"
n153

   Recognizing that a pedestrian may break into a run for a variety of reasons,
both innocent and guilty, n154 the Court in Wardlow rejected the proposed per se
rule  [*229]  argued by Wardlow: the "fact that a person flees upon seeing the
police can never, by itself, be sufficient to justify a temporary investigative
stop." n155 It also rejected the government's proposed per se rule that "flight
is ... necessarily indicative of ongoing criminal activity." n156 Wardlow
attempted to strike a balance between these rules by modifying the "degree of
suspicion that attaches to a person's flight" and the range of "commonsense
conclusions" that an officer may reach respecting the motives behind that
flight. n157 For example, in a low crime area, officers might view flight as an
effort to catch a bus, where as in a high crime area, they might view a fleeing
person as someone in possession of contraband. n158 Thus, when within a HCA, an
officer may reasonably suspect a sufficient probability of criminal activity to
conduct a stop from behavior otherwise viewed as innocent. n159

   By boosting the probability of criminal activity associated with otherwise
innocent behavior, HCAs have a substantial impact on the Fourth Amendment rights
of individuals within these areas. During the same year as Wardlow, Judge
Kozinski, of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, attempted to create a framework
for HCA analysis. n160 He argued that the question is not "whether the
characteristics of the area may be taken into account, but how these
characteristics are established." n161 In United States v. Montero-Camargo, n162
the Ninth Circuit rejected the notion that an officer's subjective beliefs of a
person's race and location may constitute a "relevant or appropriate factor to
consider in determining reasonable suspicion," n163 and held "that courts should
... examine with care the specific data underlying any [assertion of a HCA]."
n164 Finding that a HCA can justify an otherwise illegal stop, the majority
further instructed district courts to "carefully examine the testimony of police
officers in cases such as this, and make a fair and forthright evaluation of the
evidence they offer." n165

   In United States v. Bonner, n166 the Third Circuit also sought empirical
determination of HCAs. The arresting officer in Bonner justified his arrest
based on reasonable suspicion by characterizing the relevant area as a "high
narcotics  [*230]  trafficking area." n167 The government defended this position
with evidence indicating that "an average of 1.3 arrests were made per week near
the place of the stop and the majority of these were for misdemeanor or summary
offenses" n168 and a newspaper article describing the location as within a
"high-crime area." n169 The district court rejected the government's argument
after finding that the crime rate failed to characterize the area as a HCA given
its large population. n170 While the Third Circuit reversed the district court
on grounds other than the HCA issue, Judge Smith, in his concurrence, discussed
the evidentiary standard required to appropriately characterize an area as a
HCA. n171 Specifically, he stated that the government must:



   prove the existence of objective criteria for what constitutes a high crime
area and that the stop occurred in such an area, or rather ... the government is
required to prove that officers effecting the stop had a reasonable articulable
basis to believe that they were in a high-crime area. n172

 Similarly, in United States v. Wright, n173 the First Circuit held that the
finding of a HCA generally entails an examination of "the nexus between the type
of crime most prevalent or common in the area and the type of crime suspected in
the instant case" within the "limited geographic boundaries of the area or
neighborhood." n174 That is, a "temporal proximity" must exist "between evidence
of heightened criminal activity and the date of the stop or search at issue."
n175

   Despite the attempts of these district and circuit courts to establish a
quantifiable framework for delineating HCAs, the Wardlow Court specifically
stated that "courts do not have available empirical studies dealing with
inferences drawn from suspicious behavior, and we cannot reasonably demand
scientific certainty from judges or law enforcement officers where none exists."
n176 Wardlow held that courts should defer to an officer's determination as to
reasonable suspicion "based on [his or her] commonsense judgments and inferences
about human behavior." n177 As described above, crime analysts necessarily
exercise a high degree of discretion when deciding how to geographically
represent regions of  [*231]  increased criminal activity. n178 The analyst is
capable of tailoring these regions to tightly conform to crime incidents or link
distant incidents to characterize larger regions. n179 In Wardlow, by some
mechanism independent of the arresting officer, the Chicago Police Department
identified certain areas within the city's Eleventh District ("D11") as HCAs.
n180 The officers stopped Wardlow while on their way to an area within D11 known
for "high narcotics traffic." n181 Admittedly, the officers had not yet reached
the area of known criminal activity. n182 However, the court permitted the
officer to rely on the nature of that area to color the character of Wardlow's
location "based upon [the officer's] experience in investigating areas in which
narcotics were sold," it was common for there to be weapons "in the near
vicinity." n183 Therefore, once a crime analyst identifies a hotspot or a HCA
and transmits that information to the street-level officer, courts should defer
to his subjective rationalizations and conclusions drawn from his experience.
n184

   The Supreme Court has permitted officers to consider information from
sources, such as informants, in their reasonable suspicion analysis. Wardlow
cited Adams v. Williams n185 where a police officer relied on an informant's tip
in conducting a Terry-like stop. n186 In Illinois v. Gates, Aguilar v. Texas,
n187 and Spinelli v. United States, n188 the Supreme Court dealt with police
informants' ability to provide qualitatively sufficient information for a
neutral detached magistrate to find probable cause. Until Gates, courts applied
a two-prong test, outlined in Aguilar and Spinelli, to determine whether an
informant's tip provides sufficient predictive value to establish probable cause
and whether an informant's tips can (just like HCAs) give "suspicious color" to
the otherwise innocent behavior contained in a suspect's police report. n189 The
pre-Gates test required revealing the informant's "basis of knowledge" and
providing sufficient facts to establish either the informant's "veracity" or the
"reliability" of the informant's report. n190 Thus, in  [*232]  accordance with
this test, warrant applications necessarily contain additional, corroborating
information to allow the magistrate to independently judge the validity of the
informant's allegation; an affiant officer swearing upon its reliability would
fail to provide sufficient ground for a magistrate to find the allegations
reliable. n191

   Even if partially corroborated, the magistrate must find the tip
independently trustworthy when standing alone from the other allegations
contained in the application. n192 The informant must also provide a sufficient
statement of the underlying circumstances from which the informer derived his
allegations and be able to explain why his statements are reliable. n193 Thus,
even if an informant's tip corroborates other information contained in the
warrant application, it would fail to "ripen into a judgment that a crime was
probably being committed" and provide a basis for probable cause. n194

   However, the Spinelli majority held that, when incapable of explaining how
the information was gathered, "it is especially important that the tip describe
the accused's criminal activity in sufficient detail that the magistrate may
know that he is relying on something more substantial than a casual rumor
circulating in the underworld or an accusation based merely on an individual's
general reputation." n195 Justice White criticized the majority's conclusion
that Draper v. United States n196 provided the proper "benchmark" of detail
sufficient for probable cause. n197 In Draper, the informant reported that
Draper would arrive in Denver on a train from Chicago on one of two days,
supplied a fairly detailed physical description, predicted that he would be
wearing a light colored raincoat, brown slacks and black shoes, would be walking
"real fast," and that he would be carrying a quantity of heroin. n198 While the
descriptive facts "reinforced the honesty of the informant" and were verified by
the officers at the train station, they could have been obtained from others and
the presence of narcotics may have been merely "inferred from circumstances
which a magistrate would find unacceptable." n199 Thus, Justice White rejected
the majority's suggestion that when an "informant is right about some things, he
is more probably right about other facts, usually the critical, unverified
facts." n200

   Despite Justice White's concerns, the Gates Court adopted a totality of
circumstances test that dispatched with Spinelli's "veracity prong." n201 Under
Gates,  [*233]  informants need not provide the basis for their information when
they have proven highly reliable in the past or when "corroboration through
other sources of information reduced the chances of a reckless or prevaricating
tale" of a highly detailed anonymous tip. n202 The majority explained that
"probable cause does not demand the certainty we associate with formal trials"
because a court may find a "fair probability" of the information's validity
sufficient through investigative corroboration. n203

   Adams is particularly relevant to PCS because it deals with the degree of
information that an officer might receive that is insufficient to provide
probable cause, yet sufficient to find reasonable suspicion. n204 This case
occurred pre-Gates, and was thus subjected to the higher Aguilar/Spinelli
standard; as a result, it would survive the Gates standard. In Adams, a known
informant informed an officer that "an individual seated in a nearby vehicle was
carrying narcotics and had a gun at his waist." n205 The officer then approached
the vehicle, tapped on the car window, and asked the occupant to open the door.
n206 When the occupant rolled down the window, the officer "reached into the car
and removed a fully loaded revolver from [his] waistband." n207 While the gun
was not initially visible to the officer outside the car, it was in the precise
location indicated by the informant. n208 The plaintiff challenged the
legitimacy of the search and seizure of his weapon, under Terry, for lacking a
"reliable informant, or some corroboration of the tip." n209

   The Court explained that an officer is not prohibited from investigating
possible criminal behavior in the absence of probable cause, and that the
"Fourth Amendment does not require a policeman who lacks the precise level of
information necessary for probable cause to arrest to simply shrug his shoulders
and allow a crime to occur or a criminal to escape." n210 Thus, even if an
"informant's unverified tip may have been insufficient for a narcotics arrest or
search warrant, the information [may carry] enough indicia of reliability to
justify the officer's forcible stop." n211 The fact that the officer knew the
informant provided a sufficient indicia of reliability, but "informants' tips,
like all other clues and evidence ... vary greatly in their value and
reliability." n212 As a result, some tips might require further investigation,
whereas others, such as when a victim is on the street seeking immediate police
aid and provides a description, may warrant a more immediate  [*234]  police
response. n213

   Officers may reasonably integrate PCS analysis into their reasonable
suspicion calculus as a type of known-informant in the same way the informant in
Adams provided a basis for the officer to reasonably heighten his suspicion of
criminal activity. n214 While some circuit courts have sought empirical bases
for defining HCAs, Wardlow permits the officer to rely upon his own judgment to
determine a HCA's spatial boundaries. n215 Wardlow upheld the officer's practice
of combining his experience with information that defined another area as a HCA
to characterize the area in which he stopped the suspect. Even if we assume that
the primary HCA had some empirical basis, the officer had combined this
information with his personal experience to expand that region to characterize
the location of Wardlow's arrest as one in which suspects may possess weapons.
n216 Under Gates and Adams, information received by the police need not provide
grounds for probable cause to conduct a constitutional Terry stop, and in each
of these cases, the court deferred to the officer's judgment when within a HCA.
n217

   Unlike an informant, PCS enables a police department to generate its own
tip-like information. n218 An examination of the NYPD illuminates how this
information can influence street-level officers' perception of their
surroundings. As described earlier, the NYPD pioneered data-driven policing and
predictive analytics. n219 In 2003, the NYPD initiated "Operation Impact," n220
which is still in effect today, and has applied "innovative mapping and
statistical tools" n221 to characterize a set of twenty precincts as "Impact
Zones;" n222 i.e. HCAs. n223 The identification process considered the nature,
time, location, date and number of crimes, elements of gangs and narcotics,
high-crime public housing developments, and ongoing crime trends. n224 Based on
this information, commanders subdivided some precincts into separate hotspots.
n225

    [*235]  Under Operation Impact, the NYPD assigned most of its police academy
graduates directly to HCAs (the "impact zones"). n226 The operation's
formulators reasoned that, because the academy graduates up to 1500 officers
every six months, this practice allows for efficient resource allocation. n227
Between January 2004 and June 2012, the NYPD police conducted over 4.4 million
Terry stops throughout the city. n228 After each stop, officers are required to
complete a "UF-250" form, also known as a "Stop, Question and Frisk Report
Worksheet." n229 This form provides "checkboxes and fields in which officers are
required to indicate the nature of the stop, and the circumstances that led to
and justified the stop (the "stop factors')." n230 Police designate stops
conducted within HCAs by checking the field: "Area Has Incidence Of Reported
Offense Of Type Under Investigation." n231 Because New York digitizes these
forms, the data readily indicates that HCAs provided the basis for fifty-five
percent of the stops between 2004 and 2009, n232 "regardless of the amount of
crime in the precinct or census tract as measured by crime complaints." n233
While Operation Impact's initial mapping pattern defined HCAs at the precinct
level, n234 the HCA-based stop locations suggest that entire boroughs, such as
Queens and Staten Island, have been treated as HCAs. n235

    [*236]  Recall, Wardlow enabled officers to combine their experience with
the information regarding the characterization of a particular location. n236 As
a result, inexperienced officers have deferred to this geographic character
information to conduct stops in their effort to meet quota systems instituted by
their commanding officers. n237 Indeed, the data suggests that these pressures
have led young officers to conduct stops based on nothing more than an
individual's presence within a HCA. n238

   These officers continued to rely on HCAs as the basis for stops despite the
fact that stops conducted outside HCAs were twenty-two percent more likely to
result in an arrest than those within HCAs. n239 By 2013, evidence showed that
crime-mapping software had brought Justice Stevens' warning to fruition by
enabling officers, particularly the inexperienced ones, to conduct
unconstitutional stops. n240 For example, the NYPD carried out more stops in
areas with Black and Hispanic residents. Controlling for other relevant
variables, the racial composition of a geographic unit proved the best predictor
of the rate of stops rather than the known crime rate. n241 In any area,
regardless of the overall racial composition, officers were more likely to stop
Black and Hispanic residents than White residents, even though stops of Whites
were thirty percent more likely to result in arrests. n242 Thus, the statistical
evidence indicated that the geographically large HCA designations enable and
perpetuate a trend of unconstitutional stops based on race. n243 In response to
these facts and in an effort to reduce the number of unjustified stops of
minority men, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio ordered Police Commissioner
William J. Bratton to stop sending "waves of rookie officers into crime-ridden
[*237]  neighborhoods." n244

   III. Analysis

 Although an officer's own experience plays a vital role in determining his or
her "reasonable suspicion," the information that crime analysts provide to
street-level officers plays an increasingly important role in how officers
perceive their surroundings. Crime analysts are subject to political and policy
initiatives because they exist within the police command structure. n245 As a
result, PCS creates an additional mechanism for commanders to influence the
conduct of street-level officers. n246 The effect on these officers is
particularly apparent, as seen in New York, when police departments unjustly
influence their officers' perceptions of geographic regions through purportedly
objective metrics. n247 Therefore, to mitigate the erosion of Fourth Amendment
rights in these regions, municipalities must create a better system of checks
and balances.

   Terry requires more than a "simple good faith" basis to conduct a stop. n248
However, an officer may rely upon his or her "experience" to evaluate suspicious
conduct. n249 In Terry, the Court looked to the officer's "30 years' experience
in the detection of thievery from stores" in the relevant neighborhood. n250
Similarly, the Wardlow Court deferred to the officer's experience by allowing
testimony explaining, "it was common for there to be weapons in the near
vicinity of narcotics transactions." n251 In Adams, the officer's experience
with the informant provided sufficient veracity of the information leading to
the stop. n252 Justice Stevens, dissenting in Wardlow, warned that HCA's might
threaten the  [*238]  constitutional rights of minorities living in such areas
by leading police officers to unjustly find reasonable suspicion in potentially
innocent behavior. n253

   The information provided by PCS inevitably influences officers' perception of
individuals based on their location, n254 and seems to have a predominating
influence over NYPD's officers. Although officers may perceive data provided by
PCS as objective, PCS forecasting and the hotspot identification process relies
on value-laden algorithms and the subjective decisions of PCS operators. n255 If
a city policy aims to reduce crime by increasing the number of stops, then crime
analysts may be influenced to manipulate geographic boundaries to increase the
size of and risk associated with HCAs. n256 Although PCS has led to substantial
reductions of crime in many cities, it comes at the cost of eroding the Fourth
Amendment protections provided under Terry.

   As explained earlier, analysts identify hotspots by arbitrarily choosing from
a range of methods for clustering crimes. n257 For example, IBM's software,
"Commander Dashboard," n258 enables analysts to forecast crime, identify
hotspots, and determine HCAs by manipulating a range of factors on its right
control panel. n259 The left panel indicates the locations and types of crimes
occurring within a certain timeframe. n260 The center panel contains the spatial
representation of forecasted crime in the region by coloring certain areas red,
yellow, or green. n261

   While the software permits hotspot identification down to block-level
specificity, this image clearly indicates that the analyst has chosen to
characterize large regions that have been geographically defined by streets.
n262 These decisions expand the region of heightened probability of criminal
conduct. As in Wardlow, this characterization demonstrates how analysts can
directly impact officers' conduct on the street by influencing the way officers
synthesize their observations and characterize the area. n263

    [*239]  In some cities, such as Santa Cruz, California, the police
department's crime analysts provide officers with a "crime forecast," indicating
when and where crimes might occur, and the probability of those crimes
occurring. n264 When deployed to a hotspot, Deputy Chief of Police Steve Clark
explains that he analyzes those who pass through that particular area. n265 When
he sees a suspicious individual, rather than stopping and talking to the person,
he will pretend as though he has not noticed him. n266 In Clark's case, rather
than using the hotspot information to justify more stops, he aims to reduce
crime in a region through using his presence as a deterrent.

   Philadelphia's new PCS, HunchLab, provides another example of in-house crime
analyst labs. n267 As explained by its developers, the software enables police
command staff to work with analysts to "design evidence-based tactics to use in
response to particular crime types" and "to limit these tactics to particular
geographic areas" or to "geographic features such as a school or bar." n268 A
certain danger, however, lies in this interaction between command staff and
analysts. Which party decides to set the scope of threat radius? Likewise, which
party decides which bars should be targeted?

   In 2008, Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, announced a new crime fighting
strategy aimed at reducing homicides by thirty to fifty percent over the
proceeding period of three to five years. n269 To accomplish this goal, the city
implemented "intelligent policing strategies" to target individuals with "proven
tactics, such as, but not limited to ... lawful stop and frisks." n270 This type
of policy determines how commanders interact with crime analysts. n271 To
prevent abuse, Philadelphia, and all cities employing PCS, should insulate the
analysts from pressures that might influence them to increase the geographic
size of HCAs in order to increase the number of lawful stops.

   Unfortunately, courts have not been forthcoming in setting the standards that
should be used to evaluate the existence of a HCA. n272 To fill this void,
Andrew Gutherie Ferguson recommends a "particularized approach" to high-crime
areas that centers "on the collection and distribution of particularized crime
data." n273 Ferguson argues this approach would focus on the "nexus between a
particularized  [*240]  crime pattern in a defined area and a police officer's
observations on the street." n274

   Such a framework requires prosecutors to prove the facts used to support the
finding of a HCA at an additional evidentiary examination procedure. This is
done by applying an "empirical approach to high-crime areas" that requires 1)
"the government [to] introduce objective, verifiable data about the level of
crime in a particular area... .relating to particularized and circumscribed;" 2)
that this data be "known to the officer before making the arrest, so as to
establish the nexus between the relevance of the high-crime area and the
reasonable suspicions of the officer;" 3) the trial court must then "make
factual findings about whether the area was objectively a high-crime area;" and
4) the trial court must then "analyze whether this fact affected the Fourth
Amendment reasonable suspicion analysis." n275 Under this analysis, if the
officer "did not base his decision on specific data about a specific crime
problem in a specific area, or if the data relied upon did not demonstrate a
specific and relevant crime problem, then reliance on this information should
not be considered." n276

   Ferguson's proposal is untenable under current Supreme Court precedent
because an officer need only "articulate something more than an "inchoate and
unparticularized suspicion or hunch,'" n277 and provide a "particularized and
objective basis" for suspecting legal wrongdoing. n278 Wardlow held that
officers may consider the "high crime" character of an area "among the relevant
contextual considerations in a Terry analysis." n279 PCS enables officers to
justify potentially unconstitutional Terry stops within hotspots by providing
the requisite minimal level of objective justification. n280

   In addition, Ferguson attempts to modify the reasonable suspicion calculus in
a way the Supreme Court flatly rejected in United States v. Arvizu. n281 In
Arvizu, the Ninth Circuit had attempted to analyze and weigh the various factors
considered in law enforcement's reasonable suspicion calculus. n282 The Supreme
Court, however, characterized the concept of reasonable suspicion as "somewhat
abstract" and incapable of being reduced to a "neat set of legal rules." n283

   Fourth Amendment analysis deals with probabilities derived; not from
technicalities, but from the "factual and practical considerations of everyday
life on  [*241]  which reasonable and prudent men ... act." n284 Since its
decision in Wardlow, the Supreme Court has instructed lower courts not to draw
"an unnecessarily sharp line between types of evidence." n285 To draw such a
line, it reasoned, would unnecessarily complicate the reasonable suspicion
analysis by adding a "divide-and-conquer analysis" that subjects various
elements of the totality of the circumstances to varying levels of review. n286
Even if a court were to accept certain heightened evidentiary standards, PCS
enables the government to meet the heightened evidentiary standards articulated
in Wright and Montero-Camargo: The arresting/stopping officer need only testify
that he relied on the map, while the crime analysts must provide an explanation
as to why the map sufficiently represents a nexus between the prior criminal
conduct and the geographically defined region. n287

   Although efforts to mitigate the problematic effects of PCS through
heightened evidentiary standards appear futile, Judge Scheindlin ordered
"immediate changes to the NYPD's policies ... [including] the appointment of an
independent monitor to oversee compliance with the remedies ordered in this
case" after finding that the NYPD's practices led to widespread unconstitutional
Terry stops and violations of the Equal Protection Clause. n288 In doing so, she
has attempted to establish a pre-litigation mechanism to protect citizen rights.
n289

   To mitigate the erosion of Fourth Amendment rights resulting from PCS
analysis, municipalities should shift their PCS operations away from the police
departments, and toward independent and neutral agencies, dedicated to the
identification of hot spots and forecasting of criminal activity. This framework
protects Fourth Amendment rights pre-litigation, and also institutes law
enforcement practices that foster constitutional conduct. Crime analysts are
accountable directly to their superior officers because police departments place
PCS analysts within their command structure. n290 As a result, politics and
command-level priorities dictate how crime analysts conduct and present their
research to street-level officers. n291

   An agency's independent status can protect against influence from other
governmental power sources and can immunize it from political coercion that
[*242]  might perpetuate various form of legal infraction. n292 Agencies acquire
independence from coercive forces by severing their accountability to
supervising officers. n293 Congress has sought to insulate agencies, such as the
Federal Election Commission ("FEC"), by structuring it as an independent agency
and eliminating the President's ability to exert his power to appoint and remove
the FEC's officers. n294 Congress reasoned that such independence enabled the
FEC's officers to freely serve the public's interest rather than the interests
of their superiors. n295

   In the context of the FEC, Congress feared that the "Justice Department,
headed by a Presidential appointee, might choose to ignore infractions committed
by members of the President's own political party." n296 Thus, Congress created
the FEC as an independent agency to protect the public from such infractions.
n297 Similarly, accountability to mayoral appointees, such as police chiefs and
commissioners, n298 pressures crime analysts to serve their superiors' interest
instead of the public. n299 As a result, political pressures to reduce crime
have lead crime analysts to broadly define hotspots and HCAs and increase the
number of Terry stops at the expense of the public's Fourth Amendment rights.
n300

   History suggests that cities can reduce crime in their region by increasing
the number of stops and arrests, but the same data suggests that without
limitations, the many of these stops may lack constitutional justification. n301
Independent crime  [*243]  analysts can achieve the necessary balance between
the need to protect the public through police action and the public's
constitutionally protected Fourth Amendment rights. Facts and objectivity should
drive PCS analysis. However, city policies, designed to broadly reduce crime,
influence crime analysts to expand the size of their geographical projections.
To ensure a level of objectivity, municipal councils should establish procedures
to verify the accuracy of collected information, specifically identifying
individual procedures to correct inaccurate information and clearly articulated
standards for setting thresholds regarding the geographic influence of crime
incidents and crime clusters. Crime analysts should avoid designating large
segments of cities as HCAs without an objective basis. Municipalities should
require crime analysts to follow procedural standards before transmitting data
directly to street-level officers by indicating the basis for providing such
information. For example, crime analysts might transmit that "there were 3
burglaries in the last 48 hours at locations [A], [B], [C]," n302 to an officer.
Analysts should accompany this type of data with explanatory information to
prevent the officer from increasing his suspicion of all individuals within the
area. In other words, crime analysts should avoid providing data that leads to
global characterizations.

   Independent PCS departments should also enforce mechanisms that ensure the
quality of their data in terms of censoring and relevance. Generally, censoring
suggests an underreporting of crime data that would lead to a failure of
recognizing areas of increased criminal activity. n303 However, some censoring
is required to ensure that the data accurately reflects existing crime patterns.
n304 For example, if an analyst applies a region's burglary data from the past
five years, the resulting map might characterize the entire region as high in
burglary. While this might serve a policy to crack down on crime throughout the
region, it comes at the expense of Fourth Amendment protections. Recognizing
these failures, Mayor de Blasio has considered appointing an independent monitor
to mitigate police violations. n305 In sum, cities should remove crime analysts
from the police command structure and place them within independent agencies
that have been structured to ensure objective analysis.

[*244]

   Conclusion

 A growing number of municipalities have adopted PCS as a tool designed to
efficiently allocate resources by identifying areas of heightened criminal
activity. This software uses regression analysis to forecast the probable
location of future criminal activity. n306 These regression formulas consider
past criminal activity, weather and traffic patterns, holiday and payday
information, and rely on certain behavioral theories to produce these forecasts.
n307 The software can identify areas of probable criminal activity as large as a
borough or as specific as a 500 feet by 500 feet area. n308 Cities that have
implemented this software claim that it has successfully reduced both crime and
costs. n309

   However, the experience over the last decade, most apparent in New York City,
suggests that this software has worked to erode the public's Fourth Amendment
protection from unreasonable stops and searches. Terry permits officers to stop
individuals without violating their Fourth Amendments rights when able to
"articulate something more than an inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or
hunch," n310 i.e., a ""particularized and objective basis' for suspecting legal
wrongdoing." n311 Adams and Wardlow permit officers to consider the character of
an area "among the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry analysis." n312
Adams explained that the information an officer receives from a known source can
influence his perception of the area around him. n313 Under Wardlow, conduct
with both innocent and guilty explanations (such as flight) can be characterized
as suspicious within a HCA whereas, outside of these areas, such conduct must be
viewed as innocent. n314 PCS serves as a type of known informant, and provides
officers with the requisite minimal level of objective justification to conduct
a Terry stop.

   PCS analysts exert a substantial degree of control over the evidentiary
production - the "particularized and objective basis" - for conducting a Terry
stop whenever they transmit hotspot or HCA information to an officer. In many
cities, mayors appoint the police chiefs and commissioners. n315 These officers
carry out the  [*245]  mayor's political and policy objectives by reallocating
their police department's resources. n316 This might lead those crime analysts
existing within such police departments to increase or reduce the size and
number of HCAs depending on the department's overall objects. n317 As a result,
the information they provide to street-level officers may lack an objective
basis of factual support. For example, crime analysts might exaggerate the
number of hotspots or geographic size of HCAs in order to serve political and
policy objectives. n318

   Furthermore, while circuit courts have asked government prosecutors to
evidence HCAs with empirical analysis, Wardlow rejects this line of inquiry,
focusing, instead, on the officer's "common sense judgments and inference about
human behavior." n319 The Supreme Court also rejected the notion of submitting
the various elements of the officer's reasonable suspicion to varying
evidentiary standards. n320 As a result, challenges to Terry stops within HCAs
for lack of empirical evidence tend to fail because Wardlow instructs courts to
focus their review on the officer's judgment.

   Due to this evidentiary barrier, municipalities should structure the
implementation of PCS such that the HCA identification process preserves
individuals' Fourth Amendment rights before the police conduct Terry stops. To
do so, this comment recommends that municipalities transfer the crime analysts
operating PCS out of the police command structure into an independent department
or agency. Within this framework, police departments would request, or regularly
receive, unbiased data and geographic mapping from the independent PCS
departments.

   This arrangement works to prevent the type of borough-sized HCA
classifications, seen in New York, that arise when officers use their own
experience to inflate the geographic area of a HCA identified by crime analysts.
In Wardlow, the officer stopped the suspect on his way to a HCA that had been
identified by a mechanism independent of the officer's experience. Based on that
HCA, the officer applied his own experience to characterize the surrounding
region as a HCA. n321 His characterization, combined with the suspect's flight,
justified the resulting Terry stop. The independent PCS department should
transmit crime data and mapping to officers with narrowly tailored geographic
zones. Within an independent agency, crime analysts can provide objective
analysis and narrowly tailored hotspots that  [*246]  will mitigate this
expansion effect and, ultimately, reduce the number of stops and arrests that
violate individuals' Fourth Amendment rights.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsSearch & SeizureGeneral
OverviewGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsPolice PowerReal Property
LawEstatesConcurrent OwnershipPartition Actions

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30 (1968) (holding that where a police
officer may stop an individual when he "observes unusual conduct which leads him
reasonably to conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be
afoot").





n2.  See Walter L. Perry et al., Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime
Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations 87 (2013), available at
http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/research_reports/RR200/RR233/RAND_RR23
3.pdf ("Law enforcement officials must carefully consider issues related to
privacy and First Amendment rights before acting on information of this
nature."); see also Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Crime Mapping and the Fourth
Amendment: Redrawing "High-Crime Areas", 63 Hastings L.J. 179, 209 (2011) ("By
marking out a defined space of potentially less constitutional protection, the
use of [geographic information system] technologies exacerbates a tension in
current Fourth Amendment doctrine.").





n3.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 8.





n4.  392 U.S. 1 (1968).





n5.  Id. at 30.





n6.  528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n7.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 125-126 (2000).





n8.  Id.





n9.  See id. at 124-25 ("Headlong flight - wherever it occurs - is the
consummate act of evasion: It is not necessarily indicative of wrongdoing, but
it is certainly suggestive of such. In reviewing the propriety of an officer's
conduct, courts do not have available empirical studies dealing with inferences
drawn from suspicious behavior, and we cannot reasonably demand scientific
certainty from judges or law enforcement officers where none exists. Thus, the
determination of reasonable suspicion must be based on commonsense judgments and
inferences about human behavior.").





n10.  959 F. Supp. 2d 540 (S.D.N.Y. 2013).





n11.  Rachel Boba Santos, Crime Analysis with Crime Mapping 41 (3d ed. 2012)
(internal quotation marks omitted).





n12.  Id.





n13.  Id.





n14.  Anthony A. Braga, U.S. Dep't of Justice Office of Cmty. Oriented Policing
Servs., Crime Prevention Research Review No. 2: Police Enforcement Strategies to
Prevent Crime in Hot Spot Areas 6 (2008), available at
http://ric-zai-inc.com/Publications/cops-p140-pub.pdf.





n15.  See id. ("During the late 1980s and early 1990s, a number of research
studies documented that crime is not spread evenly across city landscapes;
rather, that crime clusters in very small places, or hot spots, that generate a
disproportionate amount of criminal events.").





n16.  Id.





n17.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion, 62
Emory L.J. 259, 277 (2012) (discussing "near-repeat theory").





n18.  Tessa Stuart, Santa Cruz's Predictive Policing Experiment, SantaCruz.com
(Feb. 14, 2012), http://www.santacruz.com/news/2012/02/14/santa_cruzs_predictive
_policing_experiment.





n19.  See Predictive Crime Fighting, IBM,
http://www-03.ibm.com/ibm/history/ibm100/us/en/icons/crimefighting/ (last
visited Jan, 28, 2015) (claiming that predictive crime software leads "efficient
allocation of resources" by move from a reactive stance to a more predictive
posture).





n20.  Uniform Crime Reporting Statistics: Their Proper Use, FBI (Jan. 2011),
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/ucr-statistics-their-proper-use.





n21.  Santos, supra note 11, at 44.





n22.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n23.  Id.





n24.  Id.





n25.  IBM Crime Information Warehouse - Unlocking Data to Fight Crime, IBM Corp.
(June 2005),
http://www-935.ibm.com/services/in/gts/pdf/ciw-brochure-gc34-2501-01.pdf.





n26.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n27.  David N. Kelly & Sharon L. McCarthy, The Report of the Crime Reporting
Review Committee to Commissioner Raymond. W. Kelly Concerning CompStat Auditing,
NYPD Reports 5 (2013), available at
http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/downloads/pdf/public_information/crime_reporting_re
view_committee_final_report_2013.pdf.





n28.  Paul E. O'Connell, Using Performance Data for Accountability: The New York
City Police Department's CompStat Model of Police Management, IBM Ctr. for the
Bus. of Gov't 8 (2001), available at
http://www.businessofgovernment.org/sites/default/files/CompStat.pdf.





n29.  See Arthur Storch, Compstat - The Start of Revolution in Policing,
Worldwide L. Enforcement Consulting Group, Inc. 2 (2006), available at
http://www.worldwidelawenforcement.com/docs/COMPSTAT%20article.pdf
(characterizing CompStat's use of data and reports as revolutionary).





n30.  Santos, supra note 11, at 43.





n31.  O'Connell, supra note 28, at 8.





n32.  See Storch, supra note 29, at 2 (referencing Rome, New York; Port St.
Lucie, Florida; Rome, Italy).





n33.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 19 ("Hot spot methods predict areas of
increased crime risk based on historical crime data. Hot spot methods seek to
take advantage of the fact that crime is not uniformly distributed, identifying
areas with the highest crime volumes or rates.").





n34.  Id.





n35.  Id. at 18.





n36.  NYPD Changes the Crime Control Equation by Transforming the Way It Uses
Information, IBM,
ftp://ftp.software.ibm.com/software/solutions/pdfs/ODB-0144-01F.pdf (last
visited Jan. 28, 2015).





n37.  See News Release, IBM, Memphis Police Dep't Reduces Crime Rates with IBM
Predictive Analytics Software (July 21, 2010), available at
http://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/32169.wss [hereinafter Memphis
Police Dep't] (reporting on Memphis Police Department's new crime lab built on
IBM's software platform).





n38.  Jennifer Bachner, IBM Ctr. for the Bus. of Gov't, Predictive Policing:
Preventing Crime with Data and Analytics 19 (2013), available at
http://www.foresightfordevelopment.org/sobipro/55/1170-predictive-policing
-preventing-crime-with-data-and-analytics.





n39.  See Juliana Reyes, Philly Police Will Be First Big City Cops to Use
Azavea's Crime Predicting Software, Technically Media Inc. (Nov. 7, 2013, 12:30
PM),
http://technical.ly/philly/2013/11/07/azavea-philly-police-crime-prediction-soft
ware (explaining that during 2013, Philadelphia became the first large city to
use Azavea's HunchLab crime software).





n40.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 20 ("[Crime mapping is] highly sensitive to
arbitrary choices made by the researcher, such as the threshold distance, number
of clusters to map, and the shape to draw around clusters of incidents. Altering
one of these choices can substantially alter the resulting map and thereby the
decisions made using the hot spot map.").





n41.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 2 (explaining that each police
department differs in terms of management, information technology resources,
available datasets, policing methods, and software used for predictive policing
).





n42.  Alan O. Sykes, An Introduction to Regression Analysis 1 (Coase-Sandor
Inst. for Law & Econ., Working Paper No. 20, 1993), available at
http://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1050&context=law_
and_economics&sei-redir=1&referer=https%3A%2F%2Fscholar.google.com%2Fscholar%3Fq
%3DAn%2BIntroduction%2Bto%2BRegression%2BAnalysis%26hl%3Den%26as_sdt%3D0%26as_vi
s%3D1%26oi%3Dscholart%26sa%3DX%26ei%3DFeHkVJGaFJHUgwTRsYDYBQ%26ved%3D0CB0QgQMwAA
#search=%22An%20Introduction%20Regression%20Analysis%22.





n43.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 30 (describing the relationship between
input and output variables in linear regression analysis).





n44.  Id. at 29.





n45.  See id. at 10 (describing "predicative analytics" as "large data demand
and high complexity").





n46.  Id. at 29.





n47.  Id. at 31.





n48.  Id.





n49.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 31.





n50.  See id. ("These methods have come under heavy criticism for being
approximate and for giving the false impression that the variables making it
into the final model "cause' the output variable (instead of just happening to
be selected at a given iteration). These warnings aside, stepwise regression
frequently generates very good predictive models.").





n51.  Id. at 32.





N52.  Id.





n53.  Id.





n54.  Citizen Security Challenge: How to Overcome the Challenge and Take Control
with Intelligence Solutions, IBM Corp. 13-19 (2011) [hereinafter Citizen
Security Challenge], available at
http://www.gobiernofacil.go.cr/E-gob/gobiernodigital/eventos/CongresoSeguridad/C
ostaRica_eventGBM.pdf.





n55.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n56.  Id.





n57.  Id.





n58.  Citizen Security Challenge, supra note 54, at 12.





n59.  Christie Vaughn, PredPol Predicts Crime: Mathematical Algorithm Aids
Policing Method, Santa Clara, May 2, 2013, at 3, available at
http://issuu.com/thesantaclara/docs/tsc_050213_fullpdf.





n60.  See Government Technology Magazine Features PredPol Deployment in Tacoma,
PredPol (Sept. 25, 2013),
http://www.predpol.com/government-technology-magazine-features-predpol-deploymen
t-in-tacoma (reporting that the software uses certain features in the
environment that, by their nature, are prone to crime, much like faults are to
earthquakes, and quoting PredPol developer, Jeff Brantingham, who explained,
"[a] shopping mall is a great example. It's a standing crop of cars to be stolen
or to be broken into. It's not going anywhere. It's like a big fault that
produces earthquakes at a regular clip").





n61.  Id.





n62.  See id. ("Crimes also tend to produce aftershocks, as criminals tend to be
creatures of habit and return to the same locations where they found previous
success. So you get these after-crimes that occur near in space and near in time
to previous crimes." (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n63.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 6 (explaining that crime analysts plug
the results of their algorithms into ArcGIS and other GIS packages).





n64.  See id. at 33 (noting that an analyst will need to use a variety of
methods and employ their own knowledge of the jurisdiction when using regression
models).





n65.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n66.  Perry et al., supra note 2, at 20.





n67.  See id. (identifying a variety of methods that are discussed in the
article including, grid mapping, thematic mapping, covering ellipses, and kernel
density estimation).





n68.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 19 ("One of the key challenges with
partitioning is identifying the most appropriate number of clusters. Although
there are several techniques for determining k, they often yield different
numbers and no theoretical justification for choosing one over the other.").





n69.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 21 (providing a grid map of Washington,
D.C.).





n70.  Id.





n71.  Id. at 20.





n72.  Id. at 21.





n73.  Id. at 20.





n74.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 18 ("Because geographic space is inherently
continuous, the placement of a boundary to delineate a hot spot is somewhat
arbitrary.").





n75.  See id. at 19 ("After clustering, the researcher determines how to display
the clusters spatially. This involves selecting the number of clusters (e.g.,
first-order vs. second-order) to display and the method of delineating the
clusters (e.g., ellipses, convex hulls).").





n76.  Id. at 18.





n77.  Id. at 19 ("An ellipse is generated based on the distribution of the
incidents in a cluster and, by definition, includes geographical space around
each incident, which may comport best with the theory that future crime
incidents will occur in the vicinity of past incidents.").





n78.  Id. at 18-20.





n79.  Id. at 20 ("This category of methods relaxes several of the assumptions
required by traditional partitioning techniques. Although the researcher must
define the number of clusters (k) a priori, incidents can be members of multiple
clusters or no clusters.").





n80.  Bachner, supra note 38, at 20.





n81.  Id. at 16, 20 (identifying possible spatial variables such as stadiums,
shopping malls, hotels, population density, highways and bridges, public
transportation, bars and liquor stores, fast food restaurants, public health
information, and physical decay of infrastructure).





n82.  Id. at 20.





n83.  Id. at 21 ("RTM requires the analyst to identify those characteristics
that predict the risk of a certain type of crime... . The process of
identification is subjective, but should be informed by criminological theories,
existing empirical research, and practitioner knowledge.").





n84.  Id. at 16 ("Seasonal weather patterns, for example, have substantial
predictive power for a variety of crimes, such as suicide and auto thefts. Two
theories dominate the literature to explain why crime rates shift with
seasons.").





n85.  Id. ("The aggression theory states that high temperatures induce feelings
of anger, frustration, and irritation, which lead to aggressive behavior. This
theory has been linked to violent crime, as it is often an expression of human
aggression.").





n86.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 21 ("Just as with the other clustering
methods, the final map is sensitive to analyst judgment. With RTM, the analyst
must determine which risk layers to include in the composite map and which to
exclude. If the risk distribution in the composite map is highly sensitive to
changes in the risk layers, decision-making based on the map becomes exceedingly
difficult.").





n87.  Joseph D'Amico, Stopping Crime in Real Time, Police Chief (Sept. 2006),
available at
http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuseaction=display&article
_id=995&issue_id=92006.





n88.  Id.





n89.  See Memphis Police Dep't, supra note 37 (describing the Memphis Police
Department's RTCC); see also Salary Report Herenton Administration FY2008,
available at
http://www.scribd.com/doc/48982827/Salary-Report-Herenton-Administration-FY2008
(last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (providing a list of officers under the RTCC
payroll title).





n90.  See Guy Adams, LAPD's Sci-Fi Solution to Real Crime, Independent (Jan. 11,
2012), available at
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/lapds-scifi-solution-to-real-cr
ime-6287800.html (interviewing Los Angeles police sergeant John Gomperz, who
explained that he and his colleagues are given maps identifying a handful of
"boxes" measuring 500 feet by 500 feet - the supposed crime hot-spots for that
day).





n91.  See Real Time Crime Center: Criminal Investigations Evolved (2008),
available at https://www-304.ibm.com/easyaccess/fileserve?contentid=217004
(explaining how crime analysts are capable of sending information directly to
officers' Blackberry devices and providing an illustration of the "Cognos 8 Go!
Mobile" Blackberry interface); see also Features, HunchLab,
https://www.hunchlab.com/features/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (demonstrating
how the software pushes information to officer's iPads: "HunchLab pushes
valuable contextual information to officers in the field. The predicted
importance of specific crime types is displayed no matter where the unit is
located within the jurisdiction. Predictive mission areas are displayed when
appropriate along with relevant tactics and spatial notes. It's the perfect
mobile sidekick for your superheroes," and providing an illustration of an iPad
receiving "mission notes"); Technology, PredPol,
http://www.predpol.com/technology/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (providing
another example of what information officers receive from crime analysts).





n92.  See Adams, supra note 90 (demonstrating that predictive crime software
directs where and how police patrol certain areas, and quoting Andrew Ferguson
who has identified the risk that "if police wanted to target certain areas, or
demographics, then they could simply tweak the algorithm to ensure officers
visit certain neighborhoods"); see also Best Practice: Using Data to Target
High-Crime Areas, N.Y.C. Global Partners, 1-3 (2010) [hereinafter Best
Practice], available at
http://www.nyc.gov/html/ia/gprb/downloads/pdf/NYC_Safety%20and%20Security_Operat
ionImpact.pdf (explaining how the New York City Police Department uses software
to identify high crime areas and allocate resources accordingly).





n93.  U.S. Const. amend. IV.





n94.  See Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 235 (1983) (finding that showing
probable cause or reasonable suspicion requires the government to demonstrate
the "probability, and not a prima facie showing, of criminal activity").





n95.  See Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U.S. 103, 112 (1975) ("To implement the Fourth
Amendment's protection against unfounded invasions of liberty and privacy, the
Court has required that the existence of probable cause be decided by a neutral
and detached magistrate whenever possible.").





n96.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 235.





n97.  Id.





n98.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123 (2000).





n99.  See Floyd v. City of New York, 959 F. Supp. 2d 540, 581 (S.D.N.Y. 2013)
(finding that "the rate at which officers check High Crime Area in a precinct or
census tract is roughly 55%, regardless of the amount of crime in the precinct
or census tract as measured by crime complaints").





n100.  Bachner, supra note 38, at 6 (indicating that PCS generates predictions
about "where crime is likely to occur and where suspects are likely to be
located").





n101.  Maryland v. Pringle, 540 U.S. 366, 370 (2003) (quoting Brinegar v. United
States, 338 U.S. 160, 176 (1949)).





n102.  Id. at 371.





n103.  Shadwick v. City of Tampa, 407 U.S. 345, 350 (1972).





n104.  Pringle, 540 U.S. at 371 (quoting Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690,
696 (1996)).





n105.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 16-19 ("There is some suggestion in the use of
such terms as "stop' and "frisk' that such police conduct is outside the purview
of the Fourth Amendment because neither action rises to the level of a "search'
or "seizure' within the meaning of the Constitution. We emphatically reject this
... [notion] that the Fourth Amendment does not come into play at all as a
limitation upon police conduct if the officers stop short of something called a
"technical arrest' or a "full-blown search.'" (footnote omitted)).





n106.  Id. at 16.





n107.  See Florida v. Bostick, 501 U.S. 429, 436 (1991) (articulating the test
for determining whether a Terry stop is taking place as "whether a reasonable
person would feel free to decline the officers' requests or otherwise terminate
the encounter"); see also United States v. Glover, 957 F.2d 1004, 1008 (2d Cir.
1992) (holding that the following factors are indicative of a "seizure," a term
that encompasses both Terry stops and arrests: "the threatening presence of
several officers; the display of a weapon; the physical touching of the person
by the officer; language or tone indicating that compliance with the officer was
compulsory; prolonged retention of a person's personal effects, such as airplane
tickets or identification; and a request by the officer to accompany him to the
police station or a police room").





n108.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 16.





n109.  Id. at 17.





n110.  Id. at 16.





n111.  Id. at 29.





n112.  Id. at 12.





n113.  Id. at 29 (citing Warden v. Hayden, 387 U.S. 294, 310 (1967) (Fortas, J.,
concurring)).





n114.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 19.





n115.  Id. at 19-20.





n116.  Id. at 10-11.





n117.  Id. at 10.





n118.  Id. at 30.





n119.  Id. at 21.





n120.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 22.





n121.  United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 273 (2002) (quoting United States
v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981)).





n122.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 123 (citing United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 7
(1989)).





n123.  See Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial Dist. Court of Nevada, Humboldt Cnty., 542
U.S. 177, 197 (2004) (Breyer, Souter, & Ginsburg, JJ., dissenting) (referencing
police conduct involving stops and frisks as a "Terry stop").





n124.  United States v. Swindle, 407 F.3d 562, 566 (2d Cir. 2005) (quoting
Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 7 (1989) (quoting Terry, 392 U.S. at 30)).





n125.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-25 (holding that the officer "was justified
in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in criminal activity" due to his flight
from the police within a high crime area).





n126.  See id. at 123-25 (reasoning that "evasive behavior" can imply
"wrongdoing" and is a strong factor in "determining reasonable suspicion").





n127.  Id. at 121.





n128.  Id.





n129.  See People v. Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d 65, 66 (Ill. App. Ct. 1997) ("Defendant
contends that the circuit court erred in denying his motion to suppress because
his presence in a high crime area and flight from the police officers were
insufficient to justify his investigatory stop."), aff'd, 701 N.E.2d 484 (Ill.
1998), rev'd, 528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n130.  People v. Wardlow, 701 N.E.2d 484, 489 (Ill. 1998), rev'd, 528 U.S. 119
(2000).





n131.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 122.





n132.  Id. at 122-23 (citations omitted).





n133.  407 U.S. 143 (1972).





n134.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-26 (taking into account that the stop took
place in an area known for high-crime in its application of a Terry analysis,
concluding the officer was "justified in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in
criminal activity, and, therefore, in investigating further").





n135.  Id. at 124.





n136.  Id.





n137.  Id. at 125.





n138.  Id. at 124 (emphasis added).





n139.  Id. at 125.





n140.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125 (internal quotation marks omitted).





n141.  Id. ("The determination of reasonable suspicion must be based on
commonsense judgments and inferences about human behavior.") (citation
omitted)).





n142.  See Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d at 67 (accepting the officer's testimony that
their caravan was heading toward a HCA known for "high narcotics traffic").





n143.  See Wardlow, 701 N.E.2d at 485 (accepting that the area of the 11th
District known for "high narcotics traffic" constituted a HCA).





n144.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 137 (finding that the officers were headed for
"one of the areas in the 11th District [of Chicago] that's high [in] narcotics
traffic").





n145.  Id. at 124.





n146.  See id. (discussing that "an area of expected criminal activity, standing
alone, is not enough to support a reasonable, particularized suspicion..." and
suggesting that "expected criminal activity" would constitute a "high crime
area" relevant to this discussion).





n147.  Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d at 68.





n148.  Wardlow, 701 N.E.2d at 486.





n149.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 120 ("Courts do not have available empirical
studies dealing with inferences from suspicious behavior, and this Court cannot
reasonably demand scientific certainty when none exists. Thus, the reasonable
suspicion determination must be based on commonsense judgments and inferences
about human behavior.").





n150.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson et al., The "High-Crime Area" Question: Requiring
Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth Amendment Reasonable Suspicion
Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1605 (2008) (citing State v. Biehl, No. 22054,
2004 WL 2806340, at 5 (Ohio Ct. App. 2004)).





n151.  Id. (citing Cunningham v. State, 884 So. 2d 1121, 1122 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 2004)).





n152.  Id. (citing People v. Davis, 815 N.E.2d 92, 98-99 (Ill. Ct. App. 2004);
Slayton v. Commonwealth, 582 S.E.2d 448, 449 (Va. Ct. App. 2003)).





n153.  Id. at 1605-06 (citing United States v. Rogers, No. Crim. 10-10313, 2005
WL 478001, at 1 (D. Mass. Mar. 1, 2005)).





n154.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 128-29 ("A pedestrian may break into a run for a
variety of reasons - to catch up with a friend a block or two away, to seek
shelter from an impending storm, to arrive at a bus stop before the bus leaves,
to get home in time for dinner, to resume jogging after a pause for rest, to
avoid contact with a bore or a bully, or simply to answer the call of nature -
any of which might coincide with the arrival of an officer in the vicinity. A
pedestrian might also run because he or she has just sighted one or more police
officers. In the latter instance, the State properly points out "that the
fleeing person may be, inter alia, (1) an escapee from jail; (2) wanted on a
warrant; (3) in possession of contraband, (i.e. drugs, weapons, stolen goods,
etc.); or (4) someone who has just committed another type of crime."); see also
Alberty v. United States, 162 U.S. 499, 511 (1896) ("It is a matter of common
knowledge that men who are entirely innocent do sometimes fly from the scene of
a crime through fear of being apprehended as the guilty parties, or from an
unwillingness to appear as witnesses. Nor is it true as an accepted axiom of
criminal law that "the wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are
as bold as a lion.' Innocent men sometimes hesitate to confront a jury - not
necessarily because they fear that the jury will not protect them, but because
they do not wish their names to appear in connection with criminal acts, are
humiliated at being obliged to incur the popular odium of an arrest and trial,
or because they do not wish to be put to the annoyance or expense of defending
themselves.").





n155.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 126 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting
in part).





n156.  Id.





n157.  Id. at 128.





n158.  Id.





n159.  See id. ("The relevant inquiry concerning the inferences and conclusions
a court draws is not whether particular conduct is innocent or guilty, but the
degree of suspicion that attaches to particular types of noncriminal acts."
(quoting Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n160.  United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir. 2000).





n161.  See Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1605 (emphasis added) (citing
Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d at 1143 (Kozinski, J., concurring)) (describing Judge
Kozinski's opinion).





n162.  208 F.3d 1122 (9th Cir. 2000).





n163.  Id. at 1137.





n164.  See Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1609 (emphasis added) (citing
Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d at 1139 n.32) (requiring data and "more than mere war
stories" to establish a HCA).





n165.  Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d at 1138.





n166.  363 F.3d 213 (3d Cir. 2004).





n167.  See Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1611 (citing United States v.
Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 216 (2004)) (explaining that although the Court was
presented with data of frequent arrests, given the high population within the
area and the types of arrests, the Court found the area was not a HCA).





n168.  Id.





n169.  Id.





n170.  Bonner, 363 F.3d at 216 ("Despite this offer of proof, the district court
found that given the large amount of people who live in the housing project, the
area was not high in crime.").





n171.  Id. at 218 (Smith, J., concurring) (outlining Judge Smith's stance on
what method of proof and standard of proof should be required to make a
determination on the character of the area).





n172.  Id. at 218.





n173.  485 F.3d 45 (1st Cir. 2007).





n174.  United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53-54 (1st Cir. 2007).





n175.  Id.





n176.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-25.





n177.  Id. at 125.





n178.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 20 ("[Crime mapping is] highly sensitive
to arbitrary choices made by the researcher, such as the threshold distance,
number of clusters to map, and the shape to draw around clusters of incidents.
Altering one of these choices can substantially alter the resulting map and
thereby the decisions made using the hot spot map.").





n179.  Id.





n180.  Id. at 121 (accepting the officer's testimony that their caravan was
heading toward a HCA known for "high narcotics traffic"); see Map and Direction,
Chi. Police,
https://portal.chicagopolice.org/portal/page/portal/ClearPath/Communities/Distri
cts/District11/Map%20and%20Direction (last visited Jan 11, 2014) (indicating the
precise location of Wardlow's arrest).





n181.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 137 (stating that the officers testified that
they were "caravanning" eastbound down Van Buren toward an area known for
narcotics trafficking).





n182.  Id.





n183.  Id.





n184.  Id.





n185.  407 U.S. 143 (1972).





n186.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 120 (citing Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144
(1972) ("[A] location's characteristics are relevant in determining whether the
circumstances are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation.").





n187.  378 U.S. 108 (1964).





n188.  393 U.S. 410 (1969).





n189.  See, e.g., Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410, 415 (1969)
(indicating that the "standards enunciated in Aguilar must inform the
magistrate's decision").





n190.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 228-29.





n191.  See Spinelli, 393 U.S. at 415 (affirming the principle that probable
cause must be determined by a natural and detached magistrate).





n192.  Id. at 416.





n193.  See id. (finding an informant's tip inadequate for failing to provide a
"sufficient statement of the underlying circumstances").





n194.  Id. at 418.





n195.  Id. at 416.





n196.  358 U.S. 307 (1959).





n197.  Spinelli, 393 U.S. at 426-28 (White, J., concurring).





n198.  Draper v. United States, 358 U.S. 307, 309 (1959).





n199.  Spinelli, 393 U.S. at 426-27 (White, J., concurring).





n200.  Id. at 427.





n201.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 244 (stating that while this new standard may not
satisfy the ""reliability' or "veracity' necessary to satisfy some views of the
"veracity prong' of Spinelli ... we think it suffices for the practical,
common-sense judgment called for in making a probable cause determination").





n202.  Id. at 244-45.





n203.  Id. at 246.





n204.  See Adams, 407 U.S. at 149 (holding that an officer is not required to
present the same level of specific evidence when establishing probable cause as
he would need to demonstrate to support a conviction).





n205.  Id. at 145.





n206.  Id.





n207.  Id.





n208.  Id.





n209.  Id.





n210.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 145.





n211.  Id. at 147.





n212.  Id.





n213.  Id.





n214.  Id. at 149.





n215.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125 (finding that the "reasonable suspicion
determination must be based on [the officer's] commonsense judgments and
inferences about human behavior").





n216.  See id. at 122 ("[The officer] conducted a protective patdown search for
weapons because in his experience it was common for there to be weapons in the
near vicinity of narcotics transactions.").





n217.  See Gates, 462 U.S. at 244 (discussing the corroboration of anonymous
tips by police investigative work); Adams, 407 U.S. at 149 (explaining the
circumstantial analysis engaged by courts determining whether an officer had
probable cause).





n218.  See Adams, supra note 90 (explaining how crime analysts provide officers
with areas of heightened criminal activity).





n219.  See generally O'Connell, supra note 28 (explaining how NYPD's CompStat
model that relied heavily on data-driven policing was subsequently adopted and
replicated in cities throughout the United States).





n220.  Best Practice, supra note 92.





n221.  Id.





n222.  See id. (defining the impact zones as precincts "Midtown South, Midtown
North, 19th, 23rd, 25th, 32nd, 40th, 44th, 46th, 52nd, 67th, 70th, 73rd, 77th,
83rd, 103rd,104th, 107th, 110th, 115th, 120th and PSA 7 in the 40th and PSA 2 in
the 73rd (Housing)").





n223.  See id. (quoting Mayor Bloomberg describing these zones as "high-crime
areas").





n224.  See Best Practice, supra note 92 ("Mapping and analyzing crime data -
type, location, time, and date - enables the Department to delineate the zones
appropriately.").





n225.  Id.





n226.  See Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly
Announce Operation Impact II, Office of the Mayor (Jan. 12, 2004) [hereinafter
Operation Impact II],
http://www.nyc.gov/portal/site/nycgov/menuitem.c0935b9a57bb4ef3daf2f1c701c789a0/
index.jsp?pageID=mayor_press_release&catID=1194&doc_name=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nyc.go
v%2Fhtml%2Fom%2Fhtml%2F2004a%2Fpr007-04.html&cc=unused1978&rc=1194&ndi=1 ("The
NYPD coordinated its efforts with the five District Attorneys and assigned
Police Academy graduates to field training in the impact zones."); see also Best
Practice, supra note 92 ("Beginning in January 2003, the NYPD began to deploy a
majority of its Academy's graduating officers via Operation Impact to twenty
Impact Zones throughout the city."); On the Beat with NYPD's Rookie Class,
Mother Jones,
http://www.motherjones.com/photoessays/2011/09/nypd-rookies-dangerous-beat/mott-
haven (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) ("For more than seven years, the first
assignment for nearly all rookie New York City police officers has been to
patrol "impact zones' with the highest crime rates, often on foot and without
backup. The program is credited with decreasing crime but has also been blamed
for officer burnout and overly aggressive tactics."); Jonathan Lemire, Bill
Thompson Says NYPD's Operation Impact Should Use Veteran Cops, Not Rookies, N.Y.
Daily News (Apr. 11, 2013, 11:56 PM),
http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/thompson-flip-operation-impact-head-article-
1.1314320#ixzz2qEWdLnvM ("Operation Impact, launched in 2003, floods violent
areas with rookie cops to supplement regular manpower and enhance police
presence on the streets.").





n227.  See Lemire, supra note 226 ("You have, every six months, hundreds -
sometimes as many as 1,500 - rookie officers graduating, [NYPD Deputy
Commissioner Paul] Browne said. That gives us flexibility to assign large
numbers of officers to Impact." (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n228.  Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 573.





n229.  Id. at 572.





n230.  Id.





n231.  Id. at 644.





n232.  Id. at 574.





n233.  Id. at 581.





n234.  See Best Practice, supra note 92 (indicating certain precincts represent
impact zones); see also Operation Impact II, supra note 226 (expanding Operation
Impact by increasing the number of precincts categorized as impact zones).





n235.  Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 578.





n236.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124 ("Officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whether the circumstances
are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation. Accordingly, we
have previously noted the fact that the stop occurred in a "high crime area'
among the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry analysis." (citing Adams
407 U.S. at 147-48)).





n237.  See Adam Klasfeld, Whistleblower Testifies at NYPD Stop-and-Frisk Trial,
Court House News Serv. (Mar. 20, 2013, 11:29 AM),
http://www.courthousenews.com/2013/03/20/55872.htm (describing a trial
challenging the city's stop-and-frisk practices where "a suspended veteran
officer testified ... that superior officers pushed quotas during roll call
meetings").





n238.  See Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 581 ("The rate at which officers check High
Crime Area in a precinct or census tract is roughly 55%, regardless of the
amount of crime in the precinct or census tract as measured by crime
complaints.").





n239.  See id. at 575 ("For the years 2004 to 2009, stops were 22% more likely
to result in arrest if "High Crime Area' was not checked.").





n240.  See Alex Pareene, Kelly's Creative Writing: Stop-and-frisk and Muslim
Surveillance Are Wonderful!, Salon (July 23, 2013, 9:00 AM),
http://www.salon.com/2013/07/23/kelly_stop_and_frisk_and_muslim_surveillance_are
_wonderful/ (noting that the NYPD "carried out more than 200,000 illegal
stop-and-frisks" from January to July, 2013 by police officers who were
"generally outsiders, always inexperienced").





n241.  See Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 581 (The rate at which officers check High
Crime Area in a precinct or census tract is roughly 55%, regardless of the
amount of crime in the precinct or census tract as measured by crime
complaints.").





n242.  Id. at 589.





n243.  See id. at 590 ("The NYPD has known for more than a decade that its
officers were conducting unjustified stops and frisks and were
disproportionately stopping blacks and Hispanics. Despite this notice, the NYPD
expanded its use of stop and frisk by seven-fold between 2002 and 2011.").





n244.  J. David Goodman, Bratton Says Rookies' Role in Anticrime Effort Will
End, N.Y. Times, (Jan. 31, 2014),
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/01/nyregion/bratton-tells-chiefs-hell-stop-sendin
g-rookies-to-high-crime-areas.html?_r=0.





n245.  See Pareene, supra note 240 (emphasizing that as officers, crime analysts
must conform to police policies designed to reduce crime, such as Operation
Impact, and/or be subject to pressures from superior officers resulting from
quota systems).





n246.  Perry et al., supra note 2, at 65-67 ("Shreveport Police Department
staff, with the assistance of crime analysts, collected field interview and tip
information and distributed that information back to officers so they could take
action the next day. The crime analysts worked with district officers to develop
daily maps showing not just the predictions but also key situational awareness
data, including information on recent crimes... . The analysts then worked with
district commanders to select target areas for each day.").





n247.  See Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 589 ("[The] NYPD carries out more stops in
areas with more black and Hispanic residents, even when other relevant variables
are held constant. The best predictor for the rate of stops in a geographic unit
- be it precinct or census tract - is the racial composition of that unit rather
than the known crime rate").





n248.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 22 (noting that "good faith on the part of the
arresting officer is not enough" to find reasonable suspicion) (citing Beck v.
Ohio, 379 U.S. 89, 97-98 (1964)).





n249.  Id. at 30.





n250.  Id. at 23.





n251.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 122.





n252.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 146 (finding that an officer is "justified in
believing that the individual whose suspicious behavior he is investigating at
close range is armed and presently dangerous to the officer or to others" when
provided information from an informant "known personally" and who had "provided
information to him in the past").





n253.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. 132 (Stevens, J., dissenting) ("Among some citizens,
particularly minorities and those residing in high crime areas, there is also
the possibility that the fleeing person is entirely innocent, but, with or
without justification, believes that contact with the police can itself be
dangerous, apart from any criminal activity associated with the officer's sudden
presence.").





n254.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 20 (explaining that PCS analysis
color-codes geographic areas to indicate varying levels of predicted criminal
activity).





n255.  See id. at 19 (explaining crime mapping is "highly sensitive to arbitrary
choices made by the researcher, such as the threshold distance, number of
clusters to map, and the shape to draw around clusters of incidents" and that
"altering one of these choices can substantially alter the resulting map and
thereby the decisions made using the hot spot map").





n256.  Id.





n257.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 20-29, 46-48 (differentiating the
characteristics between "grid mapping," "covering ellipses," "single and dual
kernel density estimation," "heat maps," and other spatiotemporal modeling
methods).





n258.  See Citizen Security Challenge supra note 54, at 13-19 (providing
illustrations of the "Commander Dashboard").





n259.  Id. at 26.





n260.  Id. at 13-19 (illustrating the different panels on the dashboard).





n261.  Id. at 18.





n262.  Id.





n263.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 122 ("In [the officer's] experience it was common
for there to be weapons in the near vicinity of narcotics transactions.").





n264.  Stuart, supra note 18.





n265.  Id.





n266.  Id.





n267.  See Reyes, supra note 39 (explaining that, during 2013, Philadelphia
became the first big city to use HunchLab's PCS).





n268.  Features, supra note 91.





n269.  Phila. Police Dep't, Crime Fighting Strategy Presented to Mayor Michael
A. Nutter 4 (2008).





n270.  Id. at 11 (emphasis added).





n271.  Id.





n272.  See, e.g., Bonner, 363 F.3d at 218-20 (Smith, J., concurring) ("I write
separately only to highlight an issue implicated in the District Court's
fact-finding which we have not been required to address: whether under the
flight "plus' analysis of Wardlow, the government is required to prove the
existence of objective criteria for what constitutes a high crime area.").





n273.  Ferguson, supra note 2, at 221.





n274.  Id.





n275.  Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1640-43.





n276.  Ferguson, supra note 2, at 221-22.





n277.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 329 (1990) (quoting Terry, 392 U.S. at
27).





n278.  Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 273 (quoting Cortez, 449 U.S. at 417-18).





n279.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124 (citing Adams, 407 U.S. at 144).





n280.  See id. (indicating that "officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whether the circumstances
are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation," and that as a
result, the court "had previously noted the fact that the stop occurred in a
"high crime area' among the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry
analysis"); Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1627 (indicating that PCS
provides information about the relevant characteristics of HCAs for the purpose
of Terry analyses).





n281.  534 U.S. 266 (2002).





n282.  Id. at 272.





n283.  Id. at 274.





n284.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 149 (quoting Brinegar, 338 U.S. at 175).





n285.  Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 2.





n286.  Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 267.





n287.  See Wright, 485 F.3d at 53-54 (stating that evidence on what constitutes
a HCA "could include a mix of objective data and the testimony of police
officers, describing their experiences in the area"); Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d
at 1138 (stating that lower courts "must carefully examine the testimony of
police officers and make a fair and forthright evaluation of the evidence" when
an area is cited as a HCA).





n288.  Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 667.





n289.  Id.





n290.  See, e.g., Sample Law Enforcement Operations Manual, Ga. Ass'n of Chiefs
of Police 28 (Apr. 1, 2014),
http://www.gachiefs.com/word%20docs/Chapter%203%20-%20Organization-Administratio
n%202014.doc (indicating that crime analysis "shall be a function of the Chief
Executive Officer's Office").





n291.  Id.





n292.  Fed. Election Comm'n v. NRA Political Victory Fund, 513 U.S. 88, 95-96
(1994) ("We recognize sound policy reasons may exist for providing the FEC with
independent litigating authority in this Court for actions enforcing the FECA.
Congress's decision to create the FEC as an independent agency and to charge it
with the civil enforcement of the FECA was undoubtedly influenced by Congress'
belief that the Justice Department, headed by a Presidential appointee, might
choose to ignore infractions committed by members of the President's own
political party.").





n293.  Id.





n294.  Id.





n295.  Id.





n296.  Id.





n297.  Id.





n298.  See Commissioner William J. Bratton, N.Y.C. Police Dep't,
http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/html/administration/headquarters_co.shtml (last
visited Jan. 28, 2015) ("William J. Bratton has been appointed the 42nd police
commissioner of the City of New York by Mayor Bill de Blasio."); see also Mayor
Walsh Appoints William B. Evans Police Commissioner of the Boston Police
Department, Superintendent William Gross Named First African-American Chief in
Department History, City of Bos. (Jan. 9, 2014),
http://www.cityofboston.gov/news/default.aspx?id=6479 ("Mayor Martin J. Walsh
announced that he will appoint Interim Police Commissioner William B. Evans as
Police Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, and Superintendent William
Gross as Superintendent in Chief of the Boston Police Department.").





n299.  See generally Carl Matthies & Tina Chiu, Putting a Value on Crime
Analysts: Considerations for Law Enforcement Executives, VERA Inst. Just. (Mar.
2014),
http://www.vera.org/sites/default/files/resources/downloads/putting-value-crime-
analysts.pdf (assessing the value of a crime analysts by identifying his or her
responsibilities, which include generating products that apply to the
responsibilities and needs of line-level officers, first-line supervisors,
managers, and commanders).





n300.  See Ferguson, supra note 2, at 129 (discussing the constitutional
consequences that emerge when police administrators draw HCA lines, creating
officially designated HCAs, and street-level officers rely on this information
in making a Terry stop).





n301.  See Storch, supra note 29, at 4 (explaining that New York City
experienced an 80.2% decline in the burglary rate, a 77.7% decline in reported
robberies, and a 79% drop in the murder rate from 1993 to 2007); Bartholomew
Sullivan, Memphis Police's Blue CRUSH Program Gives IBM Company a Boost,
Commercial Appeal (Sept. 19, 2010, 12:04 AM)
http://www.commercialappeal.com/news/2010/sep/19/blue-crush-gives-ibm-a-boost/?p
rint=1 (claiming that the Memphis Police Department's "Blue CRUSH predictive
analytics-driven crime-fighting effort" reduced serious crime by fifteen percent
over four years); see also Stuart, supra note 18 (reporting that the Santa Cruz
Police Department claims that crime dropped four or eleven percent over a six
month period since implementing PredPol's PCS).





n302.  See Features, supra note 91 (providing an example of an iPad receiving
the addresses of three recent burglaries).





n303.  See Perry et al., supra note 2 at xx ("Data censoring involves omitting
data for incidents of interest in particular places (and at particular times).
If the data are censored, it will appear that there is no crime in a given
areas.").





n304.  See id. (explaining that data with little value should be omitted).





n305.  Yoav Gonen, De Blasio to Weigh In On "Independent' Cop Monitor, N.Y. Post
(Jan. 31, 2014, 2:36 AM),
http://nypost.com/2014/01/31/de-blasio-to-weigh-in-on-independent-cop-monitor/.





n306.  Maria Jofre, Analysis of Criminal Behavior Using a Logistic Regression
Model, NSW Gov't,
http://www.bocsar.nsw.gov.au/agdbasev7wr/_assets/bocsar/m716854l1/poster_jofre.p
df (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (providing an analysis of criminal behavior
using a logistic regression model).





n307.  See id. (identifying some of the characteristics used in the logistic
regression model).





n308.  How PredPol Works - Predictive Policing, Predpol,
http://www.predpol.com/how-predpol-works/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015).





n309.  Proven Results of Our Predictive Policing Software, Predpol,
http://www.predpol.com/results/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015).





n310.  White, 496 U.S. at 329.





n311.  Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 273.





n312.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124.





n313.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 148.





n314.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125.





n315.  See Commissioner William J. Bratton, supra note 298 (announcing Mayor
Bill de Blasio appointed William J. Bratton as commissioner of New York City);
see also City of Bos., supra note 298 (announcing that Mayor Martin J. Walsh
appointed William B. Evans as Police Commissioner of the Boston Police
Department and William Gross as Superintendent in Chief of the Boston Police
Department).





n316.  See, e.g., N.Y. City Charter as Amended through July 2004, City of N.Y.
(July 2004), http://home2.nyc.gov/html/charter/downloads/pdf/citycharter2004.pdf
(demonstrating the hierarchy by providing that, whenever it is in the judgment
of the mayor, the commissioner may be removed and not be subject to
reappointment).





n317.  See generally Matthies & Chiu, supra note 299 (describing the duties of
crime analysts to report data to supervisors as part of their role within the
structure of a police department).





n318.  See id. (acknowledging the responsibilities that crime analysts owe to
their supervisors, the possibility that an analyst would prioritize serving the
political or policy objectives of their supervisors over providing objective
analysis may exist).





n319.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125.





n320.  Id. at 123 ("While "reasonable suspicion' is a less demanding standard
than probable cause and requires a showing considerably less than preponderance
of the evidence, the Fourth Amendment requires at least a minimum level of
objective justification for making the stop.").





n321.  Id. at 122.


                               3 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 22 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 2014 Vera Institute of Justice, Inc.

                          Federal Sentencing Reporter

  PRIMARY MATERIAL: Letter to Patti B. Saris, Chair, United States Sentencing
                                   Commission

                            [NO NUMBER IN ORIGINAL]

                              27 Fed. Sent. R. 256


   JONATHAN J. WROBLWESKI, Director Office of Policy and Legislation U.S.
Department of Justice

                                 July 29, 2014

LENGTH: 5655 words

TEXT:


The Honorable Patti B. Saris, Chair
United States Sentencing Commission
One Columbus Circle, NE
Suite 2-500, South Lobby
Washington, DC 20002-8002

Dear Judge Saris:

   The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 requires the Criminal Division to submit to
the United States Sentencing Commission, at least annually, a report commenting
on the operation of the sentencing guidelines, suggesting changes to the
guidelines that appear to be warranted, and otherwise assessing the Commission's
work. 28 U.S.C. § 994(o) (2006). We are pleased to submit this report pursuant
to the Act. The report also responds to the Commission's request for public
comment on its proposed priorities for the guideline amendment year ending May
1, 2015. Notice of Proposed Priorities and Request for Public Comment, 79 Fed.
Reg. 31409 (June 2, 2014).

   The Promise and Danger of Data Analytics in Sentencing and Corrections Policy

   Eleven years ago, Michael Lewis released Moneyball, n1 a book describing how
Billy Beane, the general manager of Major League Baseball's Oakland Athletics,
used what was then considered massive amounts of statistical data to predict the
future performance of baseball players. Beane built a winning ballelub by
collecting promising players identified by his statistical models who had been
passed over by other teams. These players then went on to overachieve at a
startling rate. Beane succeeded by replacing the traditional method of
evaluating baseball talent being used by most Major League clubs with something
new. In the traditional method, older experienced baseball men "scouted" players
-- watching the players perform and using their accumulated wisdom and judgment
to identify those players who, they believed, would succeed into the future.
These scouts were indeed the qualitative experts of baseball at the time. But
Beane saw the value in analyzing past performance data in a more sophisticated
and rigorous way to dramatically improve the building of a baseball team by more
accurately predicting the future performance of players than scouts ever could.
Finding value through data, Beane built a winning team at a low cost.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n1 MICHAEL LEWIS, MONEYBALL: THE ART OF WINNING AN UNFAIR GAME (2003). Other
commentators have also seen the value of Moneyball as a particularly
illustrative example of how data analytics can outperform human decision making
in all sorts of endeavors. See, e.g., Kate Torgovnick May, infra note 2. These
include scholars and practitioners who have made the connection between
Moneyball and criminal justice. See, e.g., Dawinder S. Sidhu, Moneyball
Sentencing, (July 8, 2014), available at SSAN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2463876
or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2463876, Anne Milgram, infra note 7.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Since the publishing of Lewis' book, there has been an explosion in the use
of data analytics to identify patterns of human behavior and experience and
bring new insights to fields of nearly every kind. n2 The story of analytics in
industry after industry often follows the pattern found in Moneyball. n3 The
qualitative experts in a field -- the wise men and women with years of
experience -- are outdone by a statistical researcher with little field
knowledge, and even less experience, but with a tremendous understanding of
modern data analysis. The researcher knows what the wise men and women have a
tough time grasping: that an algorithm working on a problem thousands of times
faster than traditional methods can bring new understanding of a correlation or
sometimes even a specific cause and effect. Scientists have known for some time
now that when sufficient information can be collected and quantified,
statistical analysis will outperform an individual almost every time. The growth
in computing power, storage capacity and statistical and computational methods
has brought this reality to new areas of human experience at a growing pace. We
have seen the linking of diverse datasets, the deployment of sophisticated
analytics and algorithms, and the advancement in knowledge of human behavior
applied to everything from marketing to medicine; genomics to agriculture;
banking to matchmaking. n4

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n2 Kate Torgovnick May, The Moneyball Effect: How Smart Data is Transforming
Criminal Justice, Healthcare, Music, and even Government Spending, TED: IDEAS
WORTH SPREADING (Jan. 28, 2014, 12:26 PM),
http://blog.ted.com/2014/01/28/the-moneyball-effect-how-smart-data-is-transfonni
ng-criminal-justice-healtheare-music-and-even-government-spending/.

   n3 See Lewis, supra note 1.

   n4 See Torgovnick May, supra note 2.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   In criminal justice, the use of analytics is not new, of course. CompStat,
the New York City Police Department's management tool -- now replicated and
deployed in many other police departments across the country has, for example,
been used for decades to allocate police resources efficiently by mapping where
crime has occurred and predicting where and when crimes are most likely to occur
in the future. n5 The analytics of policing are evolving steadily and Predictive
Policing -- the use of algorithms that combine historical and up-to-the-minute
crime information to do the work of hundreds of traditional crime analysts and
produce real-time targeted patrol areas -- is spreading. n6 Judges are also
beginning to adopt risk assessment tools based on data analytics in pretrial
hearings. Recently, former New Jersey Attorney General Anne Milgram -- who first
connected Moneyball and criminal justice -- together with the Arnold Foundation,
developed a "comprehensive, universal risk assessment" tool that is already
being used by judges at pretrial hearings in every county in Kentucky. n7

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n5 See BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE & POLICE EXECUTIVE
RESEARCH FORUM, COMPSTAT: ITS ORIGINS, EVOLUTION, AND FUTURE IN LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES (2013), available at
https://www.bja.gov/Publications/PERF-Compstat.pdf.

   n6 See, e.g., Gordon Tokumatsu, LAPD Rolls Out "Predictive Policing" to
Prevent Crime, NBC LOS ANGELES, (Feb. 11, 2014, 10:39 PM),
http://www.nbclosangeles.com/news/local/LAPD-Rolls-Out-Predictive-Policing
-Prevent-Crime-245073541.html; see also, Wm F. Cody, Predictive Policing--Law
Enforcement's New Cyber Tool, LAW ENFORCEMENT TODAY (Jan. 15, 2012),
http://www.lawenforcementtoday.com/2012/01/15/predictive-policing
-%E2%80%93-law-enforeements-new-cyber-tooll.

   n7 Anne Milgram, Why Smart Statistics are the Key to Fighting Crime, TED:
IDEAS WORTH SPREADING (Oct. 2013),
http://www.ted.com/talks/anne_milgram_why_smart_statistics_are_the_key_to_tighti
ng_crime; Leila Walsh, Laura and John Arnold Foundation Develops National Model
for Pretrial Risk Assessments, LAURA AND JOHN ARNOLD FOUNDATION (Nov. 14, 2013),
http://www.arnoldfoundation.org/laura-and-john-amold-foundation-develops-nationa
l-model-pretrial-risk-assessments.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Similarly, predictive analysis has been part of sentencing and corrections in
the United States for many decades. The rehabilitative model of sentencing and
corrections, which was at the heart of the creation of the modern penitentiary
and which dominated sentencing and corrections policy in the U.S. until the late
20th Century, was fundamentally based on predicting future behavior.


     After a sentencing judge had imposed a prison term, which sometimes
     would be set in a range as broad as one year to life, prison and
     parole officials were expected and instructed to consistently review
     offenders' behavior in prison to determine if and when they should be
     released to the community. n8


The work of these prison and parole officials -- and the goal of the
rehabilitative model -- was to predict when the offender's return to the
community would be safe for all.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n8 Douglas A. Berman, Re-Balancing Fitness, Fairness, and Finality for
Sentences, 4 Wake Forest J. L. & Pol'y 151, 159 (2014).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Through the 1960s, the determination of when an offender would be released
from prison to the community looked a lot like a team of baseball scouts
predicting the future performance of a prospect. It was human analysis: the
gathering of bits of data and running them through individual human experience
and wisdom to make the assessment -- for the release decision by a parole board
just as for picking a first baseman by a scout team. Psychological theory and
research examined this kind of human analysis and decision making and revealed
clear findings that are now, with new and better data analytics, becoming even
clearer. First, this kind of complex human decision making is often based on
errors, biases and heuristics. Second, decision makers have little insight into
their own decision-making processes. And third, statistical models are more
accurate and more consistent, and thus fairer, than non-statistical human
decision making. n9

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n9 See DANIEL KAHNEMAN, THINKING, FAST AND SLOW (2011); R. Barry Ruback and
Jonathan J. Wroblewski, The Federal Sentencing Guidelines: Psychological and
Policy Reasons for Simplification, 7 Psych. Pub. Pol. And L. 739 (2001).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   This understanding of human decision making and its limitations compared to
actuarial and statistical modeling first led the U.S. Parole Commission to issue
guidelines for its release decisions and thus begin transforming the parole
function to take advantage of statistical modeling. That Commission created the
Salient Factor Score, based on such modeling, to help determine what the
Commission called "the parole prognosis," the likelihood of a parole violation
of one kind or another by an offender being considered for release. The Parole
Commission understood the superiority of the actuarial model in predicting
future behavior and the evenhandedness that would come with using such a model
as compared to human decision making. Subsequent research has shown the Salient
Factor Score - and later the Sentencing Commission's own Criminal History Score
- to be reliable predictors of post-imprisonment misconduct. n10

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n10 E.g., Peter B. Hoffman, Twenty Years of Operational Use of a Risk
Prediction Instrument: The United States' Parole Commission's Salient Factor
Score, 22 J. CRIM. JUST. 477 (1994); see also U.S. SENTENCING COMM'N, A
COMPARISON OF THE FEDERAL SENTENCING GUIDELINES CRIMINAL HISTORY CATEGORY AND
THE U.S. PAROLE COMMISSION SALIENT FACTOR SCORE available at
http://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/research-and-publications/research-p
ublications/2005/20050104_Recidivism_Salient_Factor_Computation.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   * * *

   The sentencing reform movement of the 1970s and 80s replaced the
rehabilitative model of sentencing that had been in place from the earliest days
of the Republic with a new sentencing framework based on truth-in-sentencing and
the idea that a criminal sentence should largely be based on the crime
committed. The foundation of the new system was the belief that reducing
reoffending was not a task worth pursuing - that nothing worked to change
offending behavior - and that excessive discretion in charging, sentencing and
parole decisions had led to unwarranted disparities and discriminatory impacts
on the poor and people of color. It was thought that certainty in sentencing -
certainty in the imposition of a particular sentence for a particular crime, and
certainty in the time to be served for a sentence imposed - would simultaneously
improve public safety by deterring new criminality, and also increase fairness
in sentencing by reducing unwarranted sentencing disparities. This new
determinate system of sentencing did not depend largely on predicting future
behavior, for sentences were based primarily on the offender's past criminal
conduct.

   The sentencing reform movement not only brought with it a new framework for
sentencing but also led, as we and many others have documented, to an
extraordinary increase in the use of incarceration. The Attorney General has
written and spoken regularly about the increase in the Nation's prison
population over the last three decades and why, in particular, it is imperative
that we control federal prison spending. The Commission's recent vote to reset
guideline offense levels for drug trafficking offenses is an important step to
meeting that imperative. We continue to work with Congress and the Commission to
find ways to adequately control the federal prison population while
simultaneously ensuring public safety.

   We have also previously noted how the increase in the prison population led
to an explosion in the number of people returning to the community each year
from stints in prison. n11 Then-Attorney General Janet Reno and then-National
Institute of Justice Director Jeremy Travis recognized this phenomenon in the
late 1990s, and much has been done to focus on effectively preparing offenders
to return to the community. Various efforts to reduce reoffending have yielded
promising results, and legislators, prosecutors, courts, and probation offices
around the country are focusing more and more on effective prisoner reentry.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n11 Annual Report from Jonathan Wroblewski, Director, Office of Policy and
Legislation, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, to Patti B. Saris, Chair,
U.S. Sentencing Comm'n (July 11, 2013) (on file with Dept. of Justice, available
at
http://www.justice.gov/criminal/foia/docs/2013annual-letter-final-071113.pdf).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   This new focus on reentry has brought with it a renewed need to identify
those offenders most at risk for reoffending upon release to the community and
to identify the individual needs of those offenders that if effectively
addressed could reduce the risk of reoffending. In the federal system, this has
taken form, for example, in the Judiciary's implementation of "evidence-based
practices" and the deployment of the Post-Conviction Risk Assessment Instrument
(PCRA). The PCRA uses information from an offender's past to identify both the
risk of reoffending and the needs to be addressed to lessen that risk. n12 Risk
and needs assessment instruments like the PCRA are a step in bringing data and
the scientific method to corrections. We think there is much to be celebrated
about this step.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n12 OFFICE OF PROB. AND PRETRIAL SERV.S, ADMIN. OFFICE OF THE U.S. COURTS, AN
OVERVIEW OF THE FEDERAL POST CONVICTION RISK ASSESSMENT (2011) available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/FederalCourts/PPS/PCRA_Sep_2011.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Moreover, research and experience are showing increasingly that the notion
from the 1970s that nothing works to reduce reoffending is simply incorrect.
Effective prisoner reentry is eminently possible. However, for many offenders,
especially those who enter the criminal justice system with social deficits,
limited skills and little family support, reentry is very difficult work.
Despite the progress seen in prisoner reentry programs in recent years,
recidivism research continues to show unacceptably high rates of reoffending
among released offenders. n13 Clearly, there is far more to be done, and we
believe the Commission has an important role in supporting research and
development work around reentry programs.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n13 PEW CTR. ON THE STATES, STATE OF RECIDIVISM: THE REVOLVING DOOR OF
AMERICA'S PRISONS (Apr. 2011) available at
http://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/reports/2011/04/12/state-of-re
cidivism-the-revolving-door-of-americas-prisons.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   In particular, we believe the Commission should support research and
development around the use of data analytics in reentry programs. We believe
such use has the potential to dramatically improve performance of reentry
programs and to transform the work of probation and community supervision. It
holds the long term potential to revolutionize community corrections to make it
far more effective than it is today and also a far more palatable alternative to
incarceration in certain cases.

   The deployment of analytics and other information technology in furtherance
of reentry can improve risk and needs assessments, but also has the potential to
do far more. For example, we believe that properly deployed, analytics and
information technology more generally can provide early warnings when an
offender is straying from her reentry plan. They can enable faster responses
from probation officers to get an offender back on track. They can provide more
effective delivery of needed services, the real-time awareness to let probation
officers know what's happening on the ground moment by moment, and real-time
feedback comparing what's happening relative to what was intended. Effective
service delivery combined with swift, certain and fair responses to misconduct -
the keys to successful corrections - can be greatly facilitated by these
technologies and analytics.

   We think the role, effectiveness and efficiency of community corrections and
individual probation officers could be dramatically reengineered with the use of
varied technologies and analytical tools and that recidivism rates can be
brought down on the same scale that violent crime has been reduced over the last
two decades. Linking diverse datasets, deploying analytics, and applying
advances in knowledge of human behavior, we believe, will all be part of that
reengineering. As former New Jersey Attorney General Anne Milgram stated, "The
returns for better applying technology in criminal justice extend far beyond
reducing crime or costs, to something that government officials are sworn to
uphold: justice." n14 The research and development around this potential
transformation is something the Sentencing Commission is in a unique position to
accomplish, and we think it is something the Commission should have on its
agenda.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n14 Milgram, supra note 7.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   * * *

   While we are excited about the promise of using analytics in risk and needs
assessments and otherwise in furtherance of effective reentry, we are troubled
by another use of these tools in sentencing and corrections: the increasing role
of risk assessment tools in the sentencing phase of criminal cases, specifically
in determining how long an individual will be imprisoned for a criminal
conviction. As we noted, risk assessments - through the Salient Factor Score -
had a prominent place in the federal parole system in place prior to the
Sentencing Reform Act and were a major determinant of the amount of time a
federal offender served in federal prison for an offense. The Sentencing Reform
Act was enacted to reduce the role of such assessments and to base imprisonment
terms largely, but not entirely, on the crime committed and proven in court.

   In recent years, states are increasingly adding risk assessments to the
criminal sentencing process. Pennsylvania n15 and Tennessee, n16 for example,
have enacted legislation mandating the use of risk assessments to inform
sentencing decisions. Vermont n17 and Kentucky n18 use sex offense recidivism
risk instruments in sentencing defendants convicted of sex crimes. For many
years now, Virginia has mandated the use of an actuarial risk tool to identify
low-risk offenders for diversion from prison for certain criminal convictions
and high-risk sex offenders for an increased sentencing range. n19 The Model
Penal Code is in the process of being revised to include actuarial risk tools in
the sentencing process. The revisions would direct sentencing commissions to -



     Develop actuarial instruments or processes, supported by current and
     ongoing recidivism research, that will estimate the relative risk that
     individual offenders pose to public safety through their future
     criminal conduct. When these instruments or processes prove
     sufficiently reliable, the commission may incorporate them into the
     sentencing guidelines. n20



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n15 42 Pa. Consol. Stat. Aim. § 2154.5 (2009).

   n16 Tenn. Code Ann. § 41-l-412(b) (2013).

   n17 28 V.S.A. § 204a(b)(l) (2013).

   n18 KRS 17.554(2) (2013).

   n19 Jordan M. Hyatt et a)., Reform in Motion: The Promise and Perils of
Incorporating Risk Assessments and Cost-Benefit Analysis into Pennsylvania
Sentencing, 49 DuQ. L. Rev. 707, 723 (2011).

   n20 Model Penal Code: Sentencing § 6B.09(2) (Tentative Draft No. 3, 2014).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   In the federal system, legislation pending in both the House and Senate would
make risk assessment once again a major determinant of imprisonment terms served
by federal offenders. n21 The legislation would regulate the portion of an
imposed term of imprisonment ordered by a court that would actually be served by
a federal offender. While the goals of improving reentry programming and
efficacy are laudable and while there is much we support in the legislation, we
are concerned by these key provisions that would base imprisonment periods to be
served on the results of a yet-to-be-created risk assessment instrument that
will evolve over time as data analytics develop and make their way into such
instruments. We think these provisions -- and the larger emerging trends around
risk assessments and sentencing -- raise many concerns the Commission ought to
study and address.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n21 Recidivism Reduction and Public Safety Act, S.1675, 113th Cong. (2014);
Public Safety Enhancement Act, H.R.2656, 113th Cong. (2013).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   First, most current risk assessments -- and in particular the PCRA, which is
specifically mentioned in the pending federal legislation -- determine risk
levels based on static, historical offender characteristics such as education
level, employment history, family circumstances and demographic information. We
think basing criminal sentences, and particularly imprisonment terms, primarily
on such data - rather than the crime committed and surrounding circumstances --
is a dangerous concept that will become much more concerning over time as other
far reaching sociological and personal information unrelated to the crimes at
issue are incorporated into risk tools. Th is phenomenon ultimately raises
constitutional questions because of the use of group-based characteristics and
suspect classifications in the analytics. Criminal accountability should be
primarily about prior bad acts proven by the government before a court of law
and not some future bad behavior predicted to occur by a risk assessment
instrument.

   Second, experience and analysis of current risk assessment tools demonstrate
that utilizing such tools for determining prison sentences to be served will
have a disparate and adverse impact on offenders from poor communities already
struggling with many social ills. The touchstone of our justice system is equal
justice, and we think sentences based excessively on risk assessment instruments
will likely undermine this principle.

   Third, use of risk assessments to determine sentences erodes certainty in
sentencing, thus diminishing the deterrent value of a strong, consistent
sentencing system that is seen by the community as fair and tough. Our brothers
and sisters in the defense and research communities have repeatedly cited
research to the Commission about the value and efficacy of certainty of
apprehension and certainty of punishment in deterring crime. Swift, certain and
fair sanctions are what work to deter crime, both individually and across
society. We know that certainty in sentencing -- certainty in the imposition of
a particular sentence for a particular crime, and certainty in the time to be
served for a sentence imposed - simultaneously improves public safety and
reduces unwarranted sentencing disparities. We are concerned that excessive
reliance on risk tools will greatly undermine what has been achieved around
certainty of sentencing in the federal system.

   Determining imprisonment terms should be primarily about accountability for
past criminal behavior. While any effective sentencing and corrections policy
will take account of future behavior to some extent -- incapacitating those more
likely to recidivate and utilizing effective reentry efforts to reduce the
likelihood of recidivism -- we believe the length of imprisonment terms should
mostly be about accounting for past criminal conduct. As analytics evolve, we
are concerned about the implications of sentencing policy moving away from this
precept.

   We think the Sentencing Commission's agenda should include the study of risk
assessment tools and their various uses in the sentencing and
corrections/reentry processes. Following such study, the Commission should issue
a statement of policy about the proper role of these instruments in the federal
criminal justice system in particular. As analytical tools transform risk
assessment instruments, there is great potential for their use, but also great
dangers. With the Commission's help, the good can be harnessed, the dangers
avoided, and like Billy Beane, we can achieve success - here, increased public
safety and greater justice -- at far lower costs to all.

   Structural Sentencing Reform

   Several years ago, we noted that federal sentencing practice was fragmenting
into at least two distinct sets of sentencing outcomes. On the one hand,
sentencing outcomes in many courts remain closely tied to the sentencing
guidelines. These courts have continued to impose sentences within the
applicable guideline range for most offenders and most offenses. n22

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n22 See U.S. SENTENCING COMM'N, SOURCEBOOK OF FEDERAL SENTENCING STATISTICS,
Table 26 (2013) available at
http://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/research-and-publications/annual-rep
orts-and-sourcebooks/2013/Table26.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   On the other hand, many courts that while still influenced by the sentencing
guidelines deviate regularly and significantly from them. n23 These courts
regularly impose sentences outside the applicable guideline range irrespective
of the offense type or the nature of the offender. n24 In addition, there are
certain offense types for which the guidelines have lost the respect of a large
number of judges across districts. The most obvious of these offense types is
child pornography crimes.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n23 See id.

   n24 See id. at Table 27 available at
http://www.ussc.gov/sites/defauIt/files/pdf/research-and-publications/annual-rep
orts-and-sourcebooks/2013/Table27.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   We remain concerned by this evolution of federal sentencing into two separate
practices. Most importantly, the research and data make increasingly clear that
this divide leads to unwarranted sentencing disparities. More and more, studies
are showing that a defendant's sentence will be significantly influenced by the
judicial assignment of the case and the particular court that conducts the
sentencing. n25 This is quite troubling. In our consideration of federal
sentencing policy, we begin from the principle that offenders who commit similar
offenses and have comparable criminal histories should be sentenced similarly.
This was the foundational principle of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. It
seems that our federal sentencing system may be meeting this principle less and
less.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n25 Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, Surprising Judge-to-Judge
Variations Documented in Federal Sentencing, TRACREPORTS (March 5, 2012),
http://trac.svr.edu/ti-acreports/iudgo/274/.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   We continue to believe the Commission should study these diverging practices
and, over the long run, consider structural reform of the federal sentencing
guidelines to address them. In addition to increasing disparities, the current
guidelines structure spurs much needless litigation. This is not surprising,
given that the guidelines structure was developed for a different legal
framework, when the guideline calculation was intended to be the last word for
most cases.

   To this end, much can be learned from state sentencing guideline systems.
There has been significant research of state guideline systems. n26 As we have
stated before, these systems, by and large, differ structurally from the federal
sentencing guidelines in that they have simpler sentencing grids, fewer grid
cells, and less complex guideline formulas -- i.e. fewer aggravating and
mitigating factors embodied in rules for litigators to fight over. Conventional
thinking would suggest that a greater numbers of cells with more factors
embodied in rules would create a greater number of sets of similarly situated
offenders and result in a greater degree of sentencing consistency and
meaningful differentiation among offenders. n27 However, the available research
and experience suggest that greater detail in the sentencing grid and sentencing
formulas does not better sort offenders into more meaningful categories for
purposes of sentencing decisions. n28 In particular, our experience with the
very detailed federal guidelines, when applied through the legal framework
created by Booker, has seen quite disparate guideline application and sentencing
outcomes. These findings should guide the Commission in its work evaluating
unwarranted disparities as much as data on guideline compliance by federal
judges. Moreover, we think these findings -- along with many other factors --
should guide the Commission to consider structural guidelines reform to produce
a simpler guideline system.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n26 E.g., Richard S. Frase, State Sentencing Guidelines: Diversity,
Consensus, and Unresolved Policy Issues, 105 COLUM. L. REV. 1190-1232 (2005).

   n27 Wroblewski, supra note 11.

   n28 See, e.g., Brian J. OSTROM, ET AL., NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS,
ASSESSING CONSISTENCY AND FAIRNESS IN SENTENCING: A COMPARATIVE STUDY IN THREE
STATES (2008).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   We continue to believe that a strong and consistent federal sentencing system
is important to improving public safety across the country -- as it has over the
past decades -- and to furthering greater justice for all in a cost effective
manner. And we further believe that much can be learned from the states,
including how a simpler form of sentencing guidelines can improve consistency,
reduce unwarranted sentencing disparities, and better allocate sentencing
decisions among the stakeholders in the criminal justice system.

   A strong and effective federal sentencing system is critical to keeping
national crime rates low, moving them still lower, improving justice, and
addressing specific and acute crime problems.

   ...

   Conclusion

   The policy agenda we suggest here is substantial. The range of issues
represents the range of the Commission's statutory responsibilities, including
overseeing the systemic health of the federal sentencing system and its
structural elements, addressing individual guidelines in need of reform,
resolving circuit conflicts, and more. We look forward to discussing all these
issues with you and the other Commissioners with the goal of refining the
sentencing guidelines and laying out a path for developing effective, efficient,
fair, and stable sentencing policy long into the future.

   Under the leadership of the Attorney General, violent crime rates continue to
fall and are now at generational lows. Our goal is to continue to improve public
safety while ensuring justice for all by means of the efficient use of
enforcement, judicial and correctional resources. We appreciate the opportunity
to provide the Commission with our views, comments, and suggestions.

   Sincerely,

   Jonathan J. Wroblewski

   Director, Office of Policy and Legislation


                               15 of 22 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2014 Clinical Law Review, Inc.
                              Clinical Law Review

                                   Fall, 2014

                              Clinical Law Review

                            21 Clinical L. Rev. 201

LENGTH: 28968 words

ARTICLE: IMPOSSIBLE CHOICES: BALANCING SAFETY AND SECURITY IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
REPRESENTATION

NAME: Camille Carey and Robert A. Solomon*

BIO: * Camille Carey is an Associate Professor of Law at the University of New
Mexico School of Law. Robert Solomon is a Clinical Professor of Law at the
University of California Irvine School of Law. The authors wish to thank
Catherine Fisk, Jane Stoever, the faculty at the University of New Mexico School
of Law, and participants at the Tenth International Clinical Legal Education
Conference. We were privileged to work with Mary Adkins and Elizabeth Tulis,
whose combination of talent, dedication, and good will were extraordinary.
Professor Carey thanks Ernesto Longa, Erin Joyce, KC Manierre, and Doreen
Jameson for outstanding research assistance. Professor Solomon thanks Lisa Fae
Petak for the same.

TEXT:
 [*201]



    Domestic violence victims often face the impossible choice between physical
safety and financial security. State intervention can offer some protection to
victims, but enlisting the criminal justice system through reporting domestic
violence or restraining order violations can have drastic financial
consequences. Involving the state is likely to lead to sanctions for the abuser
that would ultimately deprive the victim of child support, alimony, and other
financial support, which may be the totality of the victim's financial
resources. To avoid this result, many victims refuse to enforce court orders
intended to maximize their safety. This article examines the context in which
victims must "choose" between physical safety and financial security and the
lawyer's difficult position when a client prioritizes financial stability. Using
a compelling case study that exemplifies this impossible choice, the article
examines the role of economic dependence in victim decision-making; reasons why
victims avoid protections offered by the criminal justice system; issues of
capacity, competence, and the Model Rules of Professional Conduct in
representing victims; the different models of client-centered lawyering and
cause lawyering; the question of whether private rights become public in
domestic violence cases; and recent social science work on the ability to
predict future domestic violence based on current behavior. The authors view
this through the lens of law school clinical programs, and the experiences of
students who work on the cases and what limitations, if any, there are to
representation when the client trades safety for economic stability.




   Introduction

 We co-taught a Domestic Violence Clinic at Yale Law School. Our clinic followed
a holistic model in which the clinic students represented victims of domestic
violence in a full range of legal problems,  [*202]  including family law,
immigration, tort actions against abusers, mortgage foreclosure, consumer,
landlord-tenant, public benefits, and tax matters. We found that many of our
clients were forced to balance the issue of physical abuse with the threat of
severe financial stress. In this article, we offer a case study in which our
client, largely out of concern for her children's economic security, refused to
enforce civil restraining and criminal protective orders to ensure that her
husband would be able to work and support the family. This situation is not
unique. Many of our clients were loath to enforce existing restraining orders or
protective orders, fearing that enforcement would result in incarceration of the
abuser, which would interrupt financial support. These pressures were
particularly severe for clients with minor children.

   This article focuses on the role of economic security in a domestic violence
victim's decision-making, and the role of the attorney in trying to assist in
and execute the domestic violence victim client's decisions. We concentrate on
the economic pressures that make it difficult to leave, but recognize that
financial matters represent one piece of a complicated picture. We are concerned
with isolating any single factor in what is often a multi-faceted decision. As a
result, we have purposely taken a wide-ranging approach in examining both the
factors that lead to a decision to stay or not enforce court orders, as well as
the role of the lawyer in helping to effectuate these decisions. We analyze this
situation through the lens of one clinic case - offering the perspectives of the
clinic students who worked on the case and discussing what limitations, if any,
there are to representation in a case like this when a client trades safety for
economic stability. This is a broad analysis, and we appreciate that we raise
more questions than we answer, but we are looking for ways to better inform
representation of clients in dangerous situations, and we have not found the
answers to be easily forthcoming.

   In Part I, we discuss our client Barbara's situation as a case study that
provides a context in which to examine these complex issues. We provide
background about Barbara's case, along with the perspectives of the two clinic
students who, under our supervision, represented Barbara and identified many of
the issues relevant to this article in a contemporaneous "g-chat" (instant
messaging through Google) about her case. In Part II, we provide an overview of
the problem presented by Barbara's situation and many other similar situations -
namely what limits, if any, there might be in a lawyer's representation of a
domestic violence victim when that representation may increase the victim's risk
of harm or circumvent legal processes that are meant to protect the victim. We
look at issues of capacity and competence and  [*203]  when a lawyer can limit
or withdraw from representation under the Model Rules of Professional Conduct.
Part III examines how financial pressures and economic dependency cause many
domestic violence victims to eschew court involvement or "opt out" of the
criminal justice system. In Part IV we discuss other reasons why victims opt out
of court protections - including problems with the criminal justice system, fear
of retaliation, concerns about immigration consequences for the victim or the
abuser, and love for and attachment to the abuser. Part V views domestic
violence representation through different models of representation, namely
client-centered lawyering and cause lawyering. Part VI explores whether domestic
violence victims' rights are public or private rights. Part VII examines the
predictability of domestic violence under lethality and risk assessment
instruments and questions whether these instruments should guide lawyers in
representing victims of domestic violence.

   I. The Case Study

   A. The Client: Barbara

 Each week, we went with our clinic students to a local domestic violence
advocacy center located in a beautiful, old Victorian house in a nearby
neighborhood in New Haven, Connecticut. We interviewed prospective clients at a
dining room table under a chandelier in what had once been an upscale dining
room. It was there that we met Barbara. Barbara had been married to her abuser
for 19 years and had two minor children, ages 10 and 15. During the marriage,
Barbara had never been away from home overnight without her husband Tom,
although he had taken several trips with girlfriends. Her husband was extremely
controlling. She was not permitted to work or learn a trade. He owned a
business, had substantial earnings, built a house, paid all the bills, and doled
out household money in modest amounts. The business was labor-intensive and was
entirely dependent on his ability to bid on public contracts and perform
strenuous physical labor. If he did not work, the income stream would end.

   Barbara's husband beat her frequently. On two occasions, she took pictures of
her black eyes and bruises. The only time she went to a doctor, she gave a false
account of the cause of her injuries. She was afraid to take any action that
could lead to her husband's arrest. Her main concerns were that she be able to
pay the mortgage and household bills and continue to maintain her children's
home and lifestyle.

   Two years before we met her, Barbara prepared a pro se divorce complaint.
Connecticut has an unusual procedure, in which a complaint is served before
being filed with the court. When Barbara  [*204]  served her husband in their
home, by handing him a copy, she was afraid of physical violence. Instead, he
looked at the papers, tore them in half, told her she was not getting a divorce,
and left the house. She felt trapped, but assumed that her husband was correct.
She believed there was no way she could pay for an attorney and there was no way
she could get the divorce on her own. It was only after she contacted a domestic
violence hotline that she learned that she might be able to receive free legal
services.

   We represented Barbara for three years, obtaining a divorce, custody,
alimony, child support, and a property settlement. During that period, the only
time she was inconsolable was when her husband was arrested when a neighbor
reported a domestic dispute at Barbara's home. Barbara told us that the one
thing she could not allow was for her husband to go to jail. She could put up
with anything so long as she could provide for her children, and the only way
she could do that was for her husband to keep working. Although the court had
entered restraining orders and, due to a third party complaint, a criminal
protective order, Barbara refused to enforce those orders. n1

   In a remarkably successful multi-day divorce trial, the court awarded Barbara
over 50% of her husband's income for child support and alimony, as well as 100%
of the equity in the marital home, valued at $ 350,000. Connecticut is an
"equitable distribution" state, and the evidence was quite compelling and was a
major factor in the property distribution. As just one example, Barbara
testified that one morning, on awakening after a beating the night before, she
was exhilarated when she looked in the mirror, because she had only one black
eye, when she expected two.

   Family lawyers reading about a "remarkably successful" result in a domestic
violence case will probably ask "then what happened?" Even before the end of the
trial, we knew that compliance with the terms of the judgment was unlikely. At a
recess during the last day of the trial, when things were not going well for the
defendant, we saw him huddled with his brother, who then made a series of
telephone calls. They conducted their business openly, with an occasional smirk
for our benefit. It was clear that they were planning something, and equally
clear that they wanted us to be worried about it. When our client got home, most
of her furniture was missing. In one sense, we were relieved that the plan was
limited to possessions, but we filed a motion for contempt the next morning. The
problem was resolved  [*205]  when the older son, then 17, drove to his father's
house, convinced his father to help him load the furniture on a truck, and
brought it home.

   At trial, the judge issued a new restraining order, on her own motion, noting
that this was the first time in her twelve years on the bench she had issued a
restraining order without an application. An earlier restraining order had
expired, and Barbara did not want a new order, having experienced panic when her
husband was arrested for violating the order.

   Tom continued his attempts to control Barbara. He violated the restraining
order on a regular basis. He came to the house frequently. Barbara refused to
take any action to enforce the order. He failed to pay alimony and child
support, and we were in court on contempt motions on many occasions, always
seeking compliance with the financial orders, but never raising the restraining
order violations. Usually he showed up at court with a check. Once he brought
forty $ 100 bills. Eventually, the court scheduled monthly hearings, requiring
that he keep current on payments.

   At a post-judgment contempt hearing for failure to pay child support and
alimony, the defendant described a conversation he had with Barbara at the
marital home, noting that he had frequent conversations with her at the house.
The judge was livid about his failure to comply with the restraining order, and
said she should throw him in jail until he learned the meaning of a court order.
The judge suggested that we might need a public defender for the unrepresented
defendant, a sure sign that she was considering jail time. We expected this
issue to arise, and the students were prepared. They found themselves arguing,
strenuously and effectively, that the court should issue additional monetary
sanctions, but not incarceration.

   We had warned Barbara that the restraining order violations were likely to be
disclosed. Barbara remained adamant that she wanted to enforce the financial
orders, but not the restraining order. In fact, the mortgage was in arrears and
without access to support and alimony payments, a mortgage foreclosure was
imminent.

   The judge expressed fear for Barbara's safety, a fear that we had lived with
for over two years, with constant self-doubts about our failure to enforce the
restraining and protective orders. We had discussed this as a class and as a
litigation team. We had the benefit of consultation with a psychologist
specializing in domestic violence issues, social workers who consulted with
Barbara, victim advocates, and a prosecutor assigned to domestic violence
prosecutions. In the end, the students and the authors agreed that the choice
was the client's, not ours. When the judge raised her concerns, the students
explained and advocated for the client's position. The judge looked surprised,
and took a  [*206]  recess. When she returned to the bench, the judge allowed
the defendant to remain free and to continue working.

   The defendant continued to violate the restraining and protective orders and
Barbara continued in her insistence that she wanted us to enforce the financial
orders but to do everything we could to keep her now ex-husband out of jail.
Ultimately, he came to the house one day when Barbara's friend was visiting.
When the friend told him to leave, Tom told the friend to mind his own business
and pushed him, causing him to crash into a bookcase and hurt his shoulder.
Someone called the police, they came, and the defendant was arrested. After a
lengthy plea bargain, he pled to five violations of restraining orders and
protective orders, and was sentenced to four years imprisonment.

   B. The Students' Perspective: Mary and Elizabeth

 When we started writing this article, we contacted Mary Adkins and Elizabeth
Tulis, the Yale Law School students who represented Barbara throughout the above
case study. Yale Law School permits first-year law students to enroll in a
clinic, and Mary met Barbara at an outreach site a few weeks into the spring
semester of her first year of law school. Elizabeth worked in the Yale clinic
during the summer between her first and second years of law school and, as part
of her responsibilities, represented Barbara throughout the summer. Both Mary
and Elizabeth continued to represent Barbara throughout their second and third
years of law school. (We appreciate the luxury of having the same students work
with a client for over two years, but we do not think that changes the issues).

   After an initial discussion about this article, Elizabeth offered an
extraordinary g-chat that she had with Mary during the representation. The
content has been edited slightly for length, but the words are entirely our
students'. While this paper is about a lawyering problem, and not about clinical
pedagogy, our case study did arise in the context of a domestic violence clinic,
and, as the conversation shows, the students were conscious of and concerned
with our client's refusal to enforce orders, and it brings to life in real time
the difficult issues with which we were all struggling. The clinical setting
adds a dimension to the lawyering skills involved, and we think it is helpful to
consider the real-time concerns of the students:

   Mary: Tom [husband] comes over a lot, according to Joe [Barbara's friend].
Joe was like "He has to go to jail to get his attention."

   Elizabeth: Joe saw him come over? Was Barbara there when Tom came over?

   Mary: Yes and she hid upstairs. He has a key.

    [*207]  Elizabeth: Tom came in the house? Did Barbara get the locks changed?

   Mary: Yes but it doesn't matter. I don't think he has the order yet. Whether
or not Barbara wants Tom to go to jail, something has to change in the way she's
been dealing with this, or else Tom simply won't stop. He won't stop.

   Elizabeth: I wonder if we could ask for financial sanctions. Barbara really
might need to get used to the idea of him being in jail for a while. We're just
no longer in a place where we can use this to get assets divided, etc.

   Mary: I think [the judge] is smart and caring.

   Elizabeth: But even [the judge] is going to lose patience at some point and
be like, if he keeps doing these things, and she wants him to stop, he needs to
face the consequences. I just feel like in this case, I am really walking a line
between serving what Barbara "wants" and giving her good legal advice, honest
legal advice, about what her options are and good practical advice, responsible
advice, about what I think she should do, legally.

   Mary: I think we've told her what she has to do legally. She's not doing it.

   Elizabeth: I feel like there's a certain point in this case, though, where I
can't honestly be asking for a TRO [temporary restraining order] n2 that she
won't enforce. Or, there's not anything I can do if she won't enforce it. By not
allowing us to report violations we're not serving her interests, - at least if
we think that subjective assessments of interest in cases like Barbara's are not
all there is. If Barbara thinks that everything would be fine if she took Tom
back, that that was what she wanted, would we be serving her interest by
facilitating that? Or by, say, transferring property to Tom? I don't know, I
guess I've just been feeling really frustrated, to some extent with Barbara
herself.

   Mary: I mean I think this is the fundamental question in DV work, right?

   Mary: But what she's asking from us in this particular kind of instance is
not action but inaction, not pushing the violation in front of the court, which
is a passive kind of facilitating I realize, but it's more palatable to me.

   Elizabeth: It's making Tom think she won't enforce. It just feels very
hypocritical, when our whole case was premised on "he's so abusive and he needs
to be away from her."

    [*208]  Mary: I know. I asked her today if she felt scared of him and she
said no, not right now. I said, well he has the key to the house, you know he's
going to change his tune at any point and he could hurt you.

   Elizabeth: And if at some future point, she does want to enforce, and report
him, say coming to the house, he'll go to court and say "she's just mad at me
for something else - I've been coming to the house all the time and she hasn't
complained." [The judge] TOLD Barbara not to have contact with him at the
hearing.

   Mary: I'm not sure she would have told me today, except Joe was there and he
said it.

   Elizabeth: I just feel weird going to [the judge] and asking her to enforce
child support, say, but refusing to bring up the other contempt. It suggests
that Barbara, like Tom, is being selective in her respect for the orders. I know
that's not exactly what it is...but it doesn't feel right to me, when we put on
such a dramatic DV case and emphasized that this was about getting him out of
her life, to tolerate him staying in it in such blatant ways. Ethically (not
legally ethically, just ethically) it is getting to me.

   Mary: She's legitimately scared about his incarceration. I mean, scared for
legit reasons.

   Elizabeth: But she's not being particularly respectful towards the legal
orders.

   Mary: Well, right, but they are orders that she asked for.

   Elizabeth: Or to the legal framework her case assumed when we decided to
present DV evidence at trial and asked [the judge] to rule on it. It would be
different if we had not gotten all those financial orders etc. on the basis of
the DV.

   Mary: Because those aren't the priorities in her life. She's thinking about
her priorities which I think are reasonable to a certain extent.

   Elizabeth: But Tom's violation of the RO (restraining order) is a criminal
act - maybe that's part of the reason this is bothering me. Because literally,
legally, by imposing the RO, Barbara was involving the state, and making it the
state's interest too.

   Mary: Well she certainly picks and chooses.

   Elizabeth: I guess, maybe, I've just sort of internalized the basic premise
of the civil/criminal distinction, which is that once you enter the criminal law
system, it's not just the interest of the victim, but of society that is at
issue. Going into the system, you marshal the resources of the state to protect
you, but you also cede some control of the case to the State.

   Mary: I think you really hit the nail on the head when you told her that she
can't have someone to keep mowing the lawn but not beating her up. Her lifestyle
WILL change. I don't think she's accepted that.

    [*209]  Elizabeth: I know. Like she says she's trying to, but I feel like
she's saying that to please us.

   II. The Problem: Capacity, Competence, and Limiting or Withdrawing from
Representation

   A. The Problem

 Our case study raises several issues. What does client-centered lawyering mean
in such a context? It is easy to say that we take direction from the client, but
does it matter that the client is placing herself in danger of serious harm or
death, not to mention using our services to facilitate an ongoing violation of
court orders? The question of the limits of a lawyer's advocacy on behalf of a
domestic violence victim has gone largely unexamined.

   Lawyers who work with domestic violence victims regularly represent clients
who continue to be subjected to physical and sexual violence. These clients
might still be in a relationship with the abuser or may have intended or
undesired contact with the abuser. The abuser continues to perpetrate abuse and
the victim, based on the abuser's prior conduct, knows that she is likely to
suffer further abuse. The lawyer often knows of the ongoing abusive conduct,
although the client does not always disclose this information. n3 The ongoing
abuse can range greatly in its severity, from minor pushing to lethal violence.
We ask if there is a point at which a lawyer should or can reconsider his or her
role in representing the client, especially when the lawyer's advocacy increases
the likelihood of the client's exposure to violence.

   We are particularly concerned with the lawyer's limits, if any, when the
client is making decisions that put her at risk of harm. For the purposes of
this article, we are thinking about the lawyer's boundaries arising in two
related categories: when advocacy facilitates contact with the abuser that might
subject the victim to risk of further violence and when the client requests that
the lawyer assist in circumventing legal processes meant to provide safety to
the victim.

   First, there might be a level or risk of violence to which the client is
exposing herself that would cause a lawyer to reconsider representation of the
client. Most domestic violence attorneys are accustomed to representing clients
who experience ongoing low-or mid-level violence. A typical domestic violence
caseload often also includes some ongoing high-level violence. Is there a level
of risked harm at which the lawyer can question whether the client's directions
accurately represent her interests? Does the lawyer pause when the abuser uses
or  [*210]  poses the risk of extreme violence or potentially lethal violence
and the lawyer's services are helping to facilitate contact between the parties?
Or does the lawyer continue advocacy regardless of the risk to the client? We
are concerned when the client is voluntarily exposing herself to a high risk of
harm, but it is not clear how we should best inform our decision about
representation when the risk arises. In our case study, we knew that Barbara had
ongoing contact with Tom, although Barbara was rarely forthcoming about the type
and frequency of the contact. Given the history of violence in the relationship,
we were constantly concerned about Barbara's safety, but we continued to proceed
on Barbara's directions.

   Second, the lawyer might reconsider representation when the client requests
that her attorney attempt to circumvent or even obstruct legal processes that
are meant to protect the client. The client might ask that the attorney conceal
the abuser's conduct from the court to purposely avoid remedies meant to protect
the client. She may ask that the attorney not disclose the abuser's violation of
court orders. She may request that the attorney advocate against civil court
protections, like issuance of a restraining order, or criminal court
protections, like prosecution, that are meant to provide safety to the victim.
The issue presented by our case study arises when the client asks the lawyer to
advocate that the perpetrator not be prosecuted for an incident of domestic
violence or violating a restraining or a protective order, even when the failure
to prosecute will almost certainly allow for additional violence.

   A lawyer might refuse to provide certain types of advocacy when that advocacy
is likely to bring the client harm. We examine the circumstances that create
sufficient concern for the attorney such that she might establish a boundary in
the representation. The Model Rules of Professional Conduct require that "[a]
lawyer shall abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of
representation, but when can a lawyer deviate from a client's direction." n4

   B. Capacity and Competence

 One exception to the requirement that the lawyer abide by the client's
decisions is provided under Rule 1.14 when the client has "diminished capacity."
n5 Some may question a victim's "capacity" or "competence" to make decisions
involving exposure to harm. This line of questioning implicates our first
inquiry above, namely whether there is a level or risk of violence to which the
client is exposing herself  [*211]  that would cause a lawyer to reconsider
representation of the client. There has been limited discussion of the capacity
and competence of domestic violence victims to make autonomous, rational
decisions and realize those decisions. n6 Society treats a victim's decision as
to whether to leave an abusive relationship as indicative of her capacity or
competence. n7 Some might perceive that a victim "choosing" to stay with an
abuser or have contact with an abuser after separation indicates clouded
judgment.

   While "competence" and "capacity" are similar and often used interchangeably,
n8 they are distinct concepts. Competence, referring to legal competence, means
a legal standard relating to a person's mental ability to understand problems
and make decisions. n9 Competency is required in order to complete a legal task.
n10 To be competent, an individual's capacities or functional abilities must be
sufficient for the legal context in which a decision is being made. n11
Capacity, on the other hand, speaks to an individual's level of psychological
functioning. n12 Psychological or psychiatric evaluations can determine an
individual's capacity to make rational decisions, understand complex concepts,
or  [*212]  understand the nature and effect of one's acts. n13

   Some have argued that domestic violence victims lack competence to make legal
decisions consistent with their values and priorities if they are afraid of
their abusers. n14 This alleged incompetence arguably arises as duress when
victim decision-making is controlled by fear of the abuser and desire to avoid
retaliation. n15 Because of this duress, it is argued that the victim is not
able to make decisions serving her own best interests. n16

   The discussion of victims' ability to make decisions has focused more on
capacity rather than competence. Rule 1.14 n17 considers the messy notion of
"diminished capacity." The Comment to Rule 1.2, which requires that "[a] lawyer
shall abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of
representation," n18 notes that Rule 1.14 controls "in a case in which the
client appears to be suffering diminished capacity... ." n19 Rule 1.14(a) states
that capacity may be diminished "because of minority, mental impairment or for
some other reason." n20 This definition is very broad and could arguably extend
to some victims, especially given the catchall phrase "for some other reason."

   In a case of diminished capacity, the lawyer may take reasonable action to
protect the client. Rule 1.14(b) provides that

 when the lawyer reasonably believes that the client has diminished capacity, is
at risk of substantial physical, financial or other harm unless action is taken
and cannot adequately act in the client's own interest, the lawyer may take
reasonably necessary protective action, including consulting with individuals or
entities that have the ability to take action to protect the client and, in
appropriate cases, seeking the appointment of a guardian ad litem, conservator
or guardian. n21



    Professor Ruth Jones asserts that some domestic violence victims should be
appointed legal guardians due to capacity issues. n22 For Jones, some domestic
violence victims are "unable to act on their own" and "require an intervention
that permits someone else to act on their behalf to protect them from their
abusers until they can protect  [*213]  themselves." n23 She argues that
appointment of a guardian for a victim may be necessary when the abuse has
deprived the victim of the ability to exercise independent judgment. n24 This
guardianship would remain in effect until the abuser's control of the victim is
removed and a victim can make decisions for herself. n25 The guardian could
obtain public benefits and obtain and enforce a restraining order on the
victim's behalf. n26 The guardian could also restrict the victim's contact with
the abuser and petition the court to remove the abuser from the shared residence
or move the victim into separate housing. n27 The desired outcome of the
"aggressive intervention" of a guardianship is for the victim to decide to end
the abusive relationship. n28

   The Court of Appeals of Minnesota addressed the capacity of a domestic
violence victim in a conservatorship case, where the victim refused to seek a
restraining order. In In Re Conservatorship of Barbara J. Frarck, a Minnesota
appellate court upheld the lower court's decision to appoint a conservator for a
domestic violence victim due to incapacity. n29 Barbara Frarck was in an abusive
relationship and suffered from borderline personality disorder. n30 The court
wrote that "despite being physically abused by [her boyfriend], Frarck remains
involved in their relationship" and that the testimony "indicated that if a
conservator were appointed and sought a restraining order, Frarck could be
protected from his abuse." While the court appointed a conservator based on both
the domestic violence and Frarck's mental condition, the court focused more on
the domestic violence in concluding that a conservatorship was appropriate. The
court stated that, "Frarck's continued threats to move in with her boyfriend,
despite his abusive treatment, indicate that she is unable to make rational
decisions about her living arrangements." n31 The court went on to state,
"Without a conservator, there is no legal mechanism to stop the abuse, given
Frarck's refusal to obtain a protective order." n32

   This focus on exiting the relationship as the test of capacity or competency
n33 is highly problematic. A victim's decision as whether to  [*214]  remain
with an abuser or separate cannot be the test of whether a victim is acting
rationally or in her own best interests. n34 Victims are competent, rational
decision-makers, but the nature of abusive relationships limits their choices.
Their options are narrowed by a number of factors, including conditions of the
relationship, economic dependence, and possible consequences for violating the
confines of the relationship as established by the abuser. Absent capacity
issues unrelated to domestic violence, we believe it is inappropriate to:



    take reasonably necessary protective action, including consulting with
individuals or entities that have the ability to take action to protect the
client and, in appropriate cases, seeking the appointment of a guardian ad
litem, conservator or guardian including consulting with individuals or entities
that have the ability to take action to protect the client and, in appropriate
cases, seeking the appointment of a guardian ad litem, conservator or guardian



    under Rule 1.14(b). n35

   C. Limiting or Terminating Representation

 We do not support seeking the appointment of a guardian, as allowed by the
capacity rule, but we question whether there might be some circumstances in
which it would be appropriate to set a boundary on representation. The Model
Rules of Professional Conduct are not particularly helpful in determining what
circumstances permit an attorney to deviate from the general rule that the
attorney must take direction from the client. Under Rule 1.2(d), "A lawyer shall
not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer
knows is criminal or fraudulent." n36 A lawyer cannot, for example, advise a
client to disregard a ruling of the court. n37 Similarly, Rule 1.16 allows an
attorney to seek withdrawal if "the client persists in a course of action
involving the lawyer's services that the lawyer reasonably believes is criminal
or fraudulent" or if "the client has used the lawyer's services to perpetrate a
crime or fraud." n38

   These rules relate to our second inquiry into the problem presented by our
case study, namely whether the lawyer might reconsider representation when the
client requests that her attorney attempt to circumvent or even obstruct legal
processes that are meant to protect the client. What does it mean that the
lawyer's services are  [*215]  used to "perpetrate a crime or fraud?" n39 What
is "a course of conduct involving the lawyer's services that the lawyer
reasonably believes is criminal or fraudulent?" n40 Is it fraudulent to conceal
the abuser's conduct from the court to purposely avoid remedies meant to protect
the client? Is the lawyer obligated to inform the court of the abuser's
violation of restraining and protective orders? In Barbara's case, we told her
that the violations would likely arise and that she would have to testify
truthfully, but we did not take affirmative steps to advise the court of the
violations. Had we done so, Barbara's husband would likely have been
incarcerated. Barbara would have been safer, at the expense of our ignoring our
client's directions.

   For the purpose of this paper, Rule 1.16 raises a more salient question: what
is "a violation of the rules of professional conduct or other law?" n41 Rule
1.16, Declining or Terminating Representation, provides that "a lawyer shall not
represent a client or, where representation has commenced, shall withdraw from
the representation of a client if ... the representation will result in a
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or other law;" n42 and "[a]
lawyer may withdraw from representing a client if withdrawal can be accomplished
without material adverse effect on the interests of the client." n43

   Rule 1.16 also provides that a lawyer may withdraw if "the client insists
upon taking action that the lawyer considers repugnant or with which the lawyer
has a fundamental disagreement." n44 For the purposes of this article, we are
assuming that a lawyer who does not wish to continue to represent a client who
refuses to enforce a restraining order can seek to withdraw pursuant to Rule
1.16(b)(4) of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct if the lawyer considers
this decision to be "repugnant" or fundamentally disagrees with the refusal. n45
It may be that the court will not allow withdrawal. That situation is beyond the
scope of this article.

   One scholar has suggested that in some situations domestic violence lawyers
should break client confidentiality and request outside intervention from law
enforcement or others when the lawyer assesses that a victim is at risk of harm.
n46 For support, she cites Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.6(b)(1), which
provides that "[a] lawyer may reveal information relating to the representation
of a client to the extent  [*216]  the lawyer reasonably believes necessary...to
prevent reasonably certain death or substantial bodily harm." n47 We have never
contemplated going this far outside of the bounds of the attorney-client
relationship. For one, we do not believe that an attorney is in a position to
conduct risk assessments or make such determinations based on "the facts and
circumstances of the case" and the "intuition of the lawyer." n48 That
conclusion, however, says little more than reaffirming our commitment to
confidentiality. It does not answer the thornier question of the lawyer's
responsibility to the client's direction, the client's safety, and the court.

   While we are exploring whether the lawyer must follow the client's directions
when those directions place the client in physical jeopardy, in no way are we
suggesting that the client's directions are not rational. To the contrary, the
problem is accentuated or created by the fact that the client's reasons are
quite rational from one perspective, i.e. economics, but from another
perspective place her in great physical danger.

   III. The Role of Financial Factors and Economic Dependency

 In our case study, financial factors played a predominant role in Barbara's
decision not to report restraining or protective order violations. This is not
unusual. Financial reasons often play a primary role in a victim's decision
about whether to separate from an abuser or seek assistance from the civil or
criminal justice systems. When a victim is not financially independent,
separation or pursuit of criminal remedies can be almost impossible. Economic
dependency is commonly cited as the primary reason victims do not separate from
abusers. n49 Victims can be thrown into poverty when they leave an abusive
relationship. n50

   Domestic violence victims are already financial disempowered simply because
they are women. Women experience discriminatory disadvantage in the paid labor
force. n51 Gender discrimination in employment, including hiring, status, and
compensation, n52 and lack of access  [*217]  to credit economically
disadvantages women. n53 In the home, patriarchy supports men in urging women to
opt out of the paid labor market or devote a greater amount of time to unpaid
domestic labor. Regardless of whether it is a choice or due to pressure from a
male partner, women assume financial losses by taking significantly more time
out of the paid labor market to raise children and by performing more unpaid
domestic chores like cooking, cleaning, and shopping. n54 While men could
compensate women for their domestic labor, or women could seek compensation from
partners for this labor under theories of implied contract n55 or quantum
meruit, n56 this domestic labor remains almost wholly uncompensated. n57

   Economic abuse is present in most domestic violence relationships, which
further compounds gender-related financial disadvantages. Male authority
normalizes men's abuse of female intimate partners and its economic
consequences. n58 Domestic violence relationships  [*218]  tend to follow
traditional gender roles, with the abuser being particularly attached to his
male privilege. n59 An abuser is likely to insist that his female partner carry
most of the responsibility for "womanly tasks" like housekeeping and childcare.
He sees himself as the breadwinner, with breadwinning being central to his sense
of masculinity. n60 When a victim seeks to challenge these gender roles, the
abuser uses controlling or violent behavior to protect his financial dominance,
reinforce his male privilege, or further the power imbalance in the
relationship. Abusers commonly prohibit their partners from pursuing an
education or employment and usually control the financial resources of the
relationship. n61 These behaviors are integral to economic abuse that is
frequently present in domestic violence relationships n62 and restrict a
victim's ability to leave.

   Leaving an abusive relationship is extremely difficult, especially when a
victim has dependent children, few or no job skills, and little or no employment
experience. n63 Class can play a complex role in a victim's decision about her
financial ability to separate from an abuser. Some victims will accept the most
basic of shelter and subsistence. Others seek a home in a good neighborhood,
high quality education for their children, nice cars, vacations, and other
comfortable amenities. n64 Regardless, separation is likely to force a victim
into a lower quality of life. The victim may have to move to a less desirable
neighborhood, leave a job, or give up her childcare. n65 She may lose  [*219]
her ability to buy necessities for herself or her children and may be
disconnected from her support network. n66 Due to the effects of economic
deprivation, she may risk losing custody of her children through child
protective services.

   State intervention can cause additional hardship. An abuser can lose his job
or the prospect of employment due to arrest, prosecution, or incarceration. Lost
employment means that the victim can no longer receive financial support from
the abuser through child support, alimony, or other financial contributions. The
victim's economic dependence on the abuser often makes her reluctant to
prosecute any criminal charges. n67 Victims deliberate whether "they can afford
to prioritize prosecution over other more immediate concerns such as food,
employment, and childcare." n68 In one survey of prosecutors, defense attorneys,
judges, and victim advocates, the "overwhelming reason" given for victims'
reluctance to participate in the criminal system was the financial resources of
the victim and her financial dependence on the abuser. n69 One prosecutor
estimated that victims give a financial reason for wanting to drop the charges
in ninety-nine percent of the cases; another prosecutor estimated that victims
cite financial reasons for requesting that the charges be dropped in fifty
percent of cases. n70

   Within the litany of reasons why domestic violence victims would avoid
criminal justice interventions, financial dependence on the abuser remains the
primary reason that victims opt out. n71 Research reveals the significant
financial impact incarceration has on families, regardless of the reason for the
incarceration. As early as 1928, families of incarcerated individuals were found
to have suffered financially  [*220]  "to the point of scarcely being able to
'eke out an existence.'" n72 Today, any parent's incarceration creates
significant economic deprivation to families. n73 This deprivation is largely
due to the loss of income that the incarcerated parent may have provided to the
family but also includes lost "informal contributions" like child care, social
support, and the purchase of toys and diapers. n74

   Incarceration can compromise the well-being of family members and require
family members to make sacrifices. Custodial parents may have less time or money
to invest in their children. n75 They may be required to take on additional
employment which results in increased child care costs. Older children may be
required to leave school and enter the job market to supplement household
income. n76 In addition, the loss of a parent and the financial difficulties
that result from incarceration can cause children to suffer from a range of
emotional, psychological, and behavioral problems. n77

   State intervention can create a quagmire that pits a victim's interests in
financial security against her interests in safety. Thus many victims are put in
the position of "choosing" between financial support from the abuser and state
intervention. We do not suggest that a victim is truly "choosing" between
economic security and physical safety. The choices available to domestic
violence victims are limited and complicated by coercion, the threat of harm,
and imperfect options, and we use the notion of "choice" guardedly. Our case
study offers an opportunity to examine the "choice" of financial security over
self-protection when reporting domestic violence incidents and violations of
restraining and protective orders would negatively impact a victim's financial
security. Further inquiry into criminal justice policies regarding domestic
violence reveals why a victim might "choose" financial security over personal
safety.

[*221]

   IV. Other Reasons Why Domestic Violence Victims Opt Out of Court Protections

   A. The Criminal Justice System and Mandatory Policies

 Victims may be reluctant to enlist the assistance of the police or the criminal
justice system because that system and its consequences are largely out of their
control. Reporting an incident of domestic violence or violation of a
restraining or protective order operationalizes the criminal justice system. All
fifty states treat a violation of a civil restraining order as a criminal
matter. n78 In our case study, Barbara asked us to advocate to stop to criminal
proceedings. In one instance, she asked us to intervene with the prosecutor to
not pursue charges against Tom. In another, she begged us to persuade the family
court judge to not act on Tom's violation of the restraining order. Throughout
the relationship, Barbara claimed that her domestic violence injuries resulted
from all manners of clumsiness so as to avoid the possibility of prosecution.
Barbara's situation is hardly unusual. Mandatory arrest and prosecution,
warrantless arrest, and other problems with the criminal justice system lead
many victims to try to "opt out" of criminal remedies.

   Mandatory arrest and mandatory prosecution policies drive state intervention
in domestic violence situations in many jurisdictions. n79 Mandatory arrest
policies require law enforcement to make an arrest when there is probable cause
to believe that domestic violence has occurred, regardless of the victim's
preferences. n80 Mandatory prosecution policies require the prosecutor to pursue
charges against the abuser if there is evidence of a crime of domestic violence
regardless of the victim's desire to pursue prosecution. n81 Even in
jurisdictions without mandatory intervention policies, the state's interests and
concerns  [*222]  supplant those of the victim.

   These policies can play a substantial role in a victim's decision about
whether to involve police or the criminal court. In a mandatory arrest or
prosecution jurisdiction, if a victim reports a domestic violence incident or a
restraining or protective order violation, the state moves toward arrest and
prosecution, even if arrest or prosecution are not favored by the victim or in
the victim's best interests. Even in jurisdictions that do not follow mandatory
arrest or prosecution policies, reporting an incident of domestic violence or
violation of a restraining or protective order often will initiate state
involvement.

   Policy arguments over whether mandatory policies are the right approach to
domestic violence are heated. Proponents of mandatory policies argue that
mandatory policies are necessary because they require otherwise reluctant
prosecutors to follow through with prosecution; n82 ensure uniform treatment of
domestic violence crimes even when the victim does not cooperate or want the
criminal case to proceed; n83 remove the burden of choosing whether to prosecute
from the victim;" n84 and reduce racial discrimination in the criminal justice
system by seeking to ensure that all perpetrators, regardless of race, are
treated similarly. n85

   Opponents of mandatory intervention believe that these policies do not serve
the larger goal of ending domestic violence, deny the needs of individual
victims, and even replace the control of the abuser with the control of the
state. n86 Opponents are concerned that these universally applied strategies do
not account for the reasons women stay in abusive relationships; n87 ignore
superseding financial, cultural, or emotional issues; n88 force a decision on
victims without taking into account their individual needs; n89 and disempower
victims and strip them of their autonomy. n90

   Warrantless arrest in domestic violence cases also creates situations in
which cases may be pursued against victim wishes. Prior to  [*223]  the domestic
violence movement's legal reform efforts, n91 the typical police response to
domestic violence was to tell the husband or boyfriend to "take a walk around
the block." n92 Police often did not have the legal authority to make an arrest
at the scene of a domestic violence crime. n93 That era has ended. Now all fifty
states allow an officer to make a warrantless arrest when the officer has
probable cause to believe that an abuser has committed a misdemeanor or violated
a restraining order. n94 This means that the criminal justice system can be
operationalized even if a domestic violence victim does not report an incident
or call the police. A neighbor's phone call could be enough to initiate arrest
or prosecution.

   Involving the criminal system can have other negative consequences for
victims, including sanctions when a victim has contact with an abuser who is
subject to a restraining order. Victims have been held criminally liable for
aiding and abetting an abuser in violating a restraining order when the victim
has had contact with the abuser. n95 Victims have also been held in contempt for
having contact with an abuser when a restraining order is in effect. One
Kentucky judge held two different victims in contempt for having contact with an
abuser who was subject to a restraining order. n96 The judge fined one victim $
100 and the other $ 200 as a penalty for contempt. n97 Other  [*224]  judges in
Kentucky have incarcerated women because they contacted their husbands while a
restraining order was in effect. n98

   Victims may be compelled to participate in criminal proceedings against their
will by subpoena, threatened incarceration, or other means. n99 For example, in
State v. Finney, n100 the prosecutor subpoenaed the victim - who had been raped
by her husband - and then threatened her with arrest if she failed to testify.
During her compelled testimony, the victim indicated that she had been harassed
and intimidated by the prosecutor. She stated that she did not want to testify
but that she was afraid not to and believed the prosecutor would ensure she was
arrested immediately after leaving the courtroom for her failure to testify.
n101 In Tejeda v. State, n102 the trial court judge ordered the victim to remain
in the courtroom in case the court needed her and stated, "If you leave, you'll
be in contempt of Court and I'll have you put in jail." n103 The court also
threatened that the court and the police would not assist her in the future as a
result of her reluctance to testify. n104

   Victims may experience penalties or harassment from the criminal system for
"recanting" or committing perjury. n105 In State v. Spraggins, the victim
requested that charges be dismissed and asserted that her earlier statement
about a domestic violence incident was false. n106 The victim was subpoenaed to
testify, and during cross-examination of the victim, the trial court stated in
the presence of the jury, "So let me see if I've got this all straight. We're
here trying this case because you are a liar. Is that correct? Do you want to
answer the question yes or no? We are here going through this, trying this case
because you are a liar, is that correct?" n107 In State v. Hancock, the wife
recanted at trial despite prior written and videotaped statements to the
contrary. n108 The trial court threatened to send her to prison for five years
for perjury and went on to say, "So, either he goes or you go, what is it going
to be. You got kids?... What is it going to be? Who is going to jail,  [*225]
you or him?" n109

   It is no wonder that victims try to opt out of the protections provided by
the criminal justice system. "Attrition dismissal rates" in domestic violence
cases are extremely high. n110 A series of studies have shown that victims fail
to participate in criminal cases arising from domestic violence in about 60% to
80% of cases. n111 Such attrition may occur as a result of a victim dropping
charges or recanting. n112 Other modes of noncooperation include failure to
cooperate with the police, sign the complaint, meet with the prosecutor, and
appear at court hearings. n113 One study found that judges, lawyers, and other
court personnel perceive that 56% of domestic violence victims will only testify
if subpoenaed, n114 that 31% of victims change their minds about the abuser's
guilt, and 31% undermine the prosecution's case. n115 Experts on domestic
violence - including psychologists, counselors, law enforcement officers,
shelter employees, and victim advocates - regularly testify that it is common
for domestic violence victims to recant. n116

   Many victims eschew criminal system involvement by trying to avoid
intervention at all. A staggering amount of domestic violence goes unreported.
One study indicated that 55% of intimate violence is never reported to the
police. n117 Another study found that less than 10% of seriously injured victims
report abuse to the police and even fewer report if they are endangered by but
escape serious injury. n118 In yet another study, about 47% of victims tried to
opt out of the criminal  [*226]  system before the case was even brought to the
attention of the prosecutor's office. n119 Victims are instead turning to the
family law system where they are requesting civil restraining orders in droves.
n120 Violation of this civil remedy often results in criminal prosecution, a
consequence that may be unintended and unknown by many victims.

   The high rates of victim nonparticipation in the criminal justice system are
unsettling and indicate the problematic nature of the system for domestic
violence victims. The victim may not want to involve the criminal justice system
because the system does not meet her needs. n121 If the system successfully
addressed domestic violence, victim engagement would be more prevalent. n122 The
criminal justice system has emerged as the primary domestic violence
intervention strategy, n123 but it is failing victims.

   Victims may avoid the criminal justice system because of how they are treated
by judges, lawyers, and other court personnel. Victims who do not cooperate or
do not separate from the abuser are viewed by some judges and lawyers as
"pathetic, stupid, or even deserving of the abuse." n124 Those who do cooperate
are seen by these same actors as "vindictive, crazy, or falsely charging
domestic violence to meet their own selfish needs." n125

   Other factors may deter involvement. Victims who may otherwise seek
intervention might not bother contacting law enforcement because of low arrest
rates for domestic violence incidents. n126 Victims may not participate because
they may not perceive the conduct as criminal or abusive or believe that it is a
personal matter. n127 They may not understand how the system works or may have
logistical barriers  [*227]  such as not having transportation, time, money, or
childcare. n128 They may fear that the abuser will retaliate by reporting the
victim to child protective services and alleging abuse, neglect, or substance
abuse. n129 Post-traumatic stress disorder created by the abuse may make it
difficult or impossible to cooperate. n130

   Race, culture, and sexual orientation may also play a role in a victim's
decision as to whether to enlist the criminal justice system. n131 Victims may
choose not to call the police due to racism in law enforcement or because of a
community ethic against state intervention. n132 Women of color are less likely
to have contact with a prosecutor, want to press charges, or want prosecution
than white women. n133 (Barbara and Tom are both white). Gay, lesbian, and
transgender victims may avoid the criminal system because of prior negative
experiences with law enforcement or the courts or due to fear of reprisals from
the system. n134

   While we are focusing on economic issues and problems arising from criminal
justice system intervention, we do not want to ignore other factors - including
fear of retaliation, risks due to immigrant status, and love for or attachment
to the abuser - that may feature prominently in a victim's decision about
whether to enforce a restraining or protective order or report an act of
domestic violence. At the risk of raising new questions that we do not attempt
to answer, we briefly address issues related to separation assault, immigration
and immigrant status, and the role of love or attachment, all of which must be
considered to grasp the complexity of the issues facing a domestic violence
victim.

   B. Retaliation

 An abused woman may decide not to involve the criminal justice system because
of the abuser's threat of violence or the victim's fear of retaliation. n135
When a victim separates or decides to separate from  [*228]  her abuser, the
risk of violence escalates, especially if the couple was cohabitating. n136 This
"separation assault" is "the particular assault on a woman's body and volition
that seeks to block her from leaving, retaliate for her departure, or forcibly
end the separation." n137 Domestic violence is most likely to become lethal when
a victim separates from her abuser. n138 In 56% of intimate partner femicide (or
the murder of women) cases, the abuser and victim were living apart on the day
of the murder. n139 Separation was the "immediate precipitating factor" in 45%
of intimate partner femicides. n140 Victims will often postpone leaving the
abuser fearing separation assault n141 and will only choose to separate or
pursue criminal justice protections if it seems possible or safe to do so. n142
Additionally, the victim may be terrified that the abuser will harm her, family
members, or loved ones if she pursues criminal remedies. n143

   C. Immigration and Immigrant Status

 Noncitizen women are even less likely than citizens to involve the criminal
justice system because of cultural beliefs, language limitations, or other
barriers. n144 Immigrant women tend to feel more pressure to live up to cultural
ideals and fear that separation is disloyal to  [*229]  their culture and will
lead to community stigmatization or sanctions. n145 A victim might not be able
to speak or be literate in English, and interpretation in the woman's language
may not be available through the criminal justice system. n146 Immigrant women
also face greater financial risks in separating from an abusive partner. n147

   Immigrant victims rarely call the police, n148 in part because of possible
immigration consequences for their non-citizen abusers. A conviction for
domestic violence or violating a restraining order is a removable offense,
meaning that the abuser can be deported on that basis. n149 For some victims,
removal of the abuser is a positive development that lowers or eliminates the
risk of future violence. n150 Others do not want to begin a course of conduct
that may result in the abuser being deported. If the abuser is the parent of the
victim's children, the victim may not want to sever the parent-child
relationship through the abuser's removal. The victim may be receiving financial
support from the abuser through child support, alimony, or other means, and the
abuser's deportation would mean almost certain cessation of that support.
Finally, for emotional reasons, the victim may not want the abuser to suffer
such a severe penalty as removal. n151

   A victim may choose not to report abuse fearing her own adverse immigration
consequences. n152 Undocumented victims assume an element of risk when
interacting with law enforcement. n153 Some jurisdictions,  [*230]  like
Arizona, require law enforcement to verify the immigration status of any person
suspected of being undocumented. n154 While other jurisdictions do not inquire
about the immigration status of victims, n155 every time a victim interacts with
law enforcement there is some chance that she will come to the attention of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

   D. Love and Attachment

 Love or attachment can be controlling factors in a victim's decision whether to
report an abuser's behavior or terminate the relationship. n156 Victims are
often emotionally attached to their abusers and sometimes do not want to see
them incarcerated or punished. These emotions can lead to continuing contact or
a relationship with the abuser. Victims may rationalize the abusers' behavior,
attributing it to substance abuse or a troubled childhood. n157 Reporting
abusive conduct or terminating contact with the abuser may require the victim to
give up a fantasy of a healthy relationship with the abuser. n158 The role of
love in a victim's decision even can trump economic factors in a victim's
decision about whether to separate or report abuse. n159 As one prosecutor
stated, "They love the person. They're afraid that going forward will break up
their relationship, and most of the time they don't want to break up." n160

   It is from within this morass that victims ask their attorneys to advocate or
not advocate on their behalf, or to pick and choose from possible remedies. When
the victim is faced with so many potential negative consequences, it is no
wonder that victims ask their attorneys to help them avoid state intervention
even when their safety is at risk. The lawyer is left to question whether she
should engage in the requested advocacy (or non-advocacy) and if it is ethically
or morally responsible to do so. We turn to the issue of different lawyering
models  [*231]  for guidance about how an attorney might approach a
victim-client's decision.

   There are different views on how lawyers approach clients and issues. We
believed, and continue to believe, in "client-centered lawyering." We might have
treated this issue differently if we were "cause lawyers." It may be helpful to
consider what it means to be a client-centered lawyer or a cause lawyer in the
context of a domestic violence case.

   V. Different Lawyering Models: Client-Centered Lawyering and Cause Lawyering

   A. Client-Centered Lawyering

 Starting in the late 1970s, lawyers and law school clinics started to move from
a traditional lawyer-client relationship to an alternative "client-centered
model," n161 encouraging lawyers and law students to develop meaningful
relationships n162 with their clients and depart from a traditionally
paternalistic and adversarial approach to litigation. n163 Over time,
client-centered lawyering has increasingly focused on treating the client
holistically, emphasizing problem-solving, and not just the client's immediate
case." n164

   Client-centered lawyering has four primary components:



    (1) it draws attention to the critical importance of non-legal aspects of a
client's situation; (2) it places the lawyer's role in the representation within
limitations set by a sharply circumscribed view of the lawyer's professional
expertise; (3) it insists on the primacy of client decision-making; and (4) it
places a high value on the lawyers' understanding their clients' perspectives,
emotions and values. n165



    Client-centered lawyering seeks to place the client in control of the
[*232]  attorney-client relationship and decision-making. Client-centered
lawyering is a model that "puts the attorney in the role of an open, accepting
helper and leaves both priority-setting and decision-making to the client. The
lawyer helps the client determine what is best for him in light of his own
priorities." n166 In client-centered counseling, "the emphasis is on achieving
the greatest client satisfaction." n167

   This model represents a diversion from the traditional paternalistic,
attorney-knows-best role that many attorneys adopt, where the decision-making is
based upon the attorney's knowledge, priorities, and beliefs, rather than the
client's interests. n168 Client-centered lawyering advocates suggest that the
adversarial legal system encourages attorneys to make choices on behalf of their
clients that are strategically wise, while failing to recognize the client's
interest in participating in decision-making. Advocates believe the traditional
approach is a product of the adversarial legal system and the approach toward
lawyering that was taught in law school. In contrast, in a client-centered
lawyering relationship, "the client does not perceive himself as, and is not, an
instrument to be manipulated by the lawyer." n169 A client of a client-centered
lawyer "directs his own destiny, relying on the lawyer as a helper and as a
guide through the legal labyrinths." n170 This model "emphasizes autonomy and
individual growth" for the client. n171

   Under the client-centered model, mutual trust between the parties will
empower the client to assume the dominant role of decision-maker, and the
attorney can adopt a more passive role as the client's counselor. n172 The
responsibility and ability to develop mutual trust between the lawyer and client
rests entirely on the attorney, who is traditionally seen as being in control of
the relationship. The lawyer should place himself or herself in the client's
position, attempting to understand the client's situation and emotions. n173

   A client-centered lawyer helps the client select the best course of action,
rather than merely outlining the options and instructing the client to pick the
path of his choice. Many scholars writing about client-centered lawyering use
the term "holistic" to describe the lawyer's  [*233]  role within this model.
n174 The lawyer remains neutral and serves as a resource to the client during
his decision-making process. n175

   While this model is intended to allow the client to make all decisions
autonomously, involving the lawyer only when necessary, some scholars believe
this cannot work in practice. n176 One critic argues that the differences
between the client-centered and traditional models are nonexistent when applied
to everyday lawyering:



    The client-centered literature fails to present even a single example in
which a lawyer sits down with a client and walks through alternative case
theories and their implications for the case and client. In this respect, the
client-centered approach differs little from the traditional approach, which
relegates virtually every decision about case theory to lawyers. n177



    Other critics argue that clients are not in the best position to make legal
decisions. Instead, when a client hires you, he demonstrates "tacit willingness
for you to make lawyering skills decisions free from consultation" with them.
n178

   The difficulty is in the execution. Professor Jane Stoever writes about
teaching her students to be "client-centered and client-empowering advocates who
provide representation that enhances both a survivors' safety and autonomy."
n179 Implicit in client-centered lawyering is that the client may reach a
different decision than the lawyer. Having fostered that autonomy, what do we do
when autonomy and safety diverge? Professors Susan Bryant and Maria Arias also
discuss empowering their clinic's domestic violence clients as part of the
clinic's design. n180 Professors Bryant and Arias note that a client-centered
approach "allows the students to see patterns of oppression and...recognize the
uniqueness of each client's situation." n181 They discuss a case in which the
students determined that the client wanted to file court papers seeking custody
and a restraining order, which the  [*234]  students prepared, but the client
missed her appointment to sign the papers. The students later learned through a
social worker that the client, while afraid of her husband, was not ready to
pursue a legal remedy. n182 Professors Bryant and Arias note that the clinic's
client empowerment "allows the client to participate in defining what a lawyer's
role should be," n183 and that in such a relationship, the lawyer's role
"changes with each client because the lawyer alone does not set the professional
boundaries." n184

   Professor Michelle Jacobs endorses client-based lawyering as a good model for
students, but states that a major weakness is the failure to address race,
class, and (to a lesser extent) gender in the attorney/client relationship. n185
Professor Jacobs argues that the purpose of client-centered lawyering as a model
is to "return the client to the centrality of the lawyer's work," but that
clients, particularly clients of color (and women?) are still at the margins of
the relationship. n186 She reminds us that everyone - including lawyers, law
students, and law professors - have preconceived notions rooted in our cultural
background. n187

   In the domestic violence arena, our preconceived notions often center on our
difficulty in accepting that a victim of domestic violence remains with her
abuser. A great deal of the literature on domestic violence tries to answer the
question, "Why do abused women stay?" As lawyers, we translate that question to
"What can we do to help our client leave?" As Professor Jacobs points out, only
when we see the client's reality can we truly work with the client in a
collaborative way. n188

   Putting aside our preconceived notions does not answer our question of
limits, i.e. is there a point at which we cannot assist the client in relation
to the court or her own risky behavior, but it does move us further down the
road. In our case study, this was the single most important factor in acting as
we did.

   B. Cause Lawyering

 As Austin Sarat and Stuart Scheingold have noted, "providing a single, cross
culturally valid definition of the concept [of cause lawyering]  [*235]  is
impossible." n189 Writing on the intersections of race, space, and poverty, John
Calmore writes that "cause lawyering encompasses various law-related activities,
from rights assertion to legal counseling, that relies on law-related means to
achieve social justice for individuals and subordinated or disadvantaged
groups." n190 Stuart Scheingold n191 describes cause lawyering as
"left-activist." n192 Richard Abel writes that "the moments when law offers
leverage to the relatively powerless as well as those when it is wielded, or
trumped, by power" are "occasions for cause lawyering," n193 and Thomas Hilbink,
reviewing Sarat and Scheingold, comments on the definitional difficulty, noting
that "belief in a cause and a desire to advance that cause are the forces that
drive cause lawyering actions" for cause lawyers, but "how does one determine
what fits within the rubric?" n194 Ann Southworth, one of the few scholars who
has examined the right's response to the historic left-leaning cause lawyering,
shows that the "cause" in cause lawyering can be broad indeed, and virtually
every progressive cause lawyer now has a conservative counterpart. n195 Today,
for every cause, we can be confident that there are cause lawyers on every side
of the issue.

   Cause lawyering in the field of domestic violence can take a variety of
approaches. Karen Czapanskiy notes that "women lawyers and law professors were
the first to construct the issue as a legal problem," partly as a consequence of
the identification of the battering of women as an issue affecting women's
liberation. Feminist women lawyers were instrumental in developing the theory
and legal regime addressing domestic violence issues. n196 These efforts took a
variety of forms, including criminal defense, n197 family law in both legal
services  [*236]  offices n198 and private practice, n199 and state and federal
legislative efforts to establish governmental intervention on behalf of domestic
violence victims, a remarkably successful effort resulting in restraining order
statutes and other protections in every state, n200 as well as the passage of
the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 1994 and reauthorizations in 2000,
2005, and 2013. n201

   Still, today's domestic violence lawyers may agree on the cause, but not
necessarily the approach. Twenty years after Professor Czapanskiy emphasized
their seminal role, feminist attorneys still play a major role in representing
individual clients in domestic violence cases, but the advocacy community is
split into those who support and those who oppose mandatory arrest.

   Mandatory arrest and no-drop prosecutions have placed prosecutors in a more
prominent role. As Deborah Epstein has noted, activists have focused on
"transforming the responses of police, prosecutors, and the courts." n202 Legal
reforms include warrantless arrest, mandatory arrest, no-drop prosecutions, and
temporary orders with substantial implications and few procedural protections.
n203

   Donna Wills, a veteran family violence prosecutor in Los Angeles, has written
that she "firmly believes" that an aggressive no-drop and no-dismissal policy
"is the enlightened approach to domestic violence prosecutions." n204 Wills
approaches domestic violence through a cause lawyer's lens, stating that it is a
societal problem, not just an individual or private problem, with a strong State
interest in maintaining public safety. In focusing on the State interest, Wills
expands the protective umbrella to include children as secondary victims. n205
To Wills (and other supporters of mandatory arrest and no-drop policies), these
policies prevent batterers from controlling the justice system through their
victims. n206 Under this approach, the domestic violence victim is best
protected by having no power, with decision-making resting with the State, in
the form of the police and prosecutor.

    [*237]  As Wills admits, there is no evidence that mandatory arrest and
no-drop policies reduce the incidence of domestic violence. n207 Betsy Tsai, a
Domestic Violence Resource Coordinator for the New York City Courts, notes that
criminal justice system employees are "frustrated and embarrassed by their
inability to protect victims of domestic violence," and suggests that the court
system should look toward specialized domestic violence courts. n208 The
specialized courts incorporate therapeutic jurisprudence, a multidisciplinary
effort to provide comprehensive services. n209 Therapeutic jurisprudence is a
reaction to the inevitable mental health and psychological functioning of the
participants in the legal system. n210 In practice, a therapeutic approach would
include a supportive and informative environment to the victim, victim and
witness advocates, police training, more careful monitoring of defendant
compliance with court orders, and participation in intervention programs for
abusers. n211 This does not mean that the victim regains control of the
decisions that so dramatically affect her life. In many jurisdictions employing
a therapeutic jurisprudence system, the State, not the victim, controls the
case. n212

   VI. When Private Rights Become Public and Courts Intervene

 In the Mary Adkins/Elizabeth Tulis g-chat, Elizabeth Tulis wrote that "once you
enter the criminal law system, it's not just the interest of the victim, but of
society that is at issue. Going into the system, you marshal the resources of
the state to protect you, but you also cede some control of the case to the
State." Mary and Elizabeth raise the question of whether private rights become
public once a victim seeks state intervention. Does society have an independent
interest in enforcing the restraining order?

   Courts have allowed the public interest to transcend private choices,
including forced feeding in prisons n213 and forced medical care to children,
even in the face of religious opposition by the child's parents. n214 The
commonality in these cases is the likelihood of harm, and the public interest in
preventing that harm. The question, when it  [*238]  comes to domestic violence
cases, is the extent to which we are comfortable predicting future violence, and
whether or not our conclusions should affect our representation of clients who
are at risk. In the area of domestic violence, the rationale behind mandatory
arrest policies and forced testimony combines the notions of many of the themes
of this paper, including a patronizing view of protecting the victim from her
inability to protect herself, a reformist attitude of treating all cases
uniformly, the criminalization of domestic violence, and the transfer of
decision-making to the State. Does State involvement, either through civil or
criminal process, turn a private domestic violence matter into a public issue?

   As we discussed earlier, several courts have sanctioned women or forced them
to testify when the women refused to cooperate with the State in pursuing
domestic violence remedies or testifying in criminal matters. Implicit in these
decisions is a belief that the right to withdraw from civil or criminal
prosecution has been supplanted by State interests. To get a sense of judicial
reasoning in domestic violence cases, it helps to look at death penalty cases,
where the issue of public rights trumping the private attorney-client
relationship has arisen prominently.

   In 1987, a Connecticut court sentenced Michael Ross to death, after he
confessed to murdering eight women. n215 He fought execution for seventeen
years, but ultimately withdrew all appeals and requested that the execution go
forward, n216 starting a new proceeding questioning whether a defendant can
rationally and competently choose to die, and whether the public has a right to
contest an execution. The Chief Public Defender's office sought to intervene in
Ross's case, arguing that Ross was trying to commit "judicial, state-assisted
suicide," an argument based on Ross's alleged incompetence to make the decision
to consent to the execution. n217 Ross's former lawyer, the Office of the Public
Defender, argued that Ross's execution would make executions "more socially and
politically" acceptable, an issue of great importance to the Public Defender's
other clients facing execution. n218

   The Public Defender's prediction was almost certainly factually  [*239]
correct, but this is not how attorneys usually act. Rule 1.9(1) of the Model
Rules of Professional Conduct n219 explicitly prohibited the Public Defender
from representing an interest adverse to Ross, and Rule 1.9(2) explicitly
prohibited using information obtained during representation against Ross's
interests. n220 How, then, could the Public Defender use its knowledge of Ross's
mental condition as the basis for legal actions that, in the words of Ross's
subsequent attorney, T.R. Paulding, "are contrary to the defendant's wishes or
desires"? n221 The answer - and this is not much of an answer - is that some
issues raise public as well as private rights.

   Ross understood the incongruous nature of the proceedings, stating on his web
site that "I fully support their position and efforts to bring about the
abolition of capital punishment in this state...But, I do have a problem when
they interfere with my personal decisions...to resolve this case in a manner
that I believe will harm the least number of people... .These are decisions that
I and I alone, must make." n222 Ross objected to the actions of the Public
Defender, stating "what I'm hoping is that January 26, I will be executed. I
just don't understand why the public defenders can't understand that. I mean,
it's so simple. And it's my damned decision." n223

   Ross's sister and father each filed separate next-friend actions, his sister
arguing that Ross was not mentally competent to waive his rights, and his father
arguing that his rights were being violated because he could not "volunteer" to
be executed. n224 The case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Robert Chatigny,
who raised concerns about the competency claims. n225 Paulding argued that Ross
understood the appeals process, was knowledgeable about death penalty law, and
was choosing to forego appeals. n226 He stated that Ross "had made a logical,
rational decision. He needed a voice in our court system...I think I'm an
attorney before I'm a defense attorney... .I think your duty, your basic duty as
an attorney, is to represent your client." n227

   Judge Chatigny tried to persuade Paulding to pursue an appeal  [*240]
despite Ross's expressed wishes of his client, n228 telling him, "what you are
doing is terribly, terribly wrong. No matter how well motivated you are, you
have a client whose competence is in serious doubt and you don't know what you
are talking about," n229 that failure to pursue an appeal was malpractice, n230
and threatening to go after Paulding's license to practice law if future
evidence showed that Ross was not competent. n231 Paulding got the message, and
filed motions for another competency hearing in state court. The state court
held that Ross was mentally competent to waive future appeals and proceed to his
execution. n232 He was executed on May 13, 2005. n233

   In 1996, the New Jersey Supreme Court, considering a similar question,
explicitly transformed the defendant's rights into a public question, holding
that appeals of a death sentence were mandatory and could not be waived, n234
stating that the public interest "transcends the preferences of individual
defendants." n235 Like Ross, John Martini requested that his execution proceed
as scheduled and that his public defender not pursue post-conviction relief. In
proceeding with a post-conviction review, the court noted that:



    It is difficult to explain why a murderer who has admitted his guilt and had
his conviction and sentence of death affirmed on direct appeal should not be
granted his request to be executed immediately. For some, no explanation may be
necessary. For others, no explanation will suffice. For those who wish to
understand, we explain that under our form of government it is not the inmate on
death row or the accused who determines when and whether the State shall execute
a prisoner; rather, the law itself makes that determination. The public has an
interest in the reliability and integrity of a death sentencing decision that
transcends the preferences of individual defendants. n236



    The court recognized that its view was not universal:



    We acknowledge that other jurisdictions do not recognize the standing of one
such as the Public Defender to prosecute a post-conviction  [*241]  relief
application on behalf of a death row inmate who does not seek their assistance.
It is a natural reaction for some to wish to be rid of an admitted murderer who
asks to be executed. The Court is nonetheless required to ensure the integrity
of death sentences in New Jersey. n237



    Martini changed his mind, and requested that his Public Defender pursue any
available remedies. n238 He was subsequently convicted of three additional
murders in Pennsylvania and Arizona. n239 On July 26, 2006, the New Jersey
Supreme Court upheld Martini's death sentence, but New Jersey had imposed a
moratorium on the death penalty six months earlier. n240 Martini died in prison
in 2009. n241

   Are public rights implicated in domestic violence cases? As Elizabeth Tulis
noted, when a victim obtains a restraining order, not to mention a protective
order, she cedes some authority to the State. Do we, as lawyers, cede a part of
our relationship with our clients?

   We are trained as lawyers to separate ourselves from the consequences to
third parties of our representation. Criminal defense attorneys accept that they
are representing the accused, not the victim, society, or the hypothetical
future victim. Attorneys representing a parent in a dependency and neglect case
take direction from the parent, regardless of qualms about the child's future
care. In domestic violence cases, we accept that there are valid reasons why
women do not leave the abuser, and that additional abuse may, and often does,
occur during the representation. There is a different quality to a case in which
a client is using the lawyer's legal services to avoid a court order meant to
protect her. Is there a point at which this becomes a public right, enforceable
by the state?

   While it is rare, victims, having obtained restraining orders, have been
charged with violating those orders, while some courts have struck down the
charges against the victim as a violation of the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. n242 The analogy to  [*242]  death cases may be useful on
a lethality scale, but falters when considering the competing interests of the
victim. When law enforcement intervenes and penalizes the victim for violating a
restraining order against her abuser, the focus of the legal system shifts from
the abuser to the victim and "the abuser is not held fully accountable." n243
The victim is prosecuted for inviting her abuser back into her life - often for
a legitimate purpose, such as to discuss childcare or request financial
assistance. n244

   When a civil restraining order can be enforced against either party, the
purposes of the restraining order system are undermined. Victims will be less
likely to report abuse for fear any action on theirs will be used against them;
abusers could use the restraining orders as continued ploys against their
battered victims; and the blame for the abuse shifts from the batterer to the
battered.

   In the abstract, the public enforcement of restraining orders, like mandatory
arrest policies, has advantages. However, in the context of domestic violence,
the public's interest in the victim's well-being is not so black and white. The
enforcement of the restraining order may serve the public good of protecting the
victim, but if the means necessary for that enforcement further victimizes the
battered woman and provides a disincentive for victims to report abuse at all,
then we need to question whether the benefit of enhanced enforcement outweighs
the inherent value of client-based decision-making.

   We are concerned about our clients' safety and we try to advise them as best
we can, but we are not in the business of predicting future harm. Others,
however, are. Predicting behavior and lethality assessments are increasingly a
part of law enforcement and safety planning, and it is useful to take a look at
this field.

   VII. Risk and Lethality Assessment and the Predictability of Violence (and
Does It Matter?)

 Legal scholars have devoted a good deal of effort to the question of character
evidence and how it can help predict behavior. Much of the discussion starts
with G.W. Allport, a psychologist, a founder of "trait theory." Allport believed
that traits were the most fundamental building blocks of personality. n245 Trait
theorists believed that traits were stable and enduring, and produced generally
consistent behavior  [*243]  over a variety of situations. n246 In the realm of
trait theory, a person who lies in one situation will lie in other situations; a
person who is violent in one circumstance will likely be violent in other
circumstances. n247 Trait theory would allow us to predict behavior, including
criminal behavior.

   Empirical research did not support the trait theorists. n248 Walter Mischel
found that "behavior depends on stimulus situations and is specific to the
situation: response patterns even in highly similar situations often fail to be
strongly related." n249 However, between 1968 and 1995, Mischel, along with his
colleague, Yuichi Shoda, modified his views on character traits and
predictability. Mischel and Shoda assert that we can develop a fuller
personality profile that includes a variety of psychological ingredients, one
that could successfully predict particularized behavior. n250

   More recently, Professor Edward Imwinkelried asserted that most recent
studies agree that predicting behavior based on interactions between character
traits and situations is more accurate than predictions based on either traits
or situations. n251 Since legal scholarship on predictability revolves around
the admissibility in court of character evidence, a theory "more accurate" is
different from "more likely than not," and is not going to result in
reconsidering long-standing rules of evidence. The question here, however, is
whether predictability should inform our representation of vulnerable clients.

   Domestic violence is a subset within the broader category of violent crime.
Many people, including members of Congress, believe that crimes of sexual
violence and child molestation deserve special treatment. To the chagrin of many
judges, lawyers, and scholars, Congress amended the Federal Rules of Evidence to
allow the admission of past similar acts in criminal cases in which the
defendant is accused of sexual assault n252 or child molestation, n253 and to
allow the admission of past similar actions for civil actions involving sexual
assault or child  [*244]  molestation. n254 In a Report submitted to Congress in
1995, the Judicial Conference requested that Congress reconsider Rules 413, 414,
and 415, reporting overwhelming opposition. Two years later, Katharine Baker
wrote that "Advocates of Rule 413...unabashedly and without proof suggest that
rapists are more likely than other criminals to repeat their acts. The evidence
that we have is to the contrary." n255 According to studies by the Bureau of
Justice Statistics, recidivism for drug offenses, larceny/theft, burglary, and
robbery are all much higher than rape, sexual assault, and child molestation. In
fact, only homicide is lower. n256

   That did not deter Congress or the State legislatures of California and
Illinois, both of which amended their rules of evidence to allow prior acts of
domestic violence in cases in which the victim was murdered. n257 California
acted in response to the O.J. Simpson acquittal and Illinois just prior to the
Scott Peterson trial, which culminated in a conviction.

   The history of predicting criminal behavior is, at best, a cautionary tale.
The ancient Greeks, including Aristotle, believed in physiognomy, the ability to
predict human character by physical appearance. In the 19th Century,
phrenologists believed they could predict future criminal behavior by certain
bumps on an individual's head. Phrenology was considered by many intellectuals
to be a real science. Bram Stoker in Dracula and Arthur Conan Doyle in The
Adventures of Sherlock Holmes both refer to phrenology with approval. No less
than Holmes himself, the epitome of rational thought, authoritatively states
that a new acquaintance is intelligent, based on the size of his skull.

   Recent popular culture has focused more on the supernatural. In 1956, Philip
K. Dick published The Minority Report, a short story in which psychics who are
able to see the future help the police to prevent murders before the occur. n258
The "Precrime" unit arrests future perpetrators, who are punished for the crimes
they would have committed. Dick placed his story 100 years in the future. The
story was made into a 2002 movie, with Tom Cruise playing Dick's fifty year old,
[*245]  balding, out-of-shape director of "Precrime," the organization charged
with arresting criminals before they commit their crime. n259 In the television
show The Profiler, the protagonist, who works for the FBI as a forensic analyst,
is particularly effective because of her ability to see through the eyes of
others. The more recent television trend, however, is toward a real-world
ability to predict crime, through computer-assisted analysis, as in Person of
Interest, or mathematics, as in Numbers.

   The real world has caught up, and predicting future crimes has entered the
mainstream. The Santa Cruz, California police department is using "predictive"
software, using an algorithm similar to the program used to predict earthquake
aftershocks. n260 Based on the findings of Santa Clara Assistant Professor
George Mohler that offenders tend to return to the scene of past successes, the
software predicts the location where another crime is likely to occur. n261 On
April 12, 2012, CBS News reported that Los Angeles joined the "predictive
policing" movement, with officers patrolling computer-generated hot spots to
prevent crimes before they occurred. n262 These and similar efforts are mundane
when compared to the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Future Attribute
Screening Technology (FAST) program.

   FAST's goal, as stated in a December 2011 DHS privacy impact assessment, is
to "determine whether technology can enable the identification and
interpretation of a screened subject's physiological and behavioral cues or
signatures without the need for operator-induced stimuli which, in turn, will
allow for security personnel to remotely (and therefore, more safely) identify
cues diagnostic of malintent (defined as the intent to cause harm)." n263 In
other words, FAST has been created to identify criminals before they commit
crimes, and it is no surprise that DHS identifies FAST as a "pre-crime" system,"
or that many commentators have compared it to Minority Report and Person  [*246]
of Interest. n264

   Causation and prediction hold a great deal of interest in the domestic
violence field. Domestic violence counselors are well-acquainted with the Power
and Control Wheel, developed in 1984 by the Domestic Abuse Intervention Project
in Duluth, Minnesota. n265 The Wheel is a diagnostic tool to help characterize
and explain abusive relationships, including domestic violence, and its use has
become part of the culture of identifying abusive relationship and counseling
victims. n266

   As described by its founders, the Wheel is used in a variety of settings,
including assisting battered women to see how their abusers' tactics are used
against them and better understand the batterers' control, to counsel men to
identify their own behavior, and to train law enforcement on the nature of the
abusive relationships and to better understand why women may not want to leave
the relationship. n267 The Power and Control Wheel is probably the most commonly
used interpretive tool in the field of intimate violence, but it rarely, if
ever, is used to predict violence.

   One of the earliest and best-known tools for predicting lethality is
Jacquelyn Campbell's Danger Assessment (DA), first developed in 1985, and
revised several times since. n268 It consists of a two-step assessment to
determine a woman's lethality risk. First, the woman is presented with a
calendar on which she documents all incidents of abuse during the previous
twelve months. This allows the victim to see a graphical depiction of her abuse
including patterns of abuse. Second, the woman answers a series of twenty
yes-or-no questions. While the questions are weighted, in general the greater
the number of "yes" responses, the greater the woman's risk of being killed by
her battering intimate partner. The Danger Assessment is easily accessed, and
women or those assisting them can complete can complete it online. n269 A
shorter, eleven-question Danger Assessment test is also available for law
enforcement use when responding to domestic disputes  [*247]  or battering
incidents. n270

   In the 1980's, Gavin de Becker developed the MOSAIC Threat Assessment System,
which, in its current computer-assisted form, is used by law enforcement
agencies, including the Supreme Court Police and U.S. Capitol Police, to assess
threats to public figures and others. n271 De Becker developed different MOSAIC
systems for a variety of situations, including domestic violence. De Becker
argues that "spousal homicide is the single most predictable serious crime in
America... .There is an urgent need to help police, prosecutors, and victims
systematically evaluate cases to identify those with the ingredients of true
danger." n272 De Becker's domestic violence tool is MOSAIC-20, a computer
program that evaluates cases to identify those in which the danger of homicide
is highest.

   In 1997, de Becker published The Gift of Fear and Other Survival Signs that
Protect Us from Violence. n273 The Gift of Fear was lauded by commentators from
Oprah Winfrey to Marcia Clark to many domestic violence victims who felt that
the book spoke to their experiences. n274 Even those reviewers who did not like
the writing or felt that De Becker was a pompous self-promoter praised the
book's message. n275 The Gift of Fear spent four months on the New York Times
best-seller list and was the number one non-fiction seller of 1997. n276 It was
followed by other successful De Becker books on fear and security. n277 Oprah
now offers De Becker's MOSAIC-20 free of charge on her website, touting it as
"the tool that could save your life." n278

    [*248]  The Danger Assessment and MOSAIC-20 are designed to predict lethal
violence or "extreme dangerousness." n279 There are other assessment
instruments, such as the Kingston Screening Instrument for Domestic Violence
(K-SID) and the Domestic Violence Screening Instrument (DVSI), which were
designed to diagnose the risk of repeat assault at any level. n280 Other
instruments that assess risk of reassault include the Spousal Assault Risk
Assessment (SARA) n281 and the Ontario Domestic Violence Risk Assessment
(ODARA). n282

   The Kingston Screening Instrument for Domestic Violence (K-SID) was developed
in 1998 by Richard Gelles. The K-SID method is a ten-question survey that is
provided to both the victim and abuser and is comprised of three parts: (1) a
poverty chart; (2) a severity and injury index; and (3) ten risk markers:
poverty, age, drugs/alcohol, domestic violence in family of origin, witness to
domestic violence as a child, marital status, child abuse by defendant,
education, employment, previous domestic violence arrests, and violations of
protective orders. The test scores the batterer as being at a low, moderate,
high, or very high "risk of reoffending." If a batterer has a previous domestic
violence arrest or has violated a protective order, he is automatically
classified as being at a "very high" risk of reoffense. n283

   The Domestic Violence Screening Instrument (DVSI) includes twelve questions
that are intended to indicate the batterer's level of dangerousness. Like the
K-SID, this method is not widely available for public use. n284 The DVSI is
based upon information received from the abuser, rather than the victim, which
differentiates it from the Danger Assessment or MOSAIC-20 methods. n285 The DVSI
is administered by criminal justice professionals to classify the offender at a
[*249]  particular risk level. Where the DVSI is used, it can serve as a tool
during the supervision of the offender or the provision of specific services to
the offender and victim. n286

   The National Institute of Justice surveyed the predictive value of the four
primary risk and lethality assessment methods: MOSAIC-20, the DA, the K-SID and
the DVSI. The National Institute of Justice report indicates that, overall, "all
four of the risk assessment tools were significantly related to subsequent
severity of abuse, but not very highly related." n287 A study of DVSI usage
between 2003 and 2007 found that the predictive value of the DVSI across all
risk groups was not statistically significant. n288

   The very existence of lethality and risk assessment tools reveals distrust in
domestic violence victims' ability to understand their situations or predict
their risk of being reassaulted or murdered. These instruments arise from the
belief that "most people do a poor job of evaluating their own risk for negative
outcomes." n289 Some researchers believe that domestic violence victims are
deficient in recognizing danger in domestic violence relationships. n290 Others
believe that victims cannot predict future violence even with the aid of risk
assessment instruments because "there is no real way to predict unpredictable
behavior." n291

   Contrary to the inherent claims of the various risk assessment tools, victims
are generally the best predictors of their own risk of being seriously injured.
n292 Victims have a unique ability to predict the violence and anticipate the
degree of violence. n293 Studies show that domestic violence victims' ratings of
their risk of future violence committed  [*250]  by an intimate partner are
fairly accurate. n294 Almost sixty-five% of domestic violence victims accurately
predict their risk of reassault. n295 Victims may not accurately predict lethal
violence, however. In one study, only about half of victims of intimate partner
homicide or attempted homicide recognized that their abusers were capable of
killing them. n296

   In judging risk, victims use different factors than those utilized by risk
assessment tools, including interpretations of the abuser's moods, facial
expressions, speech patterns, and verbal threats. n297 They also rely on abuser
personality traits and dynamic factors like the abuser's ability to find the
victim and his desire for revenge. n298 These factors are difficult for risk
assessment tools to capture. Victims also rely on some of the same factors used
by assessment tools to predict violence, including the status of the
relationship, the history of violence in the relationship, and substance use.
n299 Some of the instruments' primary indicators - like the abuser's criminal
history or the abuser being in a stepparent role - play almost no role in victim
prediction. n300

   In fact, lethality assessments generally incorporate the victim's own
assessment of risk, bolstering the effectiveness of the instrument. For example,
the first risk factor listed by De Becker, who developed MOSAIC 20, is "The
woman has intuitive feelings that she is at risk." n301 This factor is the only
one to appear in italics, adding emphasis to its importance to the assessment.
The last factor is "His wife/partner fears he will injure or kill her. She has
discussed this with others or has made plans to be carried out in the event of
her death." n302 Both factors support the importance of victim prediction in
risk assessment and incorporates victim prediction into the instrument.
Campbell's Danger Assessment also incorporates victim risk assessment into its
instrument. The eighteenth factor in the Danger Assessment is "Do you believe he
is capable of killing you?" n303 Research shows that incorporating the victim's
assessment of danger improves instrument prediction. n304

    [*251]  One study revealed that victims' perceptions of risk were better at
predicting reassault than the K-SID but that the Danger Assessment was more
accurate at predicting lethal violence than the victims themselves. n305 The
research concluded that women's perceptions of risk are a "reasonably accurate
predictor of reassault." n306 Interestingly the study found that a victim's risk
was to some extent determined by the victim's perception of the risk. Victims
who were at greatest risk of future harm were those who felt somewhat safe and
therefore did not take proactive action to seek safety, such as separating from
the abuser or safety planning. n307 Victims who felt safe, victims who felt like
they were in danger, and victims who did not know whether they were at risk were
less likely to be reassaulted because there was less risk or because precautions
were taken. n308

   It is not our purpose to opine on whether MOSAIC-20, the DVSI, or any other
instrument should be used to predict serious or lethal intimate partner violence
(nor do we have the capacity to do so), but it is fair to assume that these
efforts will become increasingly sophisticated, and the implications are
dramatic. The notion of law enforcement profiling as a preventative tool is well
established, and there is a great deal of literature on the value, or lack
thereof, of profiling. Our question is different. Even assuming that the perfect
profiling tool exists, does it affect the attorney-client relationship? Put
another way, when we talk about the attorney-client relationship, particularly
in the context of client-centered lawyering, we take for granted that the lawyer
takes direction from the competent client. Can we maintain that presumption if
we believe MOSAIC-20 is an accurate assessor and MOSAIC-20 tells us that an
abuser is about to commit one of "America's most predictable murders." n309

   Murder can be the ultimate form of control. Through the threat of murder, the
abuser leverages everything the victim has - her access to work, her children,
and the world. Prior domestic violence is the single greatest predictor of
femicide by an intimate partner. In one study, 70% of female murder victims had
been physically abused by the same intimate partner who killed them. n310
Thirty-nine percent of  [*252]  all femicides, and probably even more, are
committed by an intimate partner. n311 In another study, domestic violence
homicide victims had experienced violence within thirty days of the homicide,
some within a day or two before the homicide. n312 Without using risk or
lethality assessment tools, domestic violence attorneys know that prior domestic
violence predicts homicidal possibilities.

   Most domestic violence attorneys fear that the next news item about domestic
violence homicide will feature one of their clients. While attorneys should be
concerned about the potential for lethal violence against their clients, this
fear must be subsumed by the responsibilities we carry in our professional
capacity. Ultimately the lawyer's own worries about her role or responsibility
in the client's safety must give way to the client's interests.

   Conclusion

 We approached this article as practicing lawyers and clinical teachers, looking
at a problem that domestic violence victims and their lawyers face every day.
Given the many vagaries of the rules of professional responsibility and the
basic agency role of the lawyer, it is not surprising that our own discipline
offered little help. Does anything else matter? We think that is a fair
question.

   In writing this article, we have come full circle. The project started with a
post hoc reflection of our actions in Barbara's case. As is evident from the
paper, each question led to new questions, some of which were unexpected. All
domestic violence practitioners are conscious of the nightmare scenario inherent
in their cases, and we are no different. We are aware that Barbara's case could
have turned out differently. That is a sobering thought, and, in the clinical
context, we asked ourselves whether students should be put into the position of
being in the front lines of a case that has the potential to be so devastating.

   In the end, we came back to where we started. While we do not discount the
effect of a positive result for the client on our views, we believe strongly
that our commitment to our client included the trust in her ability and judgment
to make the decision to argue that her husband should not be incarcerated, and
that our commitment to our students included sharing the full responsibilities
of our representation. In making the latter conclusion, we are informed - and
impressed - by  [*253]  our students' views. We discussed these issues with
them, and as is evident from their g-chat, they discussed the issues with each
other. That said, we have three caveats.

   First, we and our students benefitted from a multi-disciplinary approach,
which included classes by a psychologist and social workers on the nature of
domestic violence, along with the opportunity to consult with the same
professionals on cases. We encouraged students to use these opportunities to
talk about their own concerns, and provided the opportunity to do so in
confidential settings. This is not a luxury; we think it is a critical part of
clinical work in domestic violence.

   Second, we cannot underestimate the benefit to both clients and students of
having students working on the same case for at least two semesters, with the
opportunity to continue longer, especially for the purpose of continuing with an
existing client. During our representation of Barbara, our students prepared,
filed, mediated, and litigated motions and the trial; defended an appeal;
prepared and filed a successful petition for Innocent Spouse tax relief;
negotiated forbearance on a mortgage foreclosure; negotiated forbearance and
obtained a court-ordered title transfer on an automobile; talked with
accountants, bankers, psychiatrists, social workers, victim advocates, court
mediators, and lawyers; and generally lived with the case throughout law school.
They appeared in court numerous times, before four judges, and, by the time the
graduated, were greeted warmly in the courthouse by state marshals, family
relations advisors, and court clerks. As Barbara mentioned several times, the
relationship she built with Mary and Elizabeth provided relief at times of
stress. It would have been difficult to change students every semester.

   Third, as Professor Carey has written elsewhere, n313 we continue to believe
in the need to provide holistic services, with a full range of legal services.
We believe our obligation to our client is to use our skills to try to solve her
problems, and our obligation to our students is to teach the skills necessary to
make that effort. There are cases that conclude with the granting of a
restraining order, but many cases involve other family issues as well as
collateral legal issues arising from the breakup of the relationship. If we are
truly committed to teaching best practices, we need to be willing to provide the
highest quality services. In the case of domestic violence, obtaining a
restraining order without resolving child custody, support, and other critical
family issues will inevitably leave many clients at a loss. When we limit our
representation, we start from the proposition that we are  [*254]  not intending
to resolve the client's problems. The message to students is that skills are
enough. We should be striving for higher standards.

   ******

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesCrimes Against PersonsDomestic
OffensesGeneral OverviewFamily LawFamily Protection & WelfareCohabitants &
SpousesAbuse, Endangerment & NeglectFamily LawMarital Termination & Spousal
SupportSpousal SupportGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  We use the term "restraining order" to refer to civil restraining orders -
sometimes referred to as orders of protection or protective orders. We use the
term "protective order" to refer to orders by criminal courts - sometimes called
orders of protection, protective orders, and conditions of release.





n2.  As we mentioned earlier, the previous temporary restraining order had
expired and Barbara did not want it extended. The students reminded her
frequently that we could get another restraining order, but Barbara was
consistent in her objections. At the time of this conversation, however, the
restraining order issued by the court at trial was in place.





n3.  See Pauline Quirion, Why Attorneys Should Routinely Screen Clients for
Domestic Violence, 42 Boston Bar J. 12, 13 (1998).





n4.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct R. 1.2(a) (2008).





n5.  Id. at 1.14.





n6.  See Margaret E. Johnson, Balancing Liberty, Dignity, and Safety: The Impact
of Domestic Violence Lethality Screening, 32 Cardozo L. Rev. 519, 545 (2010);
Ruth Jones, Guardianship for Coercively Controlled Battered Women: Breaking the
Control of the Abuser, 88 Geo. L.J. 605, 609-11 (2000); Leigh Goodmark, Autonomy
Feminism: An Anti-Essentialist Critique of Mandatory Interventions in Domestic
Violence Cases, 37 Fla. St. U. L. Rev. 1, 22-29 (2009); Erin L. Han, Mandatory
Arrest and No-Drop Policies: Victim Empowerment in Domestic Violence Cases, 23
B.C. Third World L.J. 159, 166-67 (2003); Prentice L. White, Stopping the
Chronic Batterer Through Legislation: Will it Work This Time? 31 Pepp. L. Rev.
709, 728 (2004); Dana Harrington Conner, To Protect or to Serve:
Confidentiality, Client Protection, and Domestic Violence, 79 Temp. L. Rev. 877,
926 (2006).





n7.  Martha R. Mahoney, Victimization or Oppression? Women's Lives, Violence,
and Agency, in The Public Nature of Private Violence 59, 78 (Martha Albertson
Fineman & Roxanne Mykitiuk eds., 1994).





n8.  The definition for capacity cross-references the definition for competence
in the Black's Law Dictionary. Black's Law Dictionary 235 (9th ed. 2009); Connie
J. A. Beck & Lynda E. Frost, Defining a Threshold for Client Competence to
Participate in Divorce Mediation, 12 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 1, 4 (2006); Paul
S. Appelbaum, Assessment of Patients' Competence to Consent to Treatment, 357 N.
Engl. J. Med. 1834 (Nov. 2007).





n9.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; Black's Law Dictionary, supra note 8, at
322. We discuss competence under the Model Rules of Professional Conduct later
in the article.





n10.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; Hugh M. Lee & Jo Alison Taylor, Alabama
Elder Law § 1:7, Ethical Considerations - Assessing Client Competence (Nov.
2012).





n11.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; see 62 Am. Jur. 3d Proof of Facts § 197
(2001) (citing McKinney's Public Health Law § 2981, subd. 1(b)); Matter of Rose
S., 293 A.D.2d 619, 741 N.Y.S.2d 84 (2d Dep't 2002); see also Wheeler v. United
States, 159 U.S. 523, 524-25 (1895) (discussing competence of children).





n12.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; see also Erica Wood, Addressing
Capacity: What Is the Role of the Mediator?, Mediate.com (July 2003),
http://www.mediate.com/articles/woodE1.cfm; Thomas Grisso, Evaluating
Competencies: Forensic Assessments and Instruments 2 (2d ed. 2003).





n13.  Lee & Taylor, supra note 10; Black's Law Dictionary, supra note 8, at 235.





n14.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 28.





n15.  Susan S. M. Edwards, From Victim to Defendant: The Life Sentence of
British Women, 26 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 261, 284 (1994).





n16.  Id.





n17.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.14.





n18.  Id. at 1.2(a).





n19.  Id. at 1.2.





n20.  Id. at 1.14(a).





n21.  Id. at 1.14(b).





n22.  Jones, supra note 6, at 609.





n23.  Id. at 628.





n24.  Id.





n25.  Id. at 610, 656.





n26.  Id. at 642.





n27.  Id. at 655.





n28.  Id. at 642.





n29.  In re Conservatorship of Frarck, No. C4-92-2176, 1993 WL 139537 (Minn. Ct.
App. May 4, 1993); see Jones, supra note 6, at 641-42.





n30.  In re Conservatorship of Frarck, 1993 WL 139537 at 1.





n31.  Id.





n32.  Id. at 2.





n33.  Mahoney, supra note 7, at 73-81 (introducing the concept of exit as the
test of the level of agency for domestic violence victims).





n34.  Id. at 74.





n35.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.14(b).





n36.  Id. at 1.2(d).





n37.  In re Matter of Johnson, 597 P.2d 740, 743 (Mont. 1979).





n38.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.16(b)(2)-(3).





n39.  Id. at 1.16(b)(3).





n40.  Id. at 1.16(b)(2).





n41.  Id. at 1.16(a)(1).





n42.  Id.





n43.  Id. at 1.16(b)(1).





n44.  Id. at 1.16(b)(4).





n45.  Id.





n46.  Harrington Conner, supra note 6.





n47.  Id. at 900-11 (citing Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at
1.6(b)(1)).





n48.  Harrington Conner, supra note 6, at 937.





n49.  Neil S. Jacobson & John M. Gottman, When Men Batter Women 166 (1998).





n50.  Id. at 261.





n51. " In 2010, women who worked full time in wage and salary jobs had median
usual weekly earnings of $ 669. This represented 81 percent of men's median
weekly earnings ($ 824)." U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Women's Earnings as a Percent of Men's in 2010 (Jan. 10, 2012),
http://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2012/ted 20120110.htm.





n52.  Id.





n53.  Frances E. Olsen, The Family and the Market: A Study of Ideology and Legal
Reform, 96 Harv. L. Rev. 1497, 1548 (1983).





n54.  Angela Hattery, Intimate Partner Violence 58, 75 (2009).





n55.  An implied-in-fact contract is "an agreement ... founded upon a meeting of
minds, which, although not embodied in an express contract, is inferred, as a
fact, from conduct of the parties showing, in the light of the surrounding
circumstances, their tacit understanding." Baltimore & O. R. Co. v. United
States, 261 U.S. 592, 597 (1923).





n56.  In Latin, quantum meruit means "what one has earned." When used in
contract law, it definition loosely translates to "reasonable value of
services."





n57.  Olsen, supra note 53, at 1539 (citing Silvia Federici, Wages Against
Housework (1974)).





n58.  The cultural norm of men hitting their intimate partners reflects a
history of women as property and society's perception of men's superiority over
women, which helps to establish a man's superiority in individual relationships.
Historically, men have been given the right to use force against intimate
partners, especially in marriage. Until the early 19th century, spousal abuse
was largely condoned. A husband "had the right to whip his wife, provided, he
used a switch no larger than his thumb." State v. Oliver, 70 N.C. 60, 60 (1874).
Retreat from state-sanctioned spousal abuse was slow; see Bradley v. State, 1
Miss. 156, 156 (1824) (holding that "the husband should still be permitted to
exercise the right of moderate chastisement, in cases of great emergency, and to
use salutary restraints in every case of misbehaviour [sic], without subjecting
himself to vexatious prosecutions, resulting in the discredit and shame of all
parties concerned."); id. at 61-62 ("If no permanent injury has been inflicted,
nor malice, cruelty nor dangerous violence shown by the husband, it is better to
draw the curtain, shut out the public gaze, and leave the parties to forget and
forgive"). The Alabama Supreme Court finally declared spousal abuse to be
contrary to law in 1871: "the privilege, ancient though it be, to beat her with
a stick, to pull her hair, choke her, spit in her face, or kick her about the
floor, or to inflict upon her like indignities is not now acknowledged by our
law." Fulgham v. State, 46 Ala. 143, 146-47 (1871). Yet reprieve for spousal
abuse is not just an historical aberration; the common law doctrine of marital
rape exemption (where a husband cannot legally rape his wife due to explicit
exemptions for marital relationships in the rape statute) is still present in
state laws across the country. While categorical rape exemptions are no longer
present, Jill Elaine Hasday notes that, even today, the marital rape can result
in lighter sentences, additional procedural hurdles for even bringing the case,
or sometimes only apply to a narrower range of crimes. Jill Elaine Hasday,
Contest and Consent: A Legal History of Marital Rape, 88 Cal. L. Rev. 1373,
1376, 1482-86 (2000).





n59.  See, e.g., David Lisak et al., Factors in the Cycle of Violence: Gender
Rigidity and Emotional Constriction, 9 J. Traumatic Stress 721 (1996); M.
Christina Santana et al., Masculine Gender Roles Associated with Increased
Sexual Risk and Intimate Partner Violence Perpetration Among Young Adult Men, 83
J. Urb. Health 575 (2006).





n60.  Ross Macmillan & Rosemary Gartner, When She Brings Home the Bacon:
Labor-Force Participation and the Risk of Spousal Violence Against Women, 61 J.
Marriage & Fam. 947, 948 (1999).





n61.  Angela Littwin, Coerced Debt: The Role of Consumer Credit in Domestic
Violence, 100 Cal. L. Rev. 1, 1-47 (2012). It is important to note that some
abusers lack financial resources. He may be unemployed or underemployed, lack
education or job skills, or be a low-income wage earner. If he is attached to
rigid gender roles, he can be particularly frustrated about failing to provide
for his family. The abuser's frustration, insecurity, or sense of failure
related to his employment status and financial stability can fuel or provide an
excuse for violence. If he is feeling a lack of control in his financial
situation, he may turn to exercising more control in his intimate relationship
through violence. Suzanne Prescott & Carolyn Letko, Battered Women: a Social
Psychological Perspective, in Battered Women: A Psychological Study of Domestic
Violence 72, 74, 89 (Maria Roy ed., 1977).





n62.  See generally Susan L. Pollet, Economic Abuse: The Unseen Side of Domestic
Violence, 83 N.Y. St. B.A. J. 40, 40-41 (2011).





n63.  Prescott & Letko, supra note 61, at 84.





n64.  Jill Davies et al., Safety Planning with Battered Women: Complex
Lives/Difficult Choices 34-35 (1998).





n65.  Id. at 35.





n66.  Id.





n67.  Robert C. Davis et al., Research Notes, Increasing Convictions in Domestic
Violence Cases: A Field Test in Milwaukee, 22 Just. Sys. J. 61, 62 (2001)
(internal citation omitted); Kimberley D. Bailey, Lost in Translation: Domestic
Violence, "The Personal is Political," and the Criminal Justice System, 100 J.
Crim. L. & Criminology 1255, 1281-82 (2010). Some scholars argue that domestic
violence victim recantation in criminal cases is a product of mandatory
prosecution policies. When prosecutors work in a hard no-drop jurisdiction, "the
battered woman's preference is irrelevant, except to the extent that she helps,
or does not help, win the prosecutor's case. In these situations, prosecutions
are pursued against the batterer by forcing the woman to testify, sometimes
leading to recantation, blurring, or rearrangement of the facts by the victim."
Linda G. Mills, Intuition and Insight: A New Job Description for the Battered
Woman's Prosecutor and Other More Modest Proposals, 7 UCLA Women's L.J. 183, 186
(1997).





n68.  Donna Coker, Crime Control and Feminist Law Reform in Domestic Violence
Law: A Critical Review, 4 Buff. Crim. L. Rev. 801, 823 (2001).





n69.  Thomas L. Kirsch II, Problems in Domestic Violence: Should Victims Be
Forced to Participate in the Prosecution of Their Abusers?, 7 Wm. & Mary J.
Women & L. 383, 387, 392 (2001).





n70.  Id. at 392.





n71.  Infra Part III.





n72.  Donald P. Schneller, Prisoners' Families: A Study of Some Social and
Psychological Effects of Incarceration on the Families of Negro Prisoners, 12
Criminology 402, 403 (1975).





n73.  Kathleen J. Ferraro & John M. Johnson, Problems of Prisoners' Families:
The Hidden Costs of Imprisonment, 4 J. Fam. Issues 575, 588 (1983); John Hagan &
Ronit Dinovitzer, Collateral Consequences of Imprisonment for Children,
Communities, and Prisoners, 26 Crime & Just. 121, 124 (1999); Joseph Murray, The
Effects of Imprisonment on Families and Children of Prisoners, in The Effects of
Imprisonment, 442, 442-44 (Alison Liebling & Shadd Maruna eds., 2013);
Schneller, supra note 72, at 410; Creasie Finney Hairston, Prisoners and
Families: Parenting Issues During Incarceration 1, 4 (2001) (working papers
prepared for the "From Prison to Home" Conference Jan. 30-31, 2002).





n74.  Hagan & Dinovitzer, supra note 73, at 124, 139.





n75.  Id. at 124-25.





n76.  Id.





n77.  Id. at 122, 138.





n78.  Deborah Epstein, Procedural Justice: Tempering the State's Response to
Domestic Violence, 43 Wm & Mary L. Rev. 1843, 1860 (2002); see also David M.
Zlotnick, Empowering the Battered Woman: The Use of Criminal Contempt Sanctions
to Enforce Civil Protection Orders, 56 Ohio St. L.J. 1153, 1194 (1995).
Individuals who violate civil restraining orders can also be penalized through
civil or criminal contempt proceedings. Id. at 1194-95.





n79.  Emily J. Sack, Battered Women and the State: The Struggle for the Future
of Domestic Violence Policy, 2004 Wis. L. Rev. 1657, 1670 (2004).





n80.  Coker, supra note 68, at 802, 806 n.5.





n81.  Cheryl Hanna, No Right to Choose: Mandated Victim Participation in
Domestic Violence Prosecutions, 109 Harv. L. Rev. 1849, 1862-63 (1996); Coker,
supra note 68, at 802, 806 n.5; Mills, supra note 67, at 185. Mandatory
prosecution policies, sometimes called "no-drop policies," are often
characterized as "hard" or "soft" no drop policies. Hanna, supra, at 1863;
Mills, supra note 67, at 185-86. Under hard policies, given sufficient evidence
the prosecutor proceeds regardless of the victim's preferences, perhaps even
compelling the victim to participate in the prosecution. Id. Under soft
policies, a prosecutor may decide to forego prosecution in certain
circumstances, and victims are not forced to participate in the prosecution. Id.





n82.  Hanna, supra note 81, at 1860.





n83.  Id.





n84.  Id. at 1852, 1865.





n85.  Linda G. Mills, Killing Her Softly: Intimate Abuse and the Violence of
State Intervention, 113 Harv. L. Rev 550, 564 (1999).





n86.  See Goodmark, supra note 6; Jessica Dayton, The Silencing of a Women's
Choice: Mandatory Arrest and No Drop Prosecution Policies in Domestic Violence
Cases, 9 Cardozo Women's L.J. 281 (2003); Mills, supra note 67.





n87.  Mills, supra note 67, at 187-88.





n88.  Id. at 185.





n89.  Id.





n90.  Id. Opponents believe that the state's indifference to the victims
themselves is "harmful, even violent." Id. at 187-88.





n91.  Mandatory intervention policies are the product of years of criminal
justice reform fueled by the domestic violence movement and feminists, with the
perceived interests of domestic violence victims driving the reform efforts.
This reform has taken place only since the late 1960s, when the battered women's
movement began launching concerted efforts.

The battered women's movement was an outsider movement, a grassroots movement
that developed from the civil rights and feminist movements of the 1960s. Many
feminists saw battering as the product of patriarchy, as male control over
women... . The movement developed shelters, safe houses, and alternative
institutions. Groups rejected governmental funding for battered women's services
and programs. Despite ambivalence about the government's role in protecting
battered women, 'engaging with the state' emerged as a principal strategy of the
battered women's movement in the early 1980s and developed over the next two
decades.

Jane C. Murphy, Engaging with the State: The Growing Reliance on Lawyers and
Judges to Protect Battered Women, 11 Am. U. J. Gender Soc. Pol'y & L. 499,
500-01 (2003).





n92.  Hanna, supra note 81, at 1858.





n93.  Id. at 1859.





n94.  Id.





n95.  See, e.g., Henley v. Iowa Dist. Court for Emmet Cnty., 533 N.W.2d 199
(Iowa 1995). But cf. N. Olmsted v. Bullington, 744 N.E.2d 1225 (Ohio Ct. App.
2000); State v. Lucas, 100 Ohio St. 3d 1, 795 N.E.2d 642 (Ohio 2003); see
generally Marya Kathryn Lucas, An Invitation to Liability?: Attempts at Holding
Victims of Domestic Violence Liable as Accomplices When They Invite Violations
of Their Own Protective Orders, 5 Geo. J. Gender & L. 763, 774-78 (2004).





n96.  Francis X. Clines, Judge's Domestic Violence Ruling Creates an Outcry in
Kentucky, N.Y. Times, Jan. 8, 2002,
http://www.nytimes.com/2002/01/08/us/judge-s-domestic-violence-ruling-creates-an
-outcry-in-kentucky.html.





n97.  Id.





n98.  Stephanie Simon, Judges Push for Abused to Follow the Law, L.A. Times,
Jan. 22, 2002, http://articles.latimes.com/2002/jan/22/news/mn-24141.





n99.  See Kirsch, supra note 69, at 402-06.





n100.  591 S.E.2d 863 (N.C. 2004).





n101.  Id. at 865.





n102.  905 S.W.2d 313 (Tex. Ct. App. 1995).





n103.  Id.





n104.  Id.





n105.  For a discussion of the reasons victims recant, see Njeri Mathis
Rutledge, Turning a Blind Eye: Perjury in Domestic Violence Cases, 39 N.M. L.
Rev. 149, 163-75 (2009). Professor Rutledge advocates that some victims should
be prosecuted for perjury. Id. at 182-94.





n106.  No. 82170, 2003 WL 22971050, at 1 (Ohio Ct. App., Dec. 18, 2003).





n107.  Id. at 2.





n108.  No. C-030459, 2004 WL 596103, at 1 (Ohio Ct. App., March 26, 2004).





n109.  Id. at 2.





n110.  Eve S. Buzawa & Carl G. Buzawa, Domestic Violence: The Criminal Justice
Response 87 (1996) (internal citations omitted). But see Karin V. Rhodes et al.,
Victim Participation in Intimate Partner Violence Prosecution: Implications for
Safety, U.S. Department of Justice, 11 (2011) (finding that victims have a
strong preference for mandatory prosecution with or without the victim's
participation).





n111.  Buzawa & Buzawa, supra note 110, at 87.





n112.  Id.





n113.  Maureen McLeod, Research Note, Victim Noncooperation in the Prosecution
of Domestic Assault, 21 Criminology 395, 400 (1983).





n114.  Jennifer L. Hartman & Joanne Belknap, Beyond the Gatekeepers: Court
Professionals' Self-Reported Attitudes About and Experiences with Misdemeanor
Domestic Violence Cases, 30 Crim. Justice & Behav. 349, 361 (2003).





n115.  Id.





n116.  Douglas E. Beloof & Joel Shapiro, Let the Truth be Told: Proposed Hearsay
Exceptions to Admit Domestic Violence Victims' Out of Court Statements as
Substantive Evidence, 11 Colum. J. Gender & L. 1, 3 (2002); see Audrey Rogers,
Prosecutorial Use of Expert Testimony in Domestic Violence Cases: From
Recantation to Refusal to Testify, 8 Colum. J. Gender & L. 67, 78-83, 87-91
(1998); Jennifer Gentile Long, Explaining Counterintuitive Victim Behavior in
Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Cases, 1.4 The Voice 2-3 (2006).





n117.  McLeod, supra note 113, at 400 (citing U.S. Department of Justice,
Intimate Victims: A Study of Violence Among Friends and Relatives (1980)).





n118.  Id. (citing Lenore Walker, Battered Women (1979)).





n119.  McLeod, supra note 113, at 405.





n120.  Jeffrey Fagan, The Criminalization of Domestic Violence: Promises and
Limits 24 (1996) (describing civil restraining orders as "the primary source of
legal sanction and protection for battered women"); Carolyn N. Ko, Note, Civil
Restraining Orders for Domestic Violence: The Unresolved Question of "Efficacy,"
11 S. Cal. Interdisc. L. J. 361, 376 (2002) (describing civil restraining orders
as the "most attractive" remedy for domestic violence victims).





n121.  Law enforcement does not always enforce protection orders. In 1984,
Tracey Thurman was awarded $ 2.9 million after suing the Torrington, Connecticut
Police Department and twenty-four city police officers on the grounds that the
city's policy and practice of nonintervention and nonarrest [sic] in domestic
violence cases was unconstitutional on Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection
grounds. Thurman v. City of Torrington, 595 F. Supp. 1521, 1524 (D. Conn. 1984).





n122.  Bailey, supra note 67, at 1281-82.





n123.  Deborah Weissman, The Personal is Political-and Economic: Rethinking
Domestic Violence, 2007 BYU L. Rev. 387, 402 (2007).





n124.  Hartman & Belknap, supra note 114, at 363.





n125.  Id.





n126.  Buzawa & Buzawa, supra note 110, at 51, 53.





n127.  Id. at 45.





n128.  Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 48.





n129.  Buzawa & Buzawa, supra note 110, at 45.





n130.  Id.





n131.  Kimberle Crenshaw, Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity
Politics, and Violence Against Women of Color, 43 Stan. L. Rev. 1241, 1257
(1991).





n132.  Id.





n133.  Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 7-8.





n134.  See David Island & Patrick Letellier, Men Who Beat the Men Who Love Them:
Battered Gay Men and Domestic Violence (1991); Ruthann Robson, Lavender Bruises:
Intra-Lesbian Violence, Law and Lesbian Legal Theory, 20 Golden Gate U. L. Rev.
567 (1990).





n135.  Kirsch, supra note 69, at 393-96; see Laura Dugan et al., Do Domestic
Violence Services Save Lives?, 250 Nat'l Inst. of Just. J. 20, 24 (2003)
(finding an increase of femicide of married white and unmarried black women and
an increase in victimization of unmarried white women when a prosecutor pursued
protective order violations). But cf. Jacquelyn C. Campbell et al., Risk Factors
for Femicide in Abusive Relationships: Results From a Multisite Case Control
Study, 93 Am. J. Pub. Health 1089, 1092 (2003) (finding that domestic violence
arrests decrease the risk for femicide).





n136.  Martha R. Mahoney, Legal Images of Battered Women: Redefining the Issue
of Separation, 90 Mich. L. Rev. 1, 20 (1991); Mary Ann Dutton, The Dynamics of
Domestic Violence: Understanding the Response from Battered Women, 68 Fla. B.J.
24 (1994) (quoting Mahoney, supra at 94); Campbell et al., supra note 135, at
1092.





n137.  Mahoney, supra note 7, at 6.





n138.  Id. at 79.





n139.  George W. Bernard et al., Till Death Do Us Part: A Study of Spouse
Murder, 10 Bull. Am. Acad. Psychiatry & L. 271, 274 (1982). In fact, a victim's
chances of being killed by her intimate partner increases by a factor of four
when the worst incident of abuse in the relationship was triggered by a prior
attempt by the victim to leave the relationship. The odds of being murdered
increase by a factor of five when the worst incident was triggered by an attempt
to leave the abuser for another partner or by the abuser's jealousy. Campbell et
al., supra note 135, at 1092.





n140.  Carolyn Rebecca Block, Risk Factors for Death or Life-Threatening Injury
for Abused Women in Chicago, U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of
Justice, II-4-6, NCJ 199732 (2004).





n141.  Id. at 65-93.





n142.  Mahoney, supra note 7, at 73-74.





n143.  Jennice Vilhauer, Understanding the Victim: A Guide to Aid in the
Prosecution of Domestic Violence, 27 Fordham Urb. L. J. 953, 958 (1999). But cf.
Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 10 (finding that there is not an increase in
victims' visit to the emergency department during or after prosecution).





n144.  See Edna Erez & Carolyn Copps Hartley, Battered Immigrant Women and the
Legal System: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Perspective, 4 W. Criminology Rev. 155
(2003).





n145.  Yvonne Amanor-Boadu et al., Immigrant and Nonimmigrant Women: Factors
that Predict Leaving an Abusive Relationship, 18 Violence Against Women 611, 613
(2012) (internal citations omitted).





n146.  Erez & Copps Hartley, supra note 144, at 159-60.





n147.  Amanor-Boadu et al., supra note 145, at 642.





n148.  Nawal H. Ammar et al., Calls to Police and Police Response: A Case Study
of Latina Immigrant Women in the USA, 7 Int'l J. Police Science & Mgmt 230, 236
(2005); Leslye E. Orloff et al., Battered Immigrant Women's Willingness to Call
for Help and Police Response, 13 UCLA Women's L.J. 43, 60 (2003).





n149.  8 U.S.C. § 1227(a)(2)(E) (1952, as amended through 2008).





n150.  Orloff et al., supra note 148, at 69-70.





n151.  But cf. Orloff et al., supra note 148, at 69-70 (finding that the
immigration status of an abuser is not a factor in a victim's decision about
whether to contact the police).





n152.  Orloff et al., supra note 148, at 67-68; 8 U.S.C. § 1227(a)(2)(E) (1952,
as amended through 2008). When an undocumented victim reports her abuse, she may
be informing the authorities that she does not have valid immigration status -
and then chances removal. A victim of domestic violence might be able to seek a
non-immigrant visa commonly referred to as the U Visa, under 8 U.S.C. §
1101(a)(15)(U) (1952, as amended through 2013). This status requires that the
victim prove that she suffered "severe or substantial physical or mental abuse,"
that she "possesses information concerning criminal activity," and that she is
"likely to be helpful to ... authorities investigating or prosecuting criminal
activity." Id. Issuance of U Visa certifications by law enforcement can vary
widely from precinct to precinct. Joey Hipolito, Illegal Aliens or Deserving
Victims?: The Ambivalent Implementation of the U Visa Program, 17 Asian Am. L.J.
153, 163-64 (2010).





n153.  Elizabeth M. W. Trefonas, Access to Justice for Immigrants in Wyoming, 34
Wyo. Law. 24, 25-27 (2011).





n154.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-1509 (2010). Commonly referred to as the
"Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act" or SB 1070, which
refers to the bill version of the law as presented to the Arizona State Senate.





n155.  For example, in League of United Latin American Citizens v. Wilson, 908
F.Supp. 755 (C.D. Cal. 1995), on reconsideration in part, 997 F.Supp. 1244 (C.D.
Cal. 1997), the court ruled that a measure requiring law enforcement agencies to
verify the immigration status of every arrestee who they suspected of being in
the United States unlawfully was entirely preempted by federal law, which does
not require investigation into immigration status.





n156.  Mills, supra note 85, at 598; Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 50.





n157.  Jacobson & Gottman, supra note 49, at 166.





n158.  Id.





n159.  Hattery, supra note 54, at 53, 75 ("Many affluent battered women do not
leave their abusive partners for the same reasons middle-class or poor women do
not: because they love their partners, and because they believe they will
change.").





n160.  Kirsch, supra note 69, at 397.





n161.  Laurie Shanks, Whose Story is it, Anyway? - Guiding Students to
Client-Centered Interviewing Through Storytelling, 14 Clinical L. Rev. 509
(2008); Katherine R. Kruse, Fortress in the Sand: The Plural Values of
Client-Centered Representation, 12 Clinical L. Rev. 369, 369 (2006).





n162.  One foundation of a meaningful lawyer-client relationship that should be
taught to students is empathy for the client's dilemma. See Laurel E. Fletcher &
Harvey M. Weinstein, When Students Lose Perspective: Clinical Supervision and
the Management of Empathy, 9 Clinical L. Rev. 135 (2002).





n163.  See Gary Bellow & Bea Moulton, The Lawyering Process: Materials for
Clinical Instruction in Advocacy (1978); David A. Binder & Susan C. Price, Legal
Interviewing and Counseling: A Client-Centered Approach (1977); see also David
A. Binder et al., Lawyers as Counselors: A Client-Centered Approach (1991).





n164.  Jason K. Cohen, Know Your Client: Maximizing Advocacy by Incorporating
Client-Centered Principles into Legal Writing Rhetoric Practice, 1 Charlotte L.
Rev. 253, 263 (2009) (citing Alex J. Hurder, The Lawyer's Dilemma: To Be or Not
to Be a Problem-Solving Negotiator, 14 Clinical L. Rev. 253, 286 (2007)).





n165.  Kruse, supra note 161, at 377.





n166.  Robert M. Bastress, Client Centered Counseling and Moral Accountability
for Lawyers, 10 J. Legal Prof. 97, 98 (1985) (emphasis added).





n167.  Cohen, supra note 164, at 262.





n168.  Bastress, supra note 166, at 97.





n169.  Id. at 100.





n170.  Id.





n171.  Id.





n172.  Much scholarship on this issue refers to the client-centered lawyering
model as "client-centered counseling." See, e.g., Cohen, supra note 164; Robert
D. Dinerstein, Client-Centered Counseling: Reappraisal and Refinement, 32 Ariz.
L. Rev. 501 (1990).





n173.  Bastress, supra note 166, at 101.





n174.  Kruse, supra note 161, at 372.





n175.  Deborah J. Cantrell, What's Love Got to Do with It?: Contemporary Lessons
on Lawyerly Advocacy from the Preacher Martin Luther King, Jr., 22 St. Thomas L.
Rev. 296, 304 (2010) (ensuring that the client "retains her autonomy and freedom
of thought," and "the lawyer truly remains the agent of the client/principal").





n176.  Alex J. Hurder, Negotiating the Lawyer-Client Relationship: A Search for
Equality and Collaboration, 44 Buff. L. Rev. 71, 76 (1996).





n177.  Binny Miller, Give Them Back Their Lives: Recognizing Client Narrative in
Case Theory, 93 Mich. L. Rev. 485, 511-12 (1994).





n178.  Binder et al., supra note 163, at 270.





n179.  Jane K. Stoever, Transforming Domestic Violence Representation, 101 Ky.
L.J. 483, 488 (2013).





n180.  Susan Bryant & Maria Arias, Case Study A Battered Women's Rights Clinic:
Designing a Clinical Program Which Encourages a Problem-Solving Vision of
Lawyering that Empowers Clients and Community, 42 Wash. U.J. Urb. & Contemp. L.
207 (1992).





n181.  Id. at 217.





n182.  Id. at 219-20.





n183.  Id. at 220.





n184.  Id.





n185.  Michelle S. Jacobs, People from the Footnotes: The Missing Element in
Client-Centered Counseling, 27 Golden Gate U. L. Rev. 345, 346 (1997).





n186.  Id. at 348.





n187.  Id. at 377.





n188.  Id. at 404.





n189.  Austin Sarat & Stuart Scheingold, Cause Lawyering and the Reproduction of
Professional Authority, in Cause Lawyering: Political Commitments and
Professional Responsibilities 5 (Austin Sarat & Stuart Scheingold eds., 1998).





n190.  John O. Calmore, A Call to Context: The Professional Challenges of Cause
Lawyering at the Intersection of Race, Space, and Poverty, 67 Fordham L. Rev.
1927 (1999) (citing Carrie Menkel-Meadow, The Causes of Cause Lawyering: Toward
an Understanding of the Motivation and Commitment of Social Justice Lawyers, in
Cause Lawyering: Political Commitments and Professional Responsibilities 31, 37
(1998)).





n191.  Stuart Scheingold, The Struggle to Politicize Legal Practice: A Case
Study of Left-Activist Lawyering in Seattle, in Cause Lawyering, supra note 189,
at 118.





n192.  Id.





n193.  Richard Abel, Speaking Law to Power: Occasions for Cause Lawyering, in
Cause Lawyering: Political Commitments and Professional Responsibilities 69
(1998).





n194.  Thomas M. Hilbink, You Know the Type: Categories of Cause Lawyering, 29
Law & Social Inquiry 657, 659 (2004).





n195.  Ann Southworth, Lawyers of the Right: Professionalizing the Conservative
Coalition (2008).





n196.  Karen Czapanskiy, Domestic Violence, the Family, and the Lawyering
Process: Lessons from Studies on Gender Bias in the Courts, 27 Fam. L.Q. 247,
258-59 (1993).





n197.  See, e.g., Holly Maguigan, Battered Women and Self-Defense: Myths and
Misconceptions in Current Reform Proposals, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 379 (1991).





n198.  Czapanskiy, supra note 196, at 258-59.





n199.  Id.





n200.  See, e.g., Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) of 1994 (codified in part as
amended at 42 U.S.C.§§13925-14045 (2000, 2005, 2013)). For state resources, see
generally, National Center for State Courts,
www.ncsc.org/Topics/Children-Families-and-Elders/Domestic-Violence/Resource-Guid
e.aspx.





n201.  42 U.S.C.§§13925-14045.





n202.  Epstein, supra note 78, at 1845.





n203.  Id. at 1847-48.





n204.  Donna Wills, Domestic Violence: The Case for Aggressive Prosecution, 7
UCLA Women's L. J. 173, 173 (1997).





n205.  Id. at 175.





n206.  Id. at 180.





n207.  Id.





n208.  Betsy Tsai, The Trend Toward Specialized Domestic Violence Courts:
Improvements on an Effective Innovation, 68 Fordham L. Rev. 1285, 1287 (2000).





n209.  Id. at 1294-95.





n210.  Id.





n211.  Id. at 1298-00.





n212.  Id. at 1306.





n213.  Pennsylvania v. Kallinger, 580 A.2d 887 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 1990).





n214.  See, e.g., Matter of McCauley, 565 N.E.2d 411 (Mass. 1991); State v.
Perricone, 37 N.J. 463, 181 A.2d 751 (N.J. 1962).





n215.  State v. Ross, 849 A.2d 648, 665 (Conn. 2004).





n216.  Id.





n217.  Application to Justice Ginsburg to Vacate Stay of Execution of Michael
Ross, Lantz v. Ross, 543 U.S. 1134 (2005), available at
http://www.ct.gov/csao/lib/csao/app to vacate stay of execution 04a656.pdf;
Rebecca Leung, A Decision to Die, CBS News 60 Minutes (Jan. 26, 2005) (reporting
on Charlie Rose broadcast of Jan. 26, 2005), http://www.cbsnews. com/2100-500164
162-669530.html.





n218.  Lynne Tuohy, Defenders Ordered Out of Ross Case, Courant (Dec. 16, 2004),
http://articles.courant.com/2004-12-16/news/0412160987 1
defenders-clifford-second-penalty-hearing.





n219.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.9(1).





n220.  Id. at 1.9(2).





n221.  Tuohy, supra note 218.





n222.  Michael P. Ross, Why I Choose Death Rather than to Fight for Life,
Monster? You Decide, http://www.wild-side.com/ross.html (last visited Feb. 16,
2014).





n223.  Leung, supra note 217.





n224.  Ross v. Rell, No. 3:05-CV-130 (PCD) (D. Conn. 2005) (Temporary
restraining order), available at http://scholar.google.com/scholar
case?case=8836018988286999632&q= ross+v.+rell&hl=en&as sdt=6,32.





n225.  Id.





n226.  Id.





n227.  Leung, supra note 217.





n228.  In re Charges of Judicial Misconduct, 465 F.3d 532, 544 (2d Cir. 2006).





n229.  Id.





n230.  Id.





n231.  Id.





n232.  Memorandum of Decision, State v. Michael Ross, No. CR84-20300, 20355,
20356 (Conn. Super. Ct., Apr. 22, 2005), available at
http://www.ct.gov/csao/cwp/view.asp?A=18 01&Q=292090.





n233.  William Yardley & Stacey Stowe, Connecticut Carries Out Its First
Execution in 45 Years, N.Y. Times, May 13, 2005,
http://www.nytimes.com/2005/05/13/nyregion/13cnd-death.html?pagewanted=all.





n234.  State v. Martini, 677 A.2d 1106 (N.J. 1996), overruled by State v.
Reddish, 859 A.2d 1173 (N.J. 2004).





n235.  Id. at 1112.





n236.  Id.





n237.  Id.





n238.  Maria Newman, Death Row Inmate Instructs Lawyers to Fight for His Life,
N.Y. Times, Aug. 17, 1999,
www.nytimes.com/1999/08/17/nyregion/death-row-inmate-instructs-lawyers-to-fight-
for-his-life.html?ref=johnmartini.





n239.  Barbara Boyer, A Defiant Murderer Dies at 79: John Martini, Condemned to
Death in 1990 for Killing a Fair Lawn Man, Died in His Jail Cell. He Killed at
Least Three Others, Philly.com (Sept. 11, 2009),
http://articles.philly.com/2009-09-11/news/25268088 1
death-penalty-irving-flax-favor-of-capital-punishment.





n240.  The Associated Press, Newark: Court Upholds Death Sentence, N.Y. Times,
July 26, 2006,
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/26/nyregion/26mbrfs-008.html?ref=johnmartini;
Boyer, supra note 239.





n241.  Katherine Santiago, Death of Killer John Martini Brings Victim's Widow
Small Comfort, The Star-Ledger (Sept. 10, 2009),
http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2009/09/death of nj convicted murderer.html





n242.  N. Olmsted v. Bullington, 744 N.E.2d 1225, 1228 (Ohio Ct. App. 2000); see
also Bays v. Bays, 779 So.2d 754, 758 (La. 2001).





n243.  Carolyn Ham, Injustice Defined: Why Battered Women Cannot and Should Not
be Charged With Violating Civil Protection Orders That Were Issued at Their
Request, Battered Women's Project 6 (2003).





n244.  Id. at 5.





n245.  G.W. Allport, Personality - A Psychological Interpretation 286 (1937).





n246.  Walter Mischel, Personality and Assessment 6 (1968); Miguel A. Mendez,
Character Evidence Reconsidered: 'People Do Not Seem to be Predictable
Characters,' 49 Hastings L.J. 871 (1998).





n247.  Mendez, supra note 246.





n248.  Id.; Mischel, supra note 246.





n249.  Mischel, supra note 246.





n250.  Walter Mischel & Yuichi Shoda, A Cognitive-Affective System of
Personality: Reconceptualizing Situations, Dispositions, Dynamics, and
Invariance in Personality Structure, 102 Psychol. Rev. 246 (1995).





n251.  Edward J. Imwinkelried, Reshaping the "Grotesque" Doctrine of Character
Evidence: The Reform Implications of the Most Recent Psychological Research, 36
Sw. U. L. Rev. 741, 754-55, 768 (2008).





n252.  Fed. R. Evid. 413.





n253.  Id. at 414.





n254.  Id. at 415.





n255.  Katharine K. Baker, Once a Rapist? Motivational Evidence and Relevancy in
Rape Law, 110 Harv. L. Rev. 563 (1997).





n256.  Patrick A. Langan & David J. Levin, Bureau of Justice Statistics,
Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994 (June 2003),
http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/rpr94.pdf.





n257.  Cal. Evid. Code § 1109 (West 2006); 725 Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann. 5
/115-10.2a (West 2013).





n258.  Philip K. Dick, The Minority Report (1956) (first published in Fantastic
Universe and has been republished since in several anthologies of Philip Dick's
work).





n259.  Directed by Steven Spielberg as a joint venture between DreamWorks,
Amblin Entertainment, and 20th Century Fox (2002).





N260.  Heather Kelly, Police Embracing Tech that Predicts Crimes, CNN Tech,
(4:59pm EDT, July 9, 2012),
http://www.cnn.com/2012/07/09/tech/innovation/police-tech/.





n261.  Greg Risling, Sci-fi Policing: Predicting Crime Before it Occurs, Yahoo!
News, (12:14pm, July 1, 2012),
http://news.yahoo.com/sci-fi-policing-predicting-crime-occurs-150157831.html.





n262.  Bob Orr, LAPD Computer Program Prevents Crime by Predicting It, CBS
Evening News, (8:40pm, Apr. 11, 2012),
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lapd-computer-program-pre
vents-crime-by-predicting-it/.





n263.  U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Future Attribute Screening
Technology (FAST)/Passive Methods for Precision Behavioral Screening 2,
available at http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy pia st
fast-a.pdf.





n264.  Declan McCullagh, Homeland Security Moves Forward with "Pre-Crime"
Detection, CNET (4:00am PDT, Oct. 7, 2011), www.news.cnet.com/8301-31921
3-20117058-281/home land-security.





n265.  Home of the Duluth Model, http://www.theduluthmodel.org/training/wheels
.html.





n266.  Id.





n267.  Id.





n268.  Jacquelyn Campbell et al., The Danger Assessment: Validation of Lethality
Risk Assessment Instrument for Intimate Partner Femicide, 24 J. Interpers.
Violence 653, 657, 661-62 (2009); Lisa A. Goodman et al., Predicting Repeat
Abuse Among Arrested Batterers: Use of the Danger Assessment Scale in the
Criminal Justice System, 15 J. Interpers. Violence 63, 65 (2000).





n269.  Danger Assessment, www.dangerassessment.com (last visited Mar. 2, 2014).





n270.  See, e.g., Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence, Lethality
Assessment Program for First Responders, available at
http://www.bwjp.org/files/bwjp/files/MD LAP Packetwebsite.pdf. For an in-depth
exploration of when the Danger Assessment may be admissible in court or useful
to attorneys, see Amanda Hitt & Lynn McLain, Stop the Killing: Potential
Courtroom Use of a Questionnaire that Predicts the Likelihood that a Victim of
Intimate Partner Violence Will Be Murdered By Her Partner, 24 Wis. J. L. Gender,
& Soc'y 277 (2009).





n271.  De Becker's web site included endorsements from several public officials,
including Dennis Chapas. Tracy Johnson, Software Assesses Likelihood of Crime,
L.A. Times, Oct. 21, 1996 (quoting Dennis Chapas, a former Supreme Court
security official), http://articles.latimes.com/1996-10-21/local/me-56247 1
domestic-violence.





n272.  Gavin de Becker, The Gift of Fear 201 (1997).





n273.  Id.





n274.  Id.; see also, e.g., Oprah,
http://www.oprah.com/relationships/Trusting-Your-Intuition-Could-Save-Your-Life
(last visited Feb. 27, 2014) (episode aired Jan. 29, 2008); Gavin De Becker &
Associates, http://gavindebecker.com/who we are/what others say (last visited
Feb. 27, 2014).





n275.  De Becker, supra note 272.





n276.  Gavin de Becker & Associates, http://gavindebecker.com/.





n277.  See, e.g., Gavin de Becker et al., Just 2 Seconds (2008); Gavin de
Becker, Fear Less: Real Truth About Risk, Safety, and Security in a Time of
Terrorism (2002); Protecting the Gift: Keeping Children and Teenagers Safe (and
Parents Sane) (2002); De Becker, supra note 272.





n278.  Oprah, MOSAIC: The Tool that Could Save Your Life,
http://www.oprah.com/oprahshow/MOSAIC-Gavin-de-Beckers-Online-Threat-Assessment-
Tool (last visited Feb. 27, 2014).





n279.  Janice E. Roehl et al., Intimate Partner Violence Risk Assessment
Validation Study, Final Report (Mar. 28, 2005) (unpublished research report),
available at http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/209731.pdf.





n280.  Id.





n281.  Spousal Assault Risk Assessment (SARA),
http://www.biscmi.org/documents/Spousal Assault Risk Assessment.pdf (last
visited Mar. 2, 2014); P. Randall Kropp & Stephen D. Hart, The Spousal Risk
Assessment (SARA) Guide: Reliability and Validity in Adult Male Offenders, in
Risk Reduction: Interventions for Special Needs Offenders (Harry E. Allen, ed.
2002).





n282.  See N. Zoe Hilton et al., A Brief Actuarial Assessment for the Prediction
of Wife Assault Recidivism: The Ontario Domestic Assault Risk Assessment, 16
Psychological Assessment 267 (2004).





n283.  Jan Roehl & Kristin Guertin, Intimate Partner Violence: The Current Use
of Risk Assessments in Sentencing Offenders, 21 Just. Sys. J. 171, 179, 181
(2000); see also Harrington Conner, supra note 6, at 920.





n284.  Harrington Conner, supra note 6, at 920.





n285.  Id.





n286.  See Kirk R. Williams & Stephen R. Grant, Empirically Examining the Risk
of Intimate Partner Violence: The Revised Domestic Violence Screening Instrument
(DVSI-R), 121 Pub. Health Rep. 400 (2006).





n287.  National Institute of Justice, Crime, Violence & Victimization Research
Division's Compendium of Research on Violence Against Women 1993-2011, at 2B
(2012); Jill Theresa Messing et al., Collaborating With Police Departments:
Recruitment in the Oklahoma Lethality Assessment (Ok-LA) Study, 17 Violence
Against Women 163 (2011).





n288.  National Institute of Justice, supra note 288; Messing et al., supra note
288.





n289.  Jennifer K. Connor-Smith et al., Risk Assessments by Female Victims of
Intimate Partner Violence: Predictors of Risk Perceptions and Comparison to an
Actuarial Measure, 26 J. Interpers. Violence 2517, 2519 (2011).





n290.  Tricia H. Witte & Rachel Kendra, Risk Recognition and Intimate Partner
Violence, 25 J. Interpers. Violence 2199, 2212 (2010).





n291.  Id. (emphasis in original).





n292.  Arlene N. Weisz et al., Assessing the Risk of Severe Domestic Violence:
The Importance of Survivors' Predictions, 15 J. Interpers. Violence 75, 81
(2000); Davies et al. supra note 64 at 2.





n293.  Elizabeth M. Schneider, Describing and Changing: Women's Self-Defense
Work and the Problem of Expert Testimony on Battering, 14 Women's Rts. L. Rep.
213, 240 (1992); Jones, supra note 6, at 627.





n294.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200.





n295.  Id. at 2201.





n296.  Jacqueline Campbell et al., Assessing Risk Factors for Intimate Partner
Homicide, 250 Nat'l Inst. Just. J. 14 (2003).





n297.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200 (internal citations omitted).





n298.  Connor-Smith et al., supra note 289, at 2531.





n299.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200 (internal citations omitted).





n300.  Connor-Smith et al., supra note 289, at 2543, 2531.





n301.  De Becker, supra note 273, at 183.





n302.  Id. at 185.





n303.  Danger Assessment, http://www.dangerassessment.org (last visited Mar. 2,
2014).





n304.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200; Weisz et al., supra note 292, at
86; D. Alex Heckert & Edward W. Gondolf, Battered Women's Perceptions of Risk
Versus Risk Factors and Instruments in Predicting Repeat Reassault, 19 J.
Interpers. Violence 778, 797 (2004).





n305.  Heckert & Gondolf, supra note 305, at 796-97.





n306.  Id. at 796.





n307.  Id. at 797.





n308.  Id.





n309.  De Becker, supra note 272, at 185.





n310.  Campbell et al., supra note 135, at 1091. Of female homicide victims ages
18 to 50, 79% were murdered by an intimate partner who committed prior domestic
violence against them. Id.





n311.  Shannan Catalano, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Intimate Partner
Violence: Attributes of Victimization, 1993-2001, Special Report, 3 (Nov. 2013).
Twenty-four percent of femicides are committed by an unknown perpetrator. Id.
Almost certainly some of these "unknown" assailants include domestic violence
perpetrators.





n312.  Block, supra note 140, at II-4-5.





n313.  Camille Carey, Correcting Myopia in Domestic Violence Advocacy: Moving
Forward in Lawyering and Law School Clinics, 21 Colum. J. Gender & L. 220
(2011).


                               16 of 22 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2014 George Mason Law Review
                            George Mason Law Review

                                  Winter, 2014

                            George Mason Law Review

                           21 Geo. Mason L. Rev. 409

LENGTH: 32737 words

ARTICLE: ANONYMITY, FACEPRINTS, AND THE CONSTITUTION

NAME: Kimberly N. Brown*

BIO: * Associate Professor of Law, University of Baltimore School of Law. B.A.,
Cornell; J.D., University of Michigan. Thanks to Garrett Epps, Michele Gilman,
Steve Grossman, Dave Jaros, Dionne Koller, C.J. Peters, and Colin Starger for
comments on prior versions of this Article, and to Jillian Bokey, Andrew
Geraghty, and Ben Bor for research assistance.

TEXT:
 [*409]

    Introduction

    Rapid technological advancement has dramatically expanded the warrantless
powers of government to obtain information about individual citizens directly
from the private domain. Biometrics technology n1 --such as voice recognition,
hand measurement, iris and retinal imaging, and facial recognition technology
("FRT")--offers enormous potential for law enforcement and national security.
But it comes at a cost. Although much of the American public is complacent with
government monitoring for security reasons, n2 people also expect to go about
daily life in relative obscurity--unidentifiable to others they do not already
know, do not care to know, or are not required to know--so long as they abide by
the law. The reality is quite different. The government and the private sector
have the capacity for surveillance of nearly everyone in America. As one
commentator puts it, "soon there really will be nowhere to run and nowhere to
hide, short of living in a cave, far removed from technology." n3

    FRT is a major contributor to the spectre of an Orwellian society. n4
Facebook uses it to identify "friends" from uploaded photos, which are
permanently affixed in cyberspace n5 and accessible to the government. n6
Federal  [*410]  and state authorities have their own databases of images
collected from drivers' licenses, public surveillance cameras, unmanned aerial
drones, and tiny recording devices attached to police uniforms. n7 Currently,
the FBI is working on a $ 1 billion effort to expand its fingerprint
identification system to cross-reference FRT and other biometric data against a
vast data repository that includes some 13 million criminal mug shot photos. n8
With FRT, a federal agent or corporate marketer can convert any number of these
facial images into algorithms, associate them with countless other bits of
personal data accumulating throughout the global information network, and track
the most intimate details of an unsuspecting person's daily life.

    There is no recognized constitutional theory for placing boundaries on the
government's ability to engage in ubiquitous monitoring of citizens based on
images snapped in public or posted online. The Supreme Court has made clear that
the Fourth Amendment does not protect "what a person knowingly exposes to the
public." n9 Nor does it cover information revealed to third parties. n10 Thus,
although corporations and individual citizens generate the largest storehouses
of personal data today, the government--through its subpoena powers, contractual
agreements, and public access to online data--can effectively bootstrap private
information into its own domain without contending with the Constitution.

    As a consequence, technology has minimized the Constitution's importance as
a mechanism for protecting against arbitrary government tracking of one's
movements, habits, relationships, interests, and thoughts. This Article attempts
to reassert the Constitution's relevance when it comes to surveillance through
FRT and related technologies in two ways. First, it argues for recognition of
anonymity as a constitutional value that is both implicit in the Court's Fourth
Amendment jurisprudence and explicit in its First Amendment jurisprudence.
Second, it suggests that a shift in technology's intersection with data--from
analysis of static bits of information in the pre-digital age to a "growing
respect for correlations" among data in the digital age--warrants a fresh look
at Fourth Amendment doctrine that ex  [*411]  cuses surveillance based on
information obtained in public or from third parties. n11 FRT allows users to
correlate numerical faceprint algorithms with other data points to create new
information relating to an individual's past, present, and future life. n12
Constitutional law must account for this modern capacity to manipulate data for
predictive intelligence. To this end, the Article derives doctrinal guidelines
for grappling with technology's threat to the constitutional value of anonymity
from a reconciliation of the Fourth and First Amendment law bearing on the
issue.

    Part I defines anonymity and explains that respect for the capacity to
remain physically and psychologically unknown to the government traces back to
the Founding. With the advent and expansion of new technologies such as FRT, the
ability to remain anonymous has eroded, leading to a litany of possible harms.

    Part II reviews the existing Fourth and First Amendment doctrine that is
available to stave off ubiquitous government surveillance and identifies
anonymity as a constitutional value that warrants more explicit doctrinal
protection. Although the Fourth Amendment has been construed to excise
surveillance of public and third-party information from its scope, the Court's
recent jurisprudence indicates a growing recognition that constitutional
doctrine is out of step with modern surveillance technologies. The Supreme Court
has expressly recognized a First Amendment right to anonymous speech, which
should be taken into account in assessing the constitutionality of government
surveillance systems under the Fourth Amendment. This Part accordingly draws a
distinction between cases that arose in the pre-digital age, in which content
was often collected through physical trespass or eavesdropping, and those
arising in the digital age, in which correlations among disparate points of "big
data" are used to make predictions.

    Part III argues that Fourth and First Amendment doctrine should be
reconciled to address the manipulation--versus acquisition--of FRT data to
derive new information about individuals which is exceedingly intimate and
otherwise out of the government's reach. This Part suggests that this
qualitative shift in information gathering is constitutionally significant under
existing doctrine. Part III also offers guidelines gleaned from the intersection
of First and Fourth Amendment jurisprudence for consideration by lower courts
and legislators as they address the threat of limitless surveillance which big
data and new technologies present.   [*412]

    I. The Public Value of Anonymity

    In 1964, a commentator observed that one day "automated society might look
upon privacy with the same air of amused nostalgia we now reserve for, say,
elaborate eighteenth-century drawing room manners." n13 Numerous modern scholars
have similarly declared that privacy "is in 'peril,' 'distress,' or 'danger.'"
n14 Much has been written about the need to adapt Fourth Amendment law to
accommodate modern infringements on privacy interests. n15 As this Part
explains, FRT focuses particular attention on one aspect of privacy--the ability
to manage and retain one's anonymity. This Part defines anonymity and attempts
to place it in some historical context. Although American colonists lived under
the constant gaze of their communities, they abhorred the officious prying of
British authorities. They also robustly engaged in anonymous speech. This Part
goes on to describe modern-day FRT and the threat it poses to privacy in the
twenty-first century. In short, technology has put in jeopardy a value that most
Americans take for granted--the ability to carry on largely incognito, if we so
choose.

    A. Anonymity Defined

    Privacy is a vague notion that means different things to different people in
various contexts. n16 Scholars have painstakingly developed taxonomies for
privacy, parsing its subcomponents in an effort to develop a more accurate
vocabulary for debate and analysis. n17 Two conceptions of privacy are
particularly accessible to most laypeople. n18 Informational privacy is the
[*413]  interest in "avoiding disclosure of personal matters" and controlling
one's own personal information, which the Supreme Court has suggested is
constitutionally protected when gathered and held by the government. n19 Today,
the term often relates to information stored on computer systems, such as
medical records, financial data, criminal records, political records,
business-related information, and online data. n20 Physical privacy has
traditionally been equated with the protection of one's person or physical
space, such as a home or vehicle. Violations of physical privacy can trigger
Fourth Amendment and/or common law scrutiny. n21 People intrinsically appreciate
the need for legal limits on the ability of the government and others to invade
one's home or body absent consent.

    Related to both informational and physical privacy--but less salient in the
collective mind of the public--is the concept of anonymity: the state of hiding
in plain sight from the government so long as one abides by the rule of law.
Anonymity is the freedom from being identified and tracked by name while going
through the motions of daily life, including physical movement in private and
public spaces, the transaction of business online, and the maintenance of
personal and professional relationships, habits, and beliefs--however unpopular
or repugnant. n22 Anonymity enables one to re  [*414]  main undifferentiated in
public. In literal terms, it means "nameless." n23 As Justice Sotomayor
suggested in United States v. Jones, n24 the everyday occurrences for which
anonymity is appreciated "take[] little imagination to conjure: trips to the
psychiatrist, the plastic surgeon, the abortion clinic, the AIDS treatment
center, the strip club, the criminal defense attorney, the by-the-hour motel,
the union meeting, the mosque, synagogue or church, the gay bar and on and on."
n25 In protecting against government access to one's physical whereabouts,
anonymity shelters private information about one's thoughts, relationships, and
plans for the future. n26 It fosters the capacity to control or limit access to
"one's intimate relationships or aspects of life" n27 and, accordingly, to
exclude others from the very "consciousness of the mind." n28

    In the late eighteenth century, philosopher Jeremy Bentham famously unveiled
his "panopticon" design for institutional buildings, which contained a central
tower surrounded by a perimeter of backlit cells from which inmates could not
see their surveyors. n29 Bentham described the design as "a new mode of
obtaining power of mind over mind," as a single guard could theoretically
control all of the prisoners simultaneously. n30 As French philosopher Michel
Foucault later explained, the prisoners would internalize the presumption that
they are being watched and modify their behavior to comply with expectations,
n31 rendering the guards virtually superfluous. Legal theorists who have studied
the panopticon effect posit that "anonymity in public promotes freedom of action
and an open society," while a "lack of public anonymity promotes conformity and
an oppressive  [*415]  society" n32 in which "majoritarian authority will coerce
citizens into silence or acquiescence." n33

    Although Bentham never built his panopticon, the association of privacy with
anonymity from the government later appeared in the writings of Samuel Warren
and Louis Brandeis, who in 1890 recognized "the right to be let alone" n34 as an
important definitional component of privacy and one that has since become "the
foundation of privacy law in the United States." n35 In the twentieth century,
Professor William Prosser similarly identified intrusions upon a person's
seclusion or solitude as a distinct kind of privacy invasion against which the
law should provide protection. n36

    Social science research suggests that contemporary Americans view the
ability to move about in public or online without being tracked as an important
aspect of privacy. n37 Surveys indicate that Internet users perceive an invasion
of privacy when their web-surfing information is collected and shared with other
parties. n38 People especially want to maintain a meaningful degree of
independence from the government when it comes to personal thoughts and
communications with others. Even before online technology took hold, survey
respondents ranked the monitoring of phone calls for thirty days and the reading
of a personal diary as more intrusive than the government's withdrawal of blood.
n39 An area of particular public concern is video surveillance, which may arouse
fears of rigid and arbitrary law en  [*416]  forcement by an omniscient state.
n40 National surveys and focus groups indicate that "the threat of misuse of
biometric identifiers is a point of concern and an obstacle to social
acceptance" of such technologies. n41 This attitude is reflected in survey
participants' relative distaste for the use of biometric identification systems
in public events like a professional football game, which was "viewed as a
transgression of anonymity and decisional autonomy without sufficient policy
justification or assurance that the identification could be carried out with
accuracy and reliability." n42

    People appear to be more willing to tolerate privacy intrusions where the
government's use of their personal information would foster their own
well-being. n43 The cost-benefit calculus imperceptibly performed around the
acceptability of new technology, moreover, can be affected by the perceived
urgency of its public safety benefits. In the months after 9/11, 51 percent of
people surveyed expressed greater trust in government than survey respondents
did a year earlier. n44 Respondents were also more comfortable with decreased
anonymity when biometric technology was used for boarding a plane, accessing
government buildings, checking against a terrorist watch list, or requiring
background checks on foreigners. n45 In a CBS/New York Times poll taken after
the Boston Marathon attacks, 78 percent of respondents endorsed the idea of
having more public surveillance cameras such as those that helped identify the
bombing suspects; only 20 percent said that the government has gone too far in
restricting civil liberties in the battle against terrorism. n46

    Anonymity is nonetheless something that Americans generally take for
granted. People expect to be able to recede into a crowd or go unnoticed while
walking down the street so long as they have nothing illegal to hide. At this
juncture, there is "insufficient public awareness" about FRT, as well as "zero
auditing mechanisms in place for any entity using the technologies." n47 As a
consequence, the public is unable to meaningfully perform a cost-benefit
calculus regarding the government's use of new technologies for various forms of
surveillance. They can only react when employment of  [*417]  state-of-the-art
surveillance methods makes headlines. In a separate CNN/Time poll taken two
weeks after the Boston tragedy, 61 percent of respondents were more concerned
about government expansion of anti-terrorism policies that restrict civil
liberties than they were about the government failing to enact new policies to
fight terrorism. n48 As information technology continues to gain in intelligence
and efficiency, it becomes increasingly difficult for individuals to emerge from
anonymity, engage in a non-anonymous transaction (such as withdrawing money from
an ATM machine), and then return to anonymity. We live in an age in which people
care deeply about privacy yet routinely provide information online in exchange
for some perceived benefit, n49 such as the ease of making a purchase
transaction, or the social or professional networking that social media
provides. Young people who have grown up with technology might not even conceive
of a personal photo as private at all. n50 What many Americans fail to
appreciate is that technology has put society on a trajectory whereby, even if
the interiors of homes and bodies are kept private, and even if the law
continues to protect against disclosures of certain categories of personal
information, anonymity will soon become a relic of history. n51

    B. Anonymity Historically

    Personal privacy was hard to come by in colonial America. n52 Colonial
travelers shared beds with strangers due to the "practical necessity" of the
"warmth and protection of a small group." n53 The lack of ceilings in early
homes enabled gawking from the roof beams. n54 Individuals were perceived
primarily as part of a family or community, which collectively monitored  [*418]
members' habits and exerted pressure to conform. n55 Newcomers to New England
towns needed permission to settle there, n56 and residents were required to
register the names of overnight guests. n57 Colonial laws forbade residents from
living alone or far from "the meeting house," or center of town, as was the
practice in England. n58 Court records show that Massachusetts homes were
systematically searched in 1668 for single persons to be relocated with
families. n59 Opposition to solitary living "was motivated, not by lack of
concern for privacy, but by traditions, practicality, and an underlying fear of
sin." n60 From the perspective of the church, living together as a family unit
was the best arrangement for individuals and the community as a whole. n61 By
the eighteenth century, however, "New England society was prepared to accept the
person who wanted to live alone because he enjoyed the privacy this way of
living provided." n62

    While living conditions afforded colonists little privacy, the
pre-technological world enabled greater privacy relative to the present day in
other respects. Inevitably, reputational information was circulated as people
moved about, n63 but people could avoid eavesdropping by conducting
conversations beyond the earshot of others. n64 Business was transacted with
scant written exchanges, n65 and personal records consisted largely of diaries
or letters. n66 Only one person possessed a paper at any given time, and copies
[*419]  had to be painstakingly recreated. n67 Individuals could control
personal documents by securing them in a desk or cabinet in their own home.

    Moreover, "despite the casualness of delivery, there seems to have been
little premeditated and malicious perusal of other people's mail" in the
seventeenth century. n68 The Post Office Act of 1710 mandated that "No Person or
Persons shall presume wittingly, willingly, or knowingly, to open, detain, or
delay . . . any Letter or Letters, Packet or Packets." n69 Colonists who were
concerned about prying British authorities developed codes for encrypting their
letters n70 and used sealing wax and wrapping paper on packages. n71 It was not
until 1835 that postmasters attempted to monitor content in response to efforts
by Southerners to make illegal the transmission of abolitionist literature
through the mail. n72 In Ex parte Jackson, n73 the Supreme Court upheld a
statute banning the transmission of lotteries via the mail, but noted that
"letters and sealed packages of this kind in the mail are as fully guarded from
examination and inspection . . . as if they were retained by the parties
forwarding them in their own domiciles." n74 Thus, when given the opportunity,
the late-nineteenth-century Court upheld citizens' privacy in their personal
mail.

    Although colonists lived in the public eye of their communities, the Framers
forbid their newly formed American government from searching a person's private
papers without first obtaining a warrant, n75 a requirement that dates back to
the English common law. n76 Whereas specific warrant provisions were included in
even the earliest state constitutions, n77 the Fourth  [*420]  Amendment came
into effect as part of the Bill of Rights in 1791. n78 The Supreme Court has
deemed "the familiar history" of the Fourth Amendment as reflecting "a choice
that our society should be one in which citizens 'dwell in reasonable security
and freedom from surveillance.'" n79 Its "commands grew in large measure out of
the colonists' . . . memories of the general warrants formerly in use in
England. These writs . . . granted sweeping power to . . . agents of the King to
search at large for smuggled goods." n80 Indeed, "aside from searches incident
to arrest, such warrantless searches were not a large issue in colonial
America." n81

    While the warrant requirement was adopted to stave off the intrusiveness of
the Crown, "anonymous speech flourished" in social and political life around the
time that freedom of speech and freedom of association became constitutionally
protected under the First Amendment. n82 For the Founding Fathers, anonymity in
the authorship of newspapers and pamphlets was central to attracting public
support for the Revolution and formation of an independent government without
evoking British punishment. n83 Although speech was strictly limited during the
years of the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, n84 the laws' constitutionality
was the subject of much debate at the time. n85 In a famous sedition trial in
1735, a printer refused to reveal the authors of anonymous attacks on the Crown
Governor of New York, an act which, according to Justice Thomas in his
concurring opinion in McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission, n86 "signified at
an early moment the extent to which anonymity and the freedom of the press were
intertwined in the early American mind." n87 In 1788, Alexander Hamilton, James
Madison, and John Jay published "the most famous example of the outpouring of
anonymous political writing that occurred during the ratifica  [*421]  tion of
the Constitution" n88 --the Federalist Papers. They used the pseudonym "Publius"
to disseminate the treasured constitutional writings, and signed others as "An
American Citizen," "Marcus," and "Americanus." n89

    Anonymous speech--and opposition to it--continued to play a central role in
political discourse after Ratification. The Continental Congress famously
attempted to identify an article by Benjamin Rush, who published his attack on
members of Congress for inflation, embezzlement, and fraud under the name
"Leonidas." n90 When a Massachusetts delegate moved to require the article's
printer to appear before Congress and discuss Leonidas, several members
successfully opposed the motion on the grounds that it violated freedom of the
press. n91 Federalists and Anti-Federalists continuously sparred in essays
written under fictitious names like "Caesar," "A Countryman," "Fabius," and
"Landowner" on the one hand and "Cato," "Brutus," "Cincinnatus," and "Federal
Farmer" on the other. n92 James Madison and Alexander Hamilton also used the
famous pseudonyms "Helvidius" and "Pacificus" in debates over President
Washington's decision to remain neutral in the war between the British and the
French. n93 Scholars have surmised from these and other examples that "the
historical use of anonymous speech strongly suggests that the Framers originally
viewed anonymity as a vital part of free speech and freedom of the press." n94

    In the nineteenth century, new technologies for law enforcement emerged as
cities increasingly faced crime and civil disobedience stemming from population
growth, ethnic and racial tensions, and economic failures. n95 With the
invention of the telegraph in 1844 and the telephone in 1876, elec  [*422]
tronic communication made individual surveillance much easier. n96 In 1890,
Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis bemoaned that "instantaneous photographs and
newspaper enterprise had invaded the sacred precincts of private and domestic
life." n97 With the advancement of photography, "amateurs could take 'candid'
photographs, often clandestinely," in lieu of the prolonged professional
sittings that preceded George Eastman's invention of the handheld camera in
1884, and newspapers came to thrive on "sin, sex and violence." n98 Wireless
police radios, n99 polygraphs, n100 and the use of fingerprints for personal
identification emerged in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
n101 Law enforcement relied heavily on wiretapping to monitor social unrest
caused by poor working conditions, World War I, and Prohibition. n102

    In the second half of the twentieth century, the government's technological
powers for visual surveillance became more sophisticated, allowing it "to peer
into homes, high rise apartments, and commercial establishments," as well as
"remote private areas." n103 Night vision devices enabled long-range military
surveillance, n104 and aerial mapping cameras allowed for precision
topographical photography. n105 As Professor Daniel Solove has observed, it was
"the profound proliferation of new information technolo  [*423]  gies during the
twentieth century--especially the rise of the computer--that made privacy erupt
into a frontline issue around the world." n106

    In addition to using surveillance technologies, the government has long
obtained personal information about individual citizens by requiring its
disclosure as an obligation of citizenship. Although the modern census gathers
information about race, income, and age, the first Congress rejected proposals
from James Madison to require such disclosures, instead using binary
categorizations such as woman or man, slave or free man, and adult or child.
n107 The Department of State began issuing passports to American citizens
traveling abroad in 1789. n108 Passports were mandated for international travel
during the Civil War and World War I n109 and have been, as a general rule,
since 1952. n110 In 1835, the Supreme Court acknowledged that "it is understood,
as matter of practice, that some evidence of citizenship is required, by the
secretary of state, before issuing a passport." n111

    Congress instituted the first income tax in 1861 as a means of raising
revenue for the Civil War. n112 The law imposed a 5-percent tax on the "annual
gains, profits, or income of every person residing in the United States" for
incomes exceeding six hundred dollars. n113 With the passage of the Sixteenth
Amendment in 1913, the federal government gained the power to require the filing
of personal financial information, such as gross income, on tax returns. n114
The first social security number was issued through the U.S. Postal Service in
1936, n115 and since then social security numbers have come to function as
unique personal identifiers n116 that are routinely linked to property
ownership, residence histories, medical records, and other public transactions.

    The government's power to require disclosures of individual data expanded
with the rise of the administrative state in the early twentieth centu  [*424]
ry. n117 In addition to social security information, federal agencies now
maintain thousands of databases with records pertaining to immigration,
bankruptcy, military history, and the receipt of federal benefits. Federal
legislation governing housing assistance now enables any law enforcement officer
to obtain the address, social security number, and photo of assistance
recipients without formal legal process. n118 In addition, states possess
"records of births, marriages, divorces, professional licenses, voting
information, worker's compensation, personnel files (for public employees), and
property ownership," as well as information about crimes, victims, and arrests.
n119 Some require the collection of biometric information and random drug tests
as preconditions to receiving public benefits. n120

    The government's legal authority to collect identifying data on individuals
derives from a number of sources. n121 Federal agencies collect a substantial
amount of information pursuant to legislation authorizing complex systems of
taxation, regulation, licensing, and entitlement distribution. For law
enforcement, the constitutional gold standard is probable cause and a warrant.
The government may alternatively use judicial, grand jury, and administrative
subpoenas and court orders, often upon a showing of mere relevance. n122 Modern
governmental data collection increasingly involves the ability to obtain
substantial amounts of information about private citizens without any formal
process. n123 Administrative and law enforcement agencies can simply purchase
personal data from private sector companies n124 or mine what already exists in
the public domain. n125 Since the private sector has turned personal data
collection into a multibillion-dollar industry, n126 the  [*425]  vitality of
this last method is becoming a hallmark of twenty-first century government
surveillance.

    Private parties have historically lacked equivalent access to others'
personal information absent the use of private investigators, civil lawsuits,
consent, trespass, or theft. This is in part a consequence of the enumerated
constitutional and statutory powers of the federal government, n127 as well as
the states' residuary "police powers," which the Supreme Court has characterized
as "the time-tested conceptional limit of public encroachment upon private
interests for 'the interests of the public.'" n128 Police powers include the
authority to perform searches of persons or property, to interrogate those in
custody, and to subpoena witnesses and documents in both the criminal and civil
contexts. n129 Although civil discovery is broad, "this power does not begin to
compare with the power of compulsion under grand jury subpoena or the intrusion
incident to a physical search for documents." n130

    With the inventions of the computer and the Internet, however, the private
sector's capacity for gathering massive amounts of personal data for commercial
purposes has exploded. Individual private corporations in the United States have
more stored data than the Library of Congress. n131 If the total information
that exists globally today were transferred to CD-ROMs, "they would stretch to
the moon in five separate piles." n132 The sheer glut of data has changed "the
essence" of information itself. n133 "In a big-data world, . . . we won't have
to be fixated on causality; instead we can discover pat  [*426]  terns and
correlations in the data that offer us novel and invaluable insights." n134 By
applying a mathematical algorithm to hundreds of billions of searches, for
example, Google can identify a disease outbreak with stunning accuracy. n135
Online retailers such as Amazon.com routinely make real-time merchandise
suggestions from browsing and purchase data. n136 Information on social
networking sites enables companies to identify when, how, and by whom their
products are being discussed. n137 Web bug trackers allow "analytics and ad
serving companies to track user behavior across large portions of the web." n138

    The government now mines huge amounts of personal data from online private
sector companies without first obtaining a search warrant, subpoena, court
order, or consent. n139 Although police investigations have always involved
information collection, the amount and variety of data involved today--and the
technological ability to create new information by cross-referencing data points
with other data points--is new. n140 By drawing  [*427]  correlations among bits
of information stored in various forms--including photographs taken from
closed-circuit surveillance cameras, algorithms of facial images, phone call
records, financial transactions, crime statistics, or email records--the
government will soon be able to predict behavior before it happens, n141 much
like Tom Cruise in the futuristic blockbuster Minority Report. n142

    C. FRT: State-of-the-Art Menace?

    FRT produces uniquely powerful data for making correlations across exabytes
of digital information. Humans engage in facial recognition instinctively by
observing and identifying a person as being one they have seen before. n143 In
addition to facial features, humans use clothing, gait, hair, posture, and other
information about a subject's physical appearance for identification. n144 In
automated systems, a device collects information about individuals and stores it
in a database according to a numeric code or algorithm that represents the
face--a "faceprint." n145 This can be done in a number of ways. One is to
measure the distance between various "nodal points" or peaks and valleys on the
face, such as the eyes, the width of nose, or the depth of the eye sockets,
cheekbones, jawline, and chin. n146 The faceprint can also be generated by
mapping the unique placement of pores, lines, and spots on the texture of an
individual's skin. n147 The computer then searches the biometric database for
comparisons of the newly acquired facial data to  [*428]  stored data. n148 FRT
is capable of matching a face from a database of over 1.6 million photos with
92-percent accuracy. n149

    FRT is useful for two main purposes. The first is verification or
authentication--that is, the "one-to-one" matching of a faceprint with an
individual record to authenticate the person's identity. The system does not
check every record in the database for a match--only that which corresponds to
the identity the individual is claiming as his own. n150 FRT can thus be used to
efficiently control access to secure facilities because it allows users to scan,
verify, and store a face within a second and requires no physical touch,
password, or employee badge. n151 The second use of FRT is for identification of
an otherwise unknown individual from an anonymous image. For this function, the
FRT system is provided an image and attempts to identify a different image of
the same individual in the database through a "one-to-many" matching process.
n152 Thousands of gigabytes of data are searched to retrieve all images that
include a particular human subject. Typically, the computer produces a group of
facial images ranked by computer-evaluated similarity. If a score is above a
predetermined threshold, a match is identified. n153 In this way, FRT can be
used to identify a particular individual or to create a profile of a random
subject which could be useful for marketing and law enforcement purposes.

    The private sector is rapidly realizing the commercial potential of FRT.
Retailers use FRT to identify shoplifters. n154 Casinos use it to detect card
counters and prevent their entry to the blackjack tables. n155 Airports, banks,
museums, and factories have installed "walk through identification systems" that
can identify sixty people per minute n156 and will eventually  [*429]  operate
at long distances. n157 Technology is being developed to automatically adapt
videos into "avatar-sized images of just a user's face" n158 and to gauge the
attractiveness of crowds. n159 In the near future, FRT will be embedded into
signs and billboards to instantly scan faces, identify recent purchase history,
and adjust the retailer's message to a person's tastes. n160 Restaurants and
stores are already exploring uses of FRT to assimilate data from social media
sites such as Facebook for this purpose. n161 Using only Facebook and
commercially available FRT, researchers in 2012 were able to identify college
students more than 30 percent of the time, n162 retrieving their names, photos,
and other personal information from Facebook--including the first five digits of
social security numbers--with the privacy settings turned on. n163

    Law enforcement now uses FRT systems "to identify suspects, accomplices and
even innocent bystanders in a wide range of criminal investigations," with scant
public notice. n164 The technology is highly efficient, allowing investigators
to perform in a manner of minutes a review of surveillance video which might
take hundreds of hours to manually com  [*430]  plete. n165 Thirty-seven states
now apply FRT to searchable databases containing the images of more than 120
million people from driver's license registries and non-driver identification
cards. n166 Ten states have authorized FBI access to their data for
investigative purposes. n167 All combined, federal and state FRT databases
currently contain approximately 400 million facial images. n168 The most
advanced systems enable officers to run searches of this data from laptops in
squad cars. n169

    In addition to photos obtained from passports, drivers' licenses, and mug
shots, the government is collecting countless video and still images of the
general public from surveillance cameras in public locations and other sources.
A company named Trapwire is working with police from the District of Columbia,
New York, and Los Angeles on rapid analysis of live footage from closed-circuit
TV surveillance cameras, n170 which number in the thousands in the New York City
subway system alone. n171 Undercover police in Florida have reportedly "mingled
with the public, using their smartphones to take videos and photos," and then
checked images against FRT data to pull up names and identities. n172 At the
2012 Republican National Convention in Tampa, live videos from smartphones fed
into a surveillance system that included ninety-four high-definition cameras.
n173 The Federal Communications Commission gave permission to test this
surveillance system as "part of an effort to eventually develop a similar $ 7
billion National Public Safety Broadband Network of highly secure, encrypted
voice, video, and data communications, as well as an evidence-quality,  [*431]
permanent recording of all data collected." n174 The government's access to
real-time data will soar as upwards of thirty thousand surveillance drones are
launched in the next decade, n175 many by private sector corporations. Equipped
with powerful FRT cameras, the drones "will be capable of capturing minute
details, including every mundane action performed by every person in an entire
city simultaneously." n176

    At the federal level, the FBI has undertaken a billion-dollar effort to
expand its current fingerprint database into a Next Generation Identification
("NGI") system that will include data such as iris scans, photos, palm prints,
gait and voice recordings, scars, tattoos, and DNA. n177 "NGI will use a variety
of biometric data, cross-referenced against the nation's growing network of
surveillance cameras to not only track your every move but create a permanent
'recognition' file on you within the government's massive databases." n178 The
plan is for NGI to be "fully operational in 2014," and to share its information
with other federal agencies and the states. n179

    Additionally, government FRT systems have access to private sector sources
of images--including private cell phones and social networking websites--for use
in identifying subjects. n180 Facebook's "tag suggestion" function automatically
retrieves the names of individuals in photos uploaded by its one billion users
at a rate of three hundred million a day. n181 Although Facebook made a
statement to Congress that it "store[s FRT] templates in encrypted form and
maintains them in a monitored and access  [*432]  restricted database," n182 its
current privacy policy reserves a right to "access, preserve and share
information when we have a good faith belief it is necessary to: detect, prevent
and address . . . illegal activity" or "to protect ourselves, you and others."
n183 It was recently disclosed that the National Security Agency's ("NSA") Prism
program enables direct government access to the systems of Google, Apple,
Facebook, and other Internet companies for purposes of obtaining search
histories, email content, file transfers, and live chats. n184 Government
agencies also collaborate with private entities through a network of federally
funded "fusion centers" for mining collective databases and histories of online
activity. n185

    The law enforcement and national security benefits of using FRT in targeted
criminal investigations are self-evident. n186 But its potential for enabling
surveillance of common citizens is troubling. Before FRT, drivers' license
photos were of limited utility to investigators unless a subject's name was
already known. n187 Law enforcement can now capture a facial image of an unknown
individual without the subject's knowledge, match the image with other bits of
data using FRT algorithms, and come up with a rich dossier of personal
information. n188 Although fingerprint data similarly enables investigators to
attach a name to unidentified biometric data, n189 FRT  [*433]  goes much
further. Once a person is identified, rapid correlations with countless other
images and data points in cyberspace and self-contained databases can detect
past activity and predict future movements. n190 Taken to its extreme, this
technology could be used to perform "identity sweeps" of random subjects for
relatively benign activities like walking a dog without a leash. n191 A few
states have imposed legislative barriers to police collection of and access to
FRT data, but many others have not. n192 The feasibility of domestic "police
state" surveillance operations is thus no longer a matter of science fiction.
n193 FRT renders innocent people susceptible to intrusive police investigations
for being "tagged" in a photo with someone suspected of a crime. n194

    Although the FBI currently limits the use of FRT to finding potential leads,
n195 there remains significant potential for errors and abuse. n196 Match errors
occur in the form of false positives and false negatives. A false positive
occurs where the FRT system incorrectly declares a successful match when the
images are not of the same individual. n197 A false negative occurs where the
FRT system fails to declare a match when the images are, in fact, of the same
individual. n198 Image quality, the background environment, the movement and age
of the subject, the focus and quality of the camera, lighting, and the angle at
which the subject's image is captured all contribute to match errors. n199 If a
face or set of features is altered with a disguise or hat, the likelihood of
misidentification increases. n200 Yet law enforcement officers rely on
electronic matches of photographs and images in the FBI's existing database
without any human verification of the results. n201 And as a re  [*434]  sult of
what is known as "function creep" or "mission creep," the initial purpose for
lawfully collecting images may later morph into additional uses that were
unannounced or unintended. n202 These vulnerabilities have serious implications,
even for those with no reason to fear law enforcement.

    D. The Harms of Compromised Anonymity

    In the big data universe, FRT enables users to trace a passerby's life in
real time--past, present, and future--through the relation of faceprint
algorithms with other data points. Although the American public's reaction to
the NSA's Prism program was relatively muted, n203 most people understand the
awkward feeling of being stared at on a bus. n204 Constant surveillance by the
government is more pernicious. It discovers a person's identity and then
augments that information based on intelligence that today's technology renders
limitless. The loss of anonymity that results from the detailed construction of
a person's identity through ongoing monitoring can lead to at least three
categories of harm, discussed below.

    First, as the panopticon suggests, ongoing identification and tracking can
adversely influence behavior. People involuntarily experience "self  [*435]
censorship and inhibition" in response to the feeling of being watched. n205
They "might think twice," for example, "before visiting websites of extreme
sports or watching sitcoms glorifying couch potatoes if they felt this might
result in higher insurance premiums." n206 The social norms that develop around
expectations of surveillance can, in turn, become a tool for controlling others.
To be sure, social control is beneficial for the deterrence of crime and
management of other negative behavior. Too much social control, however, "can
adversely impact freedom, creativity, and self-development." n207 Professor
Jeffrey Rosen has explained that the pressures of having one's private scandals
"outed" can push people toward socially influenced courses of action that,
without public disclosure and discussion, would never happen. n208 They are less
willing to voice controversial ideas or associate with fringe groups for fear of
bias or reprisal. n209 With the sharing of images online, the public contributes
to what commentators have called "sousveillance" or a "reverse Panopticon"
effect, whereby "the watched become the watchers." n210

    Second, dragnet-style monitoring can cause emotional harm. Living with
constant monitoring is stressful, inhibiting the subject's ability to relax and
negatively affecting social relationships. n211 When disclosures involve
particularly sensitive physical or emotional characteristics that are normally
concealed--such as "grief, suffering, trauma, injury, nudity, sex, urination,
and defecation"--a person's dignity and self-esteem is affected, and incivility
toward that person increases. n212

    Third, constant surveillance through modern technologies reduces
accountability for those who use the data to make decisions that affect the
people they are monitoring. n213 The collection of images for FRT applica
[*436]  tions is indiscriminate, with no basis for suspecting a particular
subject of wrongdoing. It allows users to cluster disparate bits of information
together from one or more random, unidentified images such that "the whole
becomes greater than the parts." n214 The individuals whose images are captured
do not know how their data is being used and have no ability to control the
manipulation of their faceprints, even though the connections that are made
reveal new facts that the subjects did not knowingly disclose. The party doing
the aggregating gains a powerful tool for forming and disseminating personal
judgments that render the subject vulnerable to public humiliation and other
tangible harms, including criminal investigation. n215 Incorrect surveillance
information can lead to lost job opportunities, intense scrutiny at airports,
false arrest, and denials of public benefits. n216 In turn, a lack of
transparency, accountability, and public participation in and around
surveillance activities fosters distrust in government. The recent scandal and
fractured diplomatic relations over NSA surveillance of U.S. allies is a case in
point. n217 Perhaps most troubling, FRT enhances users' capacity to identify and
track individuals' propensity to take particular actions, n218 which stands in
tension with the common law presumption of innocence embodied in the Due Process
Clause of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. n219 As described below,
prevailing constitutional doctrine does not account for the use of technology to
identify, track, and predict the behavior of a subject using an anonymous public
image and big data correlations.

    II. Anonymity and the Constitution

    Although the Constitution lacks an express right to privacy, the Supreme
Court has acknowledged that the Bill of Rights reflects the Framers' concern for
protecting specific aspects of physical privacy, such as privacy  [*437]  of
speech and assembly (First Amendment), n220 privacy of the home against demands
that it be used to house soldiers (Third Amendment), n221 privacy of the person
and possessions against unreasonable searches (Fourth Amendment), n222 and
informational privacy (Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination).
n223 Many view the splintered decision in Griswold v. Connecticut n224 as the
Supreme Court's first recognition of a right to decisional privacy n225 on the
theory that "specific guarantees in the Bill of Rights have penumbras, formed by
emanations from those guarantees that help give them life and substance," and
that some of those guarantees "create zones of privacy." n226 Writing for a
majority of which two Justices concurred only in the judgment, Justice Douglas
construed such penumbras to include the First Amendment's right of association
and the Fourth Amendment's right "to be secure in their persons, houses, papers,
and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures." n227 Although the
Supreme Court has steadily reviewed new surveillance technologies under the
Fourth Amendment for more than a century, prevailing doctrine leaves FRT beyond
constitutional scrutiny. By contrast, anonymity is an interest that has received
First Amendment protection, but no court has extended that doctrine to  [*438]
government surveillance methods. n228 Thus, as things stand, the Constitution
plays no meaningful role in confining the serious anonymity harms associated
with FRT identification and monitoring.

    A. Anonymity and the Fourth Amendment

    The Supreme Court has recognized that "the overriding function of the Fourth
Amendment is to protect personal privacy and dignity against unwarranted
intrusion by the State." n229 In Mapp v. Ohio, n230 the Court characterized the
Fourth Amendment as actually establishing a "right to privacy, no less important
than any other right carefully and particularly reserved to the people." n231
Together with the Fifth Amendment, n232 the Fourth Amendment "expresses
'supplementing phases of the same constitutional purpose--to maintain inviolate
large areas of personal privacy.'" n233 Application of traditional Fourth
Amendment doctrine to modern surveillance technologies such as FRT nonetheless
risks emptying such privacy guarantees of meaning.

    Numerous scholars have addressed whether the Fourth Amendment covers the
government's use of novel technologies, and how leading doctrine should be
adjusted to ensure sufficient constitutional scrutiny of new methods of
conducting a law enforcement "search." n234 This Section highlights an
additional nuance that warrants consideration within this discussion: a
distinction between pre-digital and digital age cases. The surveillance
potential of big data was only technologically possible after the Internet took
hold on the public with the development of the first webpage and web browsers in
the early 1990s. n235 Today, it is technology's capacity to generate new
information by making correlations among individual data points which poses
unprecedented threats to the ability to remain anonymous in modern society,
rendering traditional Fourth Amendment doctrine  [*439]  outmoded for the
digital age. As explained below, a contingent of the Supreme Court is beginning
to recognize that constitutional doctrine must be adapted to establish
boundaries on the use of technology for constant surveillance of the general
public.

    1.  Pre-Digital Age

    The categorization of government activity as a search under the Fourth
Amendment is important under traditional doctrine: if something is not a search,
the analysis ends, and the government is not required to show probable cause.
n236 A traditional search is like the tort of trespass, which existed at the
time the Fourth Amendment was adopted. It involves a physical intrusion on
private property. The Supreme Court deviated from this property-based approach
to determining whether something is a search early on, however, and developed a
"reasonable expectation of privacy" trigger. n237 In the absence of a trespass,
"a Fourth Amendment search occurs when the government violates a subjective
expectation of privacy that society recognizes as reasonable." n238 The
legitimate expectation of privacy in a searched person or location must meet
both a subjective and an objective test of reasonableness. "First, has the
individual manifested a subjective expectation of privacy in the object of the
challenged search? Second, is society willing to recognize that expectation as
reasonable?" n239 For subpoenas, the Court has invoked the Fourth Amendment only
minimally, applying a reasonableness test that is satisfied if a subpoena is not
"too sweeping in its terms." n240 It has also authorized warrantless searches in
three circumstances: if there is "reasonable suspicion" of a past or imminent
crime to justify a stop and frisk; n241 if "'special needs' other than the
normal need for law enforcement provide sufficient justification" for a search,
n242 as in cases of mandatory drug testing for employment or in schools; n243
and if a regulatory scheme  [*440]  authorizes warrantless inspections of
property "for compliance with health and safety standards," n244 for example.
Additionally, the Court has established a status-based continuum of diminished
privacy rights under the Fourth Amendment which includes "parolees having fewer
expectations of privacy than probationers." n245

    The question of what "privacy" means under the Fourth Amendment has
nonetheless been in flux from the phrase's inception. n246 In Olmstead v. United
States, n247 Louis Brandeis famously dissented from the majority's holding that
wiretapping was not a Fourth Amendment violation absent physical trespass to the
home, employing his familiar theory that "the makers of our Constitution . . .
conferred, as against the government, the right to be let alone--the most
comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men." n248
Employing a property-based approach to the Fourth Amendment, Boyd v. United
States n249 marked a high point of the Supreme Court's recognition of broad
protections against government invasion of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
In refusing to uphold a court order directing a defendant in a civil forfeiture
proceeding to produce documentary evidence of liability, the Court framed the
"essence" of the government's offense as "the invasion of the indefeasible right
of personal security, personal liberty and private property," as the framers
were keenly attuned to "the struggles against arbitrary power in which they had
been engaged for more than 20 years" when they approved the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments. n250

    In Katz v. United States, n251 however, a majority of the Court rejected the
property-based reasoning of Boyd and held that the relevant Fourth Amendment
inquiry is whether the practice at issue "violated the privacy upon which [the
defendant] justifiably relied." n252 It wrote that the Constitu  [*441]  tion
"protects people, not places." n253 Thus, the government violated the Fourth
Amendment in electronically listening to and recording the defendant's
conversation in a public telephone booth--once a fixture on American street
corners and in Superman comics. The Court found it insignificant that the
electronic device did not penetrate the structure's walls. n254 In doing so, the
Court rejected the property-based approach to electronic surveillance, instead
embracing Brandeis's articulation of the "right to be let alone." n255 It has
restated this refrain many times since. n256

    Despite the doctrinal shift in Katz, existing Fourth Amendment doctrine
provides no clear protection from government surveillance conducted through an
amalgamation of FRT algorithms and other data. That Court made clear that "what
a person knowingly exposes to the public, even in his own home or office, is not
a subject of Fourth Amendment protection." n257 Accordingly, the Court has held
that, because "the exterior of a car . . . is thrust into the public eye, . . .
to examine it does not constitute a 'search.'" n258 Nor is there a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the phone numbers "voluntarily conveyed . . . to the
telephone company and 'exposed' . . . in the ordinary course of business." n259
There is no reasonable expectation of privacy in abandoned property, like
garbage left out for collection, n260 or in the movements of an automobile on
public thoroughfares. n261

    As a consequence, the collection of a faceprint does not constitute a search
under the Court's longstanding view that "mere visual observation does not
constitute a search." n262 Non-consensual facial scanning amounts to  [*442]  no
more than visual observation of what is held out to the public. To the extent
that FRT is considered part and parcel of the traditional visual surveillance
that police conduct in unmarked vehicles--which has long been considered
constitutional n263 --the Fourth Amendment does not apply. FRT also targets an
area of the body that a person would not reasonably expect to consider private.
The Court has held that the taking of a photograph does not constitute a search
because "it does not involve a physical intrusion onto the person" and does not
"invade[] any recognized 'expectation of privacy.'" n264 Insofar as FRT enables
law enforcement to identify a subject from an anonymous photo, moreover, Hiibel
v. Sixth Judicial District Court n265 suggests that such identification is
constitutional. n266 There, the Court rejected a Fourth Amendment challenge to a
law requiring people to identify themselves during a police stop on the theory
that "answering a request to disclose a name is likely to be so insignificant in
the scheme of things as to be incriminating only in unusual circumstances." n267
In dissent, Justice Stevens highlighted the ability to attach a name to "a broad
array of information about the person" which, "in turn, can be tremendously
useful in a criminal prosecution." n268

    Even if the Fourth Amendment were construed to broaden the meaning of
"search" to encompass FRT, it would be an empty victory for privacy advocates.
Many smartphones contain FRT technology, n269 and private citizens snap and
upload countless images onto Facebook each day. Aside from the Thirteenth
Amendment's ban on slavery, n270 the Constitution--and thus Brandeis's
constitutional formulation of a right to be let alone--applies only "as against
the Government." n271 If private parties employ FRT, the Constitution is not
triggered. Those concerned that government will obtain  [*443]  existing FRT
data through private channels have no apparent constitutional remedy if
governmental use of such data effectively results in indiscriminate, twenty-four
hour passive surveillance.

    Relatedly, the Supreme Court "has held repeatedly that the Fourth Amendment
does not prohibit the obtaining of information revealed to a third party and
conveyed by him to Government authorities." n272 There is no Fourth Amendment
ban on the use of information obtained through government informants, for
example, n273 even though they "frustrate actual expectations of privacy." n274
The Court has also upheld the warrantless installation of pen registers to
record numbers dialed from a subject's home on the theory that "telephone
subscribers [do not] harbor any general expectation that the numbers they dial
will remain secret." n275 It has condoned government scrutiny of documents
provided to accountants, n276 banks, n277 and physicians, n278 because such
documents "contain only information voluntarily conveyed" and the individual
"takes the risk . . . that the information will be conveyed by that person to
the Government." n279 With the advent of the Internet, lower courts have applied
the third-party doctrine to justify government subpoenas of shared computer
files, information sent or received through the Internet and stored on a
third-party server, n280 and individual subscriber information obtained from
Internet service providers without a  [*444]  warrant. n281 By treating public
exposure and third-party access to personal information as waivers of Fourth
Amendment protections, modern doctrine offers a difficult path to erecting
protections against government surveillance conducted by piecing together
various public and private sector data with images posted online or captured in
plain sight.

    2. Digital Age

    The Court has grappled for decades with the related question of whether--and
the extent to which--government can use technology to enhance its ability to
"see" what is arguably exposed to the public. It held in 1983 that there is no
legitimate expectation of privacy in the interior of a car illuminated by a
flashlight because "the use of artificial means to illuminate a darkened area
simply does not constitute a search." n282 Three years later, it found that
warrantless naked-eye aerial observation of a fenced-in backyard was not
unreasonable under the Fourth Amendment as "any member of the public flying in
this airspace who glanced down could have seen everything that these officers
observed." n283

    In 2001, however, the Court recognized emerging technologies' privacy
implications when it decided that the use of thermal imaging technology to
measure heat emanating from a home was a search because it amounted to "more
than naked-eye surveillance" with "a device that is not in general public use."
n284 As Justice Alito recently described it, Kyllo v. United States n285 was "a
decision about the use of new technology." n286 Writing for the majority in
Florida v. Jardines, n287 Justice Scalia similarly distinguished Kyllo as a case
involving surveillance technology that allows law enforcement to learn details
"that would previously have been unknowable without physical intrusion." n288 He
reached the conclusion that a drug-sniffing police  [*445]  dog deployed from
the front porch of a home constituted a Fourth Amendment search despite "the
antiquity" of forensic dogs as an investigative tool because there was no
implicit license or invitation for the police to approach the home for the
purpose of obtaining incriminating evidence inside. n289

    Earlier, in City of Ontario v. Quon, n290 the Court similarly highlighted
the novelty of new technology as relevant to whether the user of a
government-issued pager had a reasonable expectation of privacy in messages
retained by the service provider. Sidestepping the Fourth Amendment question on
the merits, Justice Kennedy cautioned that it "must proceed with care when
considering the whole concept of privacy expectations in communications made on
electronic equipment," else it "risks error by elaborating too fully on the
Fourth Amendment implications of emerging technology before its role in society
has become clear." n291 He explained that modern judges are not "on so sure a
ground" as the Katz Court was in relying on "its own knowledge and experience to
conclude that there is a reasonable expectation of privacy in a telephone
booth." n292 "Rapid changes in the dynamics of communication and information
transmission are evident not just in the technology itself but in what society
accepts as proper behavior," he continued, and "cell phone and text message
communications are so pervasive that some persons may consider them to be
essential means . . . for self-expression, even self-identification," thus
potentially "strengthening the case for an expectation of privacy." n293

    Two additional cases highlight the modern Court's struggle with fitting
modern technologies within the existing Fourth Amendment rubric. In United
States v. Jones, n294 the Court held that the warrantless installation of a
global positioning system ("GPS") device to monitor the location of a person's
car constituted a search because the police "physically occupied private
property for the purpose of obtaining information." n295 Justice Scalia thus
revived for the majority the old, property-based approach to the Fourth
Amendment n296 instead of taking an arguably more obvious tactic: applying
United States v. Knotts n297 for the proposition that there is "no reasonable
expectation of privacy in [a driver's] movements from one place to anoth  [*446]
er." n298 Declaring Katz the inexclusive test, Justice Scalia confined it to
"situations involving merely the transmission of electronic signals without
trespass," n299 while conceding that electronic surveillance "without an
accompanying trespass" of a GPS device could amount "an unconstitutional
invasion of privacy" in a future case. n300

    Justice Sotomayor n301 --and, separately, Justice Alito, n302 joined by
Justices Ginsberg, Breyer, and Kagan--expressed concern that modern technology
is eroding individuals' ability to be free of government monitoring. She wrote
that "electronic or other novel modes of surveillance can generate[] a precise,
comprehensive record of a person's public movements that reflects a wealth of
detail about her familial, political, professional, religious, and sexual
associations"--without any physical invasion of property. n303 The government,
she added, can store and mine such data indefinitely. n304 Because modern
electronic surveillance is cheap by comparison to traditional surveillance
techniques, it "proceeds surreptitiously" and "evades the ordinary checks that
constrain abusive law enforcement practices: 'limited police resources and
community hostility.'" n305 She referred to the Fourth Amendment's "goal to . .
. prevent 'a too permeating police surveillance'" n306 and questioned the
propriety of the third-party doctrine as "ill suited to the digital age, in
which people reveal a great deal of information about themselves to third
parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks," such as phone numbers,
URLs visited, corresponding email addresses, "and the books, groceries, and
medications they purchase" online. n307 Although some people might accept this
diminution of privacy as a "tradeoff" for access to technology or simply
"inevitable," she expressed "doubt that people would accept without complaint
the warrantless disclo  [*447]  sure to the Government of a list of every Web
site they had visited in the last week, or month, or year." n308

    For his part, Justice Alito focused on the problem of "long-term
monitoring," agreeing in principle with the majority that "we must 'assure
preservation of that degree of privacy against government that existed when the
Fourth Amendment was adopted.'" n309 Of course, he added, "it is almost
impossible to think of late-18th-century situations" analogous to the
capabilities of modern surveillance technology. n310 The majority's physical
trespass theory, he explained, "would provide no protection" to "long-term
monitoring . . . accomplished without committing a technical trespass," n311 yet
"for such offenses, society's expectation has been that law enforcement agents
and others would not--and indeed, in the main, simply could not--secretly
monitor and catalogue every single movement of an individual's car for a very
long period." n312 Justice Alito thus recognized that because "new devices" such
as closed-circuit television video monitoring, automatic toll collection systems
with recording technology, built-in GPS systems, and wireless tracking devices
embedded in cell phones "permit the monitoring of a person's movements" in ways
that were impossible before the digital age, traditional Fourth Amendment
analysis is inapposite. n313

    Maryland v. King n314 is the most recent case in which the Supreme Court
addressed the vexing intersection of technology and privacy under the Fourth
Amendment. At a booking on an arrest for assault, the police took a DNA sample
by applying a buccal swab to the inside of a suspect's cheek. n315 The DNA
matched that of a rape victim taken six years earlier, leading to the arrestee's
subsequent rape conviction. n316 The DNA matching occurred through the Combined
DNA Index System ("CODIS"), which connects DNA data at the national, state, and
local levels under FBI supervision. n317 On appeal, a Maryland court held that
the cheek swab was an unreasonable search under the Fourth Amendment. n318
Reversing, Justice Kennedy wrote for the majority that a Fourth Amendment search
occurred, but that it was reasonable and did not require a warrant. n319 For
him, identifying an arrestee properly connotes "more than just" linking a name
and social  [*448]  security number, but also "criminal history," aliases,
photographs, and any other information that the police can obtain by "searching
the records already in their valid possession," n320 such as "family ties,
employment status and history, financial resources, reputation, character and
mental condition, and length of residence in the community." n321 Justice
Kennedy suggested that DNA is a mere relative of fingerprinting, n322 and that
its value lies in allowing law enforcement "to make critical choices about how
to proceed," ensuring that the accused remains available for trial, and helping
protect the public from further harm--interests that, taken together, outweighed
the arrestee's privacy interests in King. n323

    Although King would appear to narrow the availability of Fourth Amendment
protections against invasive new technologies, three aspects of Justice
Kennedy's decision distinguish DNA sampling from the dragnet-style surveillance
of the general public which FRT makes possible. First, he emphasized that an
arrestee's diminished expectations of privacy are distinguishable from those of
"the public at large or a particular class of . . . law-abiding citizens." n324
Second, Justice Kennedy stressed that technology could progress to the point at
which the Fourth Amendment balance would be struck in the arrestee's favor, such
as if DNA showed a "predisposition for a particular disease or other hereditary
factors not relevant to identity." n325 It is thus possible that the Court would
condemn the warrantless use of FRT on law-abiding citizens for particularly
invasive purposes. Third, a Maryland statute forbidding the use of DNA for
anything other than identification "generally allayed . . . privacy concerns" at
issue in King. n326 In the absence of regulatory or statutory protections, the
Court might grant the Constitution a greater role in protecting particular zones
of privacy from unjustified government intrusion using FRT.

    Justice Scalia's dissenting opinion, joined by Justices Ginsberg, Sotomayor,
and Kagan, took issue with Justice Kennedy's characterization of King's DNA
matching as mere identification. n327 For Justice Scalia, Justice Kennedy
confused verification--the use of biometric data to confirm whether someone is
whom he appears to be--with identification, which, properly understood, is more
like "searching for evidence that [a person] has committed crimes unrelated to
the crime of his arrest." n328 It "taxes the credulity of the credulous,"
Justice Scalia quipped, to assert that the DNA  [*449]  in King was not in fact
used to solve crimes, n329 an aim "that has never been thought to justify a
suspicionless search." n330 Justice Scalia likened the practice to so-called
"general warrants" at the time of the Founding--those "not grounded upon a sworn
oath of a specific infraction by a particular individual, and thus not limited
in scope and application." n331 Justice Scalia also noted that the suspect's
identity was already known when the state ran his DNA through the CODIS system
long after he was arrested; the matching was thus performed in order to identify
the DNA sample from the rape--not to verify identity. n332 What DNA offers that
fingerprinting does not, he added, "is the ability to solve unsolved crimes, by
matching old crime-scene evidence against the profiles of people whose
identities are already known." n333 Justice Scalia warned that "if one believes
that DNA will 'identify' someone arrested for assault, he must believe that it
will 'identify' someone arrested for a traffic offense." n334 His dissent in
King is thus an acknowledgement that some constitutional limits must be placed
on the uses of surveillance technologies that enable government to create new
information by identifying correlations among otherwise disparate data points:
"Perhaps the construction of . . . a genetic panopticon is wise," he wrote, "but
I doubt that the proud men who wrote the charter of our liberties would have
been so eager to open their mouths for royal inspection." n335

    B. Anonymity and the First Amendment

    Separately, a line of First Amendment cases confirms that the privacy threat
posed by technologies like FRT--the government's unfettered identification and
monitoring of personal associations, speech, activities, and beliefs, for no
justifiable purpose--is one of constitutional dimension. In fact, the Supreme
Court has steadfastly protected anonymous speech. n336  [*450]

    The Court's repeated pronouncements that the First Amendment n337 safeguards
the right of anonymous speech--that is, the right to distribute written
materials without personal identification of the author--largely came about in
response to government attempts to mandate disclosures in public writings. n338
In Talley v. California, n339 the Court struck down a Los Angeles ordinance
restricting the distribution of a handbill "in any place under any
circumstances, which does not have printed on the cover . . . the name and
address of . . . the person who printed, wrote, compiled or manufactured the
same." n340 Finding that the law infringed on freedom of expression, the Court
observed that "anonymous pamphlets, leaflets, brochures and even books have
played an important role in the progress of mankind" by enabling persecuted
groups to criticize oppressive practices and other matters of public importance,
particularly where the alternative may be not speaking at all. n341

    The Talley Court n342 relied on two cases that linked anonymous speech with
the ability to freely associate in private. Both involved constitutional  [*451]
challenges n343 to laws requiring members of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People ("NAACP") to furnish government officials with its
member lists. In NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, n344 the lower court
imposed a $ 100,000 civil contempt fine after the organization refused to comply
with a court order requiring production of its lists. n345 The Supreme Court
lifted the judgment and fine, holding that "immunity from state scrutiny of
membership lists . . . is here so related to the right of the members to pursue
their lawful private interests privately" as to be constitutionally protected on
privacy and free association grounds. n346 Although "association" is not listed
among the First Amendment's enumerated freedoms, the Court declared in Talley
that "freedom to engage in association for the advancement of beliefs and ideas
is an inseparable aspect of . . . 'liberty.'" n347

    In Bates v. City of Little Rock, n348 the NAACP's records custodian was
tried, convicted, and fined for refusing to comply with state ordinances
requiring that membership lists "be public and subject to the inspection of any
interested party at all reasonable business hours." n349 The organization
claimed a right on the part of its members to participate in NAACP activities
anonymously and "free from any restraints or interference from city or state
officials"--a right that it felt "has been recognized as the basic right of
every American citizen since the founding of this country." n350 The Supreme
Court again struck down the ordinances, asserting that the freedom of speech, a
free press, freedom of association, and a right to peaceably assemble are
protected "from being stifled by such subtle governmental influence" as a
requirement to divulge membership lists. n351  [*452]

    Over four decades later, the Court in McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission
characterized anonymous speech as important to the preservation of personal
privacy. n352 In McIntyre, the plaintiff distributed leaflets opposing a school
superintendent's referendum which were anonymously attributed to "CONCERNED
PARENTS AND TAX PAYERS." n353 The Ohio Election Commission fined the plaintiff
for violating state laws banning the distribution of unsigned leaflets. n354 The
U.S. Supreme Court reversed a lower court ruling upholding the ordinance,
explaining that "an author's decision to remain anonymous . . . is an aspect of
the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment"--even if "the decision
in favor of anonymity is motivated . . . merely by a desire to preserve as much
of one's privacy as possible." n355 The Court extolled the virtues of anonymity
as fostering "great works of literature . . . under assumed names," enabling
groups to criticize the government without the threat of persecution, and
"providing a way for a writer who may be personally unpopular to ensure that
readers will not prejudge her message simply because they do not like its
proponent." n356 As "core political speech," it concluded, "no form of speech is
entitled to greater constitutional protection." n357

    Justice Stevens went on in his majority opinion to tether anonymity to the
purpose behind the Bill of Rights and the First Amendment: "to protect unpopular
individuals from retaliation--and their ideas from suppression--at the hand of
an intolerant society." n358 "Anonymity," he explained, "is a shield from the
tyranny of the majority." n359 In a concurring opinion, Justice Thomas commented
that the Founders' "practices and beliefs" on the subject "indicate[] that they
believed the freedom of the press to include the right to author anonymous
political articles and pamphlets." n360 "That most other Americans shared this
understanding," he added, "is reflected in the Federalists' hasty retreat before
the withering criticism of their assault on the liberty of the press." n361
Justice Scalia dissented, arguing that anonymity "facilitates wrong by
eliminating accountability, which is ordinarily its very purpose." n362 To treat
"all anonymous communication . . . in our society  [*453]  as traditionally
sacrosanct," he continued, "seems to me a distortion of the past that will lead
to a coarsening of the future." n363

    In Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. v. Village of
Stratton, n364 the Court struck down an ordinance requiring permits for
door-to-door canvassing as a prior restraint on speech but also because the law
vitiated the possibility of anonymous speech. n365 It characterized the permit
requirement as "resulting in a surrender of . . . anonymity"--even where
"circulators revealed their physical identities"--because "strangers to the
resident certainly maintain their anonymity." n366 The Court was thus unmoved by
the fact that speakers who ring doorbells necessarily make themselves physically
known to their audience, thus revealing themselves to some extent. For the
Court, it was the recognition that occurs when a name on a permit is connected
to a face which triggered the Constitution's protection of anonymity.

    Most recently, a fractured plurality in Doe v. Reed n367 upheld a state law
compelling public disclosure of the identities of referendum petition
signatories while squarely acknowledging the vitality of a First Amendment right
to anonymous speech. n368 Significantly, all but one Justice recognized that the
government's ability to correlate identifying information with online data
created a First Amendment hazard of unprecedented dimension. Writing for the
majority, Chief Justice Roberts found that an individual's expression of a
political view through a signature on a referendum petition implicated a First
Amendment right. n369 The Court nonetheless held that the state's interest in
preserving the integrity of the electoral process and informing the public about
who supports a petition justified the burdens of compelled disclosure. n370
Justice Roberts made a point of deeming "significant" the plaintiffs' argument
that, "once on the Internet," their names and addresses could be matched with
other publicly available information about them "in what will effectively become
a blueprint for harassment and intim  [*454]  idation." n371 Because the
majority only considered the facial challenge to the law, Justice Roberts found
the burdens imposed by "typical referendum petitions" unlike those that the
plaintiffs feared. n372

    Justice Alito wrote separately to emphasize that government access to
personal data online gave rise to a strong as-applied challenge based on the
"individual . . . right to privacy of belief and association." n373 He
considered "breathtaking" the implications of the state's argument that it has
an interest in providing information to the public about supporters of a
referendum petition; if true, "the State would be free to require petition
signers to disclose all kinds of demographic information, including the signer's
race, religion, political affiliation, sexual orientation, ethnic background,
and interest-group memberships." n374 Justice Alito added that the posting of
names and addresses online could allow "anyone with access to a computer to
compile a wealth of information about all of those persons," with vast potential
for use in harassment. n375 Justice Thomas dissented on similar grounds,
asserting that he would sustain a facial challenge precisely because "the advent
of the Internet enables rapid dissemination of the information needed to
threaten or harass every referendum signer," thus "chilling protected First
Amendment activity." n376 Concurring separately, Justice Scalia stood alone in
his complete rejection of First Amendment protections for anonymous speech. n377
[*455]

    When considered in conjunction with the digital-age Fourth Amendment cases,
Doe is remarkable in its recognition of the pressures that modern technology
puts on the viability of existing constitutional doctrine relating to individual
privacy. Although Jones addressed GPS monitoring under the Fourth Amendment,
Justice Sotomayor invoked the First Amendment to emphasize that "awareness that
the Government may be watching chills associational and expressive freedoms,"
and that "the Government's unrestrained power to assemble data that reveal
private aspects of identity is susceptible to abuse." n378 When inexpensive
technology is paired with massive amounts of readily accessible personal
information and "unfettered" government discretion to track individual citizens,
she explained, democracy itself suffers. n379 Although pre-digital-age Fourth
Amendment case law appears to paint FRT surveillance into a doctrinal corner, in
the right case the Supreme Court may well find constitutional limits on
surveillance conducted with cutting-edge technology like FRT and publicly
available data. The next Part offers guidelines derived from the Court's Fourth
and First Amendment jurisprudence which courts and legislators should bear in
mind in crafting legal limits on surveillance through technologies like FRT.
n380

    III.Reclaiming the Constitution's Role in Protecting Anonymity

    To address the privacy threats posed by modern technology, scholars have
argued for recognition of a wholesale constitutional right to anonymity, as well
as robust enforcement of First Amendment protections of that  [*456]  right in
the face of widespread technological surveillance of the public. n381 A plethora
of scholarship has also arisen in response to the problems of new technologies
under existing Fourth Amendment doctrine. Like Justice Sotomayor in Jones, some
commenters have called for the end of the third party doctrine, n382
reconsideration of the case law truncating the Fourth Amendment's reach in
public spaces, n383 and adoption of new theories for understanding the Fourth
Amendment guarantee altogether. n384

    This Part seeks to reclaim the Constitution's relevance in protecting
anonymity in the digital age by identifying points at which the Supreme Court's
First Amendment cases on anonymity and its modern Fourth Amendment jurisprudence
intersect. FRT and related technologies employ big data to make correlations
that help predict the future in ways that were impossible only a few years ago.
n385 It is through such correlations that FRT enables users to recognize--versus
merely see--a subject, and from that data erect a comprehensive portrait of that
person's past, present, and future life. At least three guidelines can be
inferred from the Court's First and Fourth Amendment cases which courts,
legislators, and regulators should take into account in responding to the
privacy challenges posed by such technologies' unlimited access to the
whereabouts, activities, interests, associations, and beliefs of virtually any
member of society. First, the intend  [*457]  ed use of technologically derived
data should be treated as a significant factor in assessing the proper
constitutional, statutory, and regulatory scope of government activity that has
the potential to expose an individual's privacy to scrutiny. Second, and
accordingly, the law should place boundaries around the ability of government to
match faceprints with other data points for purposes other than verification of
an individual's known identity. Third, courts and lawmakers should keep in mind
that legislative protection of an individual's ability to invoke
anonymity--through conspicuous and mandatory opt-out provisions for web
tracking, for example--is constitutionally prudent, if not necessary.

    A. Recognition Through Correlation

    As the First Amendment cases indicate, anonymity implies a freedom from
being recognized--versus just being seen. In spite of surveillance technology's
reach, people still expect to mostly avoid recognition while going about their
daily routines. As technology changes the way information is collected and used,
however, the viability of that assumption is eroding. Big data "is about
predictions." n386 It operates by "applying math to huge quantities of data in
order to infer probabilities," such as "the likelihood that an email message is
spam; that the typed letters 'teh' are supposed to be 'the'; that the trajectory
and velocity of a person jay-walking mean he'll make it across the street in
time" to avoid a driverless car; and even that a person is a criminal "before
one actually commits a crime." n387 It is the linkage of a faceprint with a
name, a Facebook tag, a driving record, and real-time footage from an airport or
ATM camera--not just the collection of the faceprint itself--which remains
unaccounted for in prevailing Fourth Amendment doctrine. The Supreme Court has
construed the First Amendment as protecting speech that enables recognition by
the government. If extended to the Fourth Amendment context, this idea would
help modernize what it means to perform a search with technology which does not
result in a physical trespass.

    In both the First and Fourth Amendment arenas, the Court has treated "the
right . . . to pursue . . . lawful private interests privately" as
constitutionally protected from government interference. n388 Yet it has never
suggested that the public disclosure of one's face is itself an act of
constitutional dimension. In addressing anonymity, the Court has instead drawn a
distinction between mere observance of "physical identities" and recogni  [*458]
tion. n389 A stranger knocking on a door might remain anonymous even though his
face is visible. A "surrender of . . . anonymity" takes place when the face is
linked to other identifying information, such as a name on a pamphlet. n390
Chief Justice Roberts extended this principle to modern technology when he
emphasized in Doe v. Reed that "once on the Internet" names and addresses
contained in referendum petitions could be matched with other data "in what will
effectively become a blueprint for harassment and intimidation." n391 Similarly,
Justice Alito deemed "breathtaking" the implications of the government's ability
to match referendum petition information with other online data. n392 And
Justice Thomas associated chilled speech with the "advent of the Internet" and
"rapid dissemination" of personal information that may be used "to threaten or
harass every referendum signer." n393 Forcing individuals to enable others to
recognize them through public writings is anathema to First Amendment freedoms
of speech and association. n394

    Standing alone, a photo is likewise of limited investigative utility. "With
big data," its value "is now in secondary uses." n395 FRT works by
"electronically matching aspects of each person's appearance against biometric
or other databases." n396 Using a single image, government can "probe our lives
after the fact" by, for example, "figuring out what specific medical or social
problem led . . . to a certain source of help." n397 It does this by drawing
correlations between a faceprint and other information contained in databases or
online. In his concurring opinion in Whalen v. Roe, n398 Justice Brennan was
presciently "troubled" by "the central computer storage of the data . . .
collected" back in 1977 because it allowed government to manipulate information
in ways that could harm privacy interests--even though the Fourth Amendment did
not shield the information itself from  [*459]  government scrutiny in that
case. n399 In his view, "the central storage and easy accessibility of
computerized data vastly increase the potential for abuse of that information."
n400 "Future developments," he suggested, might one day "demonstrate the
necessity of some curb on such technology." n401 In United States v. Knotts, the
Court similarly acknowledged that, if "dragnet type law enforcement practices"
such as twenty-four-hour surveillance "without judicial knowledge or supervision
. . . should eventually occur, there will be time enough then to determine
whether different constitutional principles may be applicable." n402

    That time has come. Technology has progressed to the point at which FRT and
big data can be used to make predictions about people's behavior. This occurs
through the analysis of "the statistical relationship between two data values."
n403 "If A often takes place together with B," law enforcement might conclude
that "we need to watch out for B to predict that A will happen." n404 A
correlation between the two data points assumes that if one data value changes,
the other is likely to change as well. n405 In the foregoing example, B operates
as a proxy for what is probably happening with A, even if A's future activity
cannot be directly observed. n406 Target stores' marketing toward mothers-to-be
provides an impactful example of the power of big-data correlations in the
private sector. By reviewing the shopping histories of women with baby
registries, Target identified products that correlate with pregnancy and
calculated "pregnancy prediction" scores for new customers; it then sent
customers coupons tailored to individual due dates that it estimated with
astonishing accuracy. n407 Similarly, although a faceprint algorithm in and of
itself is just a numerical record of something that has already been made
public, the correlation of that data with other information for predictive
surveillance is altogether different. "The data may not even explicitly seem
like personal information, but with big-data processes it can easily be traced
back to the individual it refers to. Or intimate details about a person's life
can be deduced." n408

    The Supreme Court's view that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy
in things made public has thus been criticized for narrowly defining  [*460]
privacy as mere secrecy. n409 Correlating an image with other data contained in
a database is more intrusive than mere visual surveillance. People do not expect
that many passersby recognize their faces, let alone associate them with
Internet behavior or travel patterns. n410 Even if the gathering of a faceprint
from a public closed-circuit camera is unobjectionable, its correlation with
other big data produces new surveillance information that the subject did not
knowingly convey.

    The First Amendment anonymity cases indicate that the action of correlating
FRT data with other information for purposes of identifying an otherwise
anonymous person therefore should trigger the same constitutional scrutiny that
applies to other means of surveillance such as the GPS device in Jones. n411
Whether the government retrieves the requisite image through a classic physical
invasion of property should not determine whether the correlation process is
constitutionally confined. Nor should the public or third-party nature of the
data collected undermine the Constitution's role in protecting against the use
of such data for omnipresent government monitoring. Instead, as the Court
implied in Jardines, n412 new technology should be afforded distinct modes of
Fourth Amendment analysis. The action of correlating numerical faceprints with
other data amounts to "more than naked-eye surveillance of a home" with "a
device that is not in general public use" under Kyllo's formulation. n413 As
Justice Sotomayor explained in Jones, modern methods of government monitoring
rely on data mining and storage, "proceed[] surreptitiously" and cheaply, and
"evade[] the ordinary checks that constrain abusive law enforcement practices."
n414 Technology has enabled the government to "generate[] a precise,
comprehensive record of a person's public movements that reflects a wealth of
detail about her familial, political, professional, religious, and sexual
associations." n415 This novel use of bits of data defies what Justice Alito
called "society's expectation . . . that law enforcement agents and others would
not--and indeed, in  [*461]  the main, simply could not--secretly monitor and
catalogue [one's] every single movement" over a long period of time. n416

    B. Limited Use of Data

    The Court's First Amendment approach to anonymity and its Fourth Amendment
treatment of technology in the digital age further suggest that, doctrinally,
the collection of data might be constitutional for one use but not for another.
FRT analysis allows users to make predictions about a subject's behavior which
can be tremendously useful in preventing crime but also hugely problematic in
terms of personal privacy and autonomy. Even if the collection of personal data
through public interfaces is lawful, the Constitution could confine the extent
to which law enforcement can employ new technologies for predictive
surveillance.

    In their opinions in Doe, Justices Alito and Thomas suggested that there is
a meaningful distinction under the First Amendment between using personal
information contained on referendum petitions for verification and using the
information for other purposes. n417 Unlike verification, identification links a
face with a wealth of personal information about an individual from the Internet
and other public and private sources, such as birth date and place, medical
data, affiliated friends and organizations, and criminal history. This data can
be put toward law enforcement aims that go well beyond verification that a
person is in fact whom he claims to be. Justice Scalia emphasized as much in his
Maryland v. King dissent, when he assailed the majority for characterizing the
government's use of the suspect's DNA as unrelated to crime solving. n418 He
explained in great detail how the police employed the DNA sample to "solve
unsolved crimes, by matching old crime-scene evidence against the profiles of
people whose identities were already known." n419 In Jardines, as well, Justice
Scalia suggested that the intended use of a technology (such as a drug-sniffing
dog) is an important element of the Fourth Amendment analysis. n420 He
distinguished between licensed and unlicensed entries into a curtilage (e.g.,
knocking on a door versus arriving with a bloodhound or a metal detector) and
suggested that "an invitation to engage in canine forensic investigation
assuredly does not inhere in the very act of hanging a knocker." n421 As to the
reasonableness  [*462]  of a search, Justice Scalia similarly observed that it
"depends upon whether the officers had an implied license to enter the porch,
which in turn depends upon the purpose for which they entered." n422

    If--unlike the DNA in King--faceprints were used for surveillance of common
citizens, a majority of the Court might find that the Fourth Amendment applies
to limit the use of such data for secondary purposes that include identification
versus mere verification of identity. The First Amendment anonymity cases
provide insight into how courts might determine whether a secondary use of
faceprint data is constitutional. In McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission, for
example, the Court credited the state's interest in preventing fraud and libel
during elections "when false statements, if credited, may have serious adverse
consequences for the public at large," but found it insufficient under the
"exacting scrutiny" applicable to core political speech. n423 Under that
standard, "the simple interest in providing voters with additional relevant
information" did not justify the anonymity ban, which did little to help voters
evaluate the pamphlet's message. n424

    By the same token, "the FBI shouldn't be in the business of monitoring
demonstrations unless it has a cause, a tip, a reason." n425 In order to develop
meaningful constitutional distinctions between the various possible uses of
facial data collected in the public sphere, the Court's identification of the
government's rationale for collecting personal information in the First
Amendment cases could be extrapolated to the Fourth Amendment context. In other
words, if anonymity warrants constitutional protection under the First
Amendment, some requisite showing should be made before the government can
perform a matching that results in monitoring of an individual's activity as a
matter of Fourth Amendment law, as well. n426 Lower courts have held that before
the government can utilize fingerprint evidence gathered from the general
public, it must demonstrate probable cause. If the government cannot show
probable cause, it must at least show an articulable suspicion to believe that
the person committed a criminal offense and that fingerprinting will establish
or negate the person's connection to the offense. n427 FRT should be treated no
differently. n428 Whether fash  [*463]  ioned as probable cause, reasonable
suspicion, or something else, First Amendment doctrine suggests that the
government should have to justify its correlation of FRT data with other
information to form a working profile of citizens who otherwise abide by the
law. n429

    C. The Importance of Choice

    With the exception of Doe, an important distinguishing feature of the First
Amendment anonymity cases is the involvement of legislative attempts to coerce
the disclosure of personal identities. FRT presents a particularly difficult
problem under prevailing constitutional law because most faces are routinely
exposed in public. No domestic law requires that a person's facial features be
unobstructed while she maneuvers about in public places so that the government
can use them for identification purposes. Her visage is there for the
government's taking. Technology has thus become deterministic of personal
privacy today. Yet there is no reciprocal power on the part of individuals to
direct how technology will evolve in relationship  [*464]  to their privacy
interests or even to opt out of its implications for their daily lives.

    The First Amendment anonymity cases and Fourth Amendment doctrine assume
that a person possesses the discretion to take steps to protect communications
or other effects from governmental intrusion--that is, by keeping personal
information private. In the First Amendment context, the Court has upheld
private individuals' ability to choose to keep their identities anonymous in
some respect. Indeed, the fact that the McIntyre plaintiff simultaneously
disclosed her identity in other pamphlets was irrelevant to the Court's analysis
and ultimate conclusion that her choice to remain anonymous was protected by the
First Amendment. n430 In the Fourth Amendment arena, disclosure operates as a
waiver of sorts, but the Court has taken pains to identify how the subject of
police inquiry could have effectively invoked constitutional protections by
keeping information private. In both contexts, the underlying assumption
supporting the Court's analyses of the constitutional guarantee at issue is that
citizens have a choice and--caveat emptor--if they choose public disclosure, the
Constitution cannot save them from the consequences of that choice.

    Facebook's FRT features are active by default. n431 It takes six clicks to
reach a disclosure that Facebook uses FRT. n432 Apple's iPhoto does not have an
opt-out function at all. n433 Currently, there are no laws requiring private
entities to provide individuals with notice that they are collecting personal
data using FRT, how long that data will be stored, whether and how it will be
shared, or how it will be used. n434 Other countries have regulations that give
Internet users control over their own data. n435 In the United States, however,
private companies are free to sell, trade, and profit from individuals'
biometric information. Private companies can also disclose individuals' data to
government authorities without their consent. n436  [*465]

    Fourth and First Amendment law is remarkably consistent in its deference to
the subject's choice to remain anonymous or put information into the public
domain. If people protect their privacy, the Constitution protects it too. In
modern times, the problem with this tautology is that the concept of choice
implies that there is more than one meaningful option. With FRT and other
emerging technologies, there is no mechanism for opting out of the various
sources that are amalgamated into what amounts to surveillance. The theory
behind the Fourth Amendment doctrines that lift its protections for information
disclosed publicly or to third parties is thus unsustainable.

    Accordingly, the recognition of anonymity as a constitutional value that
warrants protection under the First and Fourth Amendments may require "numerous
safeguards" in place for forestalling "indiscriminate disclosure," as Justice
Brennan suggested in Whalen. n437 In his words, whether sophisticated storage
and matching technology "amounts to a deprivation of constitutionally protected
privacy interests" might depend in part on congressional or regulatory
protections put in place to forbid the government's use of big data for
arbitrary monitoring of the populace without individuals' consent. n438 This
will not be easy. Choosing to "opt out" of Google's tracking technologies itself
leaves a trace, and technology exists to "re-identify" people whose personal
identifiers, such as name, address, credit card information, birth date, and
social security number had been removed from a dataset. n439 But constitutional
limits on the government's ability to work around individuals' attempts to
protect their privacy would be an important step toward rescuing the
constitutional value of anonymity before FRT and big data are used to do more
than simply predict who may commit crimes--i.e., to punish people for future
acts. n440  [*466]

    Conclusion

    The writing is on the wall. One day soon, "your phone -- or in some years
your glasses and, in a few more, your contact lenses -- will tell you the name
of that person at the party whose name you always forget . . . . Or it will tell
the stalker in the bar the address where you live," or it will tell the police
where you have been and where you are going. n441 FRT is rapidly moving society
toward a world in which the Constitution's scope needs to be meaningfully
reformulated, else it risks irrelevance when it comes to individuals' ability to
hide from the prying eyes of government. n442 The third party doctrine and the
longstanding judicial rejection of a reasonable expectation of privacy in
matters made public have depleted the Fourth Amendment of vitality for purposes
of establishing constitutional barriers to the government's use of FRT to
profile and monitor individual citizens. Although the Court has expressly
affirmed protections for anonymous speech under the First Amendment, that
doctrine has not been extended to address the harms that flow from dragnet-style
surveillance. Yet every member of the modern Court has at some point recognized
that technology necessitates a rethinking of traditional constitutional
boundaries.

    This Article argued that existing First Amendment protections for anonymity
should be brought to bear in assessing how Fourth Amendment doctrine can adapt
to the challenges of modern surveillance methods. Today, the conglomerate of
publicly available data is colossal and constantly expanding. Technology enables
the government and private companies to identify patterns within such data which
reveal new information that does not exist anywhere in isolation. As a
consequence, information in the digital age is fundamentally distinct from
information in the pre-digital age, in which the Court's Fourth Amendment
doctrine evolved. This Article thus identified constitutionally derived
guidelines for courts and lawmakers to consider in crafting judicial,
legislative, and regulatory responses to the government's newfound capacity to
create new information from storehouses of data gleaned from social media sites,
public cameras, and increasingly sophisticated technologies like FRT. By giving
these guidelines serious consideration, courts and lawmakers can tether
foundational constitutional protections against over-surveillance with the
development of the law--law that is otherwise broken and outdated.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Computer & Internet LawCriminal OffensesSearch & SeizureComputer & Internet
LawPrivacy & SecurityInvasion of PrivacyConstitutional LawBill of
RightsFundamental FreedomsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  The field of biometrics encompasses numerous methodologies for identifying
humans by their biological or behavioral characteristics or traits. See
Biometrics, MERRIAM-WEBSTER.COM,
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/biometrics (last visited Nov. 16,
2013).




n2  Dana Blanton, Fox News Poll: Mixed Views on NSA Surveillance Program,
FOXNEWS.COM (June 25, 2013),
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2013/06/25/fox-news-poll-mixed-views-on-nsa-surv
eillance-program/.




n3  John W. Whitehead, Smile, the Government Is Watching: Next Generation
Identification, RIGHT SIDE NEWS (Sept. 17, 2012, 12:07 PM),
http://www.rightsidenews.com/2012091717049/editorial/us-opinion-and-editorial/sm
ile-the-government-is-watching-next-generation-identification..




n4  See GEORGE ORWELL, 1984, at 5, 169-70 (New Am. Library 1983) (1949).




n5  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n6  See James Risen, Report Indicates More Extensive Cooperation by Microsoft on
Surveillance, N.Y. TIMES (July 11, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/12/us/report-indicates-more-extensive-cooperation
-by-microsoft-on-surveillance.html (reporting on internal NSA documents
indicating that "Microsoft had helped the security agency find ways to
circumvent its encryption on its Outlook.com portal's encrypted Web chat
function," given the agency "access to e-mail," and "provided the F.B.I. with
access to its SkyDrive service").




n7  Whitehead, supra note 3 (discussing surveillance drones and noting that
"police departments across the country are now being equipped with the Mobile
Offender Recognition and Information System, or MORIS, a physical iPhone add-on
that allows officers patrolling the streets to scan the irises and faces of
individuals and match them against government databases"); see also JAY STANLEY
& CATHERINE CRUMP, AM. CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, PROTECTING PRIVACY FROM AERIAL
SURVEILLANCE: RECOMMENDATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT USE OF DRONE AIRCRAFT 6-8 (2011),
available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/assets/protectingprivacyfromaerialsurveillance.pdf;
Carol Cratty, FBI Uses Drones for Surveillance in U.S., CNN.COM (June 20, 2013,
7:27 AM), http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/19/politics/fbi-drones.




n8  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n9  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 351 (1967).




n10  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 443 (1976).




n11  VIKTOR MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & KENNETH CUKIER, BIG DATA: A REVOLUTION THAT
WILL TRANSFORM HOW WE LIVE, WORK, AND THINK 19 (2013).




n12  See Christopher Slobogin, Government Data Mining and the Fourth Amendment,
75 U. CHI. L. REV. 317, 323 (2008).




n13  MYRON BRENTON, THE PRIVACY INVADERS 225 (1964). Justice Brandeis observed
in his Olmstead dissent that "ways may some day be developed by which the
Government, without removing papers from secret drawers, can reproduce them in
court." Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 474 (1928) (Brandeis, J.,
dissenting), overruled in part by Katz, 389 U.S. 347.




n14  DANIEL J. SOLOVE, UNDERSTANDING PRIVACY 5 (2008).




n15  See, e.g., Orin S. Kerr, The Fourth Amendment and New Technologies:
Constitutional Myths and the Case for Caution, 102 MICH. L. REV. 801, 802-04 &
n.7 (2004) (noting that "the view that the Fourth Amendment should be
interpreted broadly in response to technological change has been embraced by
leading theorists of law and technology" and citing numerous law review articles
regarding the same).




n16  Alessandro Acquisti, Privacy and Security of Personal Information: Economic
Incentives and Technological Solutions, in THE ECONOMICS OF INFORMATION SECURITY
179 (L. Jean Camp & Stephen Lewis eds., 2004); see generally SOLOVE, supra note
14, at ix, 1 ("There is no overarching conception of privacy--it must be mapped
like terrain, by painstakingly studying the landscape. . . . Currently, privacy
is a sweeping concept, encompassing (among other things) freedom of thought,
control over one's body, solitude in one's home, control over personal
information, freedom from surveillance, protection of one's reputation, and
protection from searches and interrogations.").




n17  See Daniel J. Solove, A Taxonomy of Privacy, 154 U. PA. L. REV. 477, 483-84
(2006).




n18  Professor Anita Allen distinguishes the two primary usages of the term
"privacy" as, on the one hand, "conditions of restricted access," including
anonymity, physical separation or isolation from others, and information
nondisclosure, and, on the other hand, privacy as liberty--that is, "freedom
from governmental or other outside interference with decisionmaking and conduct,
especially respecting appropriately private affairs." Anita L. Allen, Taking
Liberties: Privacy, Private Choice, and Social Contract Theory, 56 U. CIN. L.
REV. 461, 464-66 (1987) (footnotes omitted); cf. Robert C. Post, Three Concepts
of Privacy, 89 GEO. L.J. 2087, 2092 (2001) (discussing privacy as control of
knowledge, a protector of dignity--which is most relevant to the Fourth
Amendment--and a means of implementing freedom). In this Article, only the
restricted access form of privacy is at issue under Professor Allen's rubric.




n19  See NASA v. Nelson, 131 S. Ct. 746, 751 (2011) ("We assume, without
deciding, that the Constitution protects such a privacy right . . . ."); Nixon
v. Adm'r of Gen. Servs., 433 U.S. 425, 457 (1977) (characterizing such interest
as "one element of privacy"); Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 599-600 (1977)
(noting that the Court's privacy cases have implicated "the individual interest
in avoiding disclosure of personal matters" as well as "the interest in
independence in making certain kinds of important decisions").




n20  Scholars have divided data collection into subcategories, including "tool
data," which encompasses data--such as social security numbers and dates of
birth--that is valued for its utility versus its content; "biographical data,"
which is "the product of . . . behavior in public places" and includes
residence, routines, and friends; and "transactional data," which is information
generated by interactions with professionals such as doctors, accountants, and
lawyers, as well as vendors of goods and services. Susan W. Brenner, The Fourth
Amendment in an Era of Ubiquitous Technology, 75 MISS. L.J. 1, 54 n.247 (2005)
(citing sources).




n21  A third foundational prong of privacy is decisional privacy, or the right
to make fundamental decisions--such as the use of contraception methods--without
governmental interference. See Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, 485
(1965).




n22  Anonymity is a conception of privacy which may be captured in the
literature under different names. Cf. SOLOVE, supra note 14, at ix, 1
(identifying freedom from surveillance as a concept embraced by the term).




n23  Christopher Slobogin, Public Privacy: Camera Surveillance of Public Places
and the Right to Anonymity, 72 MISS. L.J. 213, 238 (2002).




n24  132 S. Ct. 945 (2012).




n25  Id. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (quoting People v. Weaver, 909
N.E.2d 1195, 1199 (N.Y. 2009)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n26  Taken to the extreme, true autonomy is the ability to hide from others
without a trace. It has some positive value, such as in the situation where
government informants assume a new identity for their own protection. It is also
problematic to the extent that it enables wrongdoers to evade responsibility for
their actions. See generally Anne Wells Branscomb, Anonymity, Autonomy, and
Accountability: Challenges to the First Amendment in Cyberspaces, 104 YALE L.J.
1639, 1641-43 (1995). In the online environment, "anonymity can be used to
violate another's privacy." Id. at 1661 (quoting Posting of L. Detweiler,
ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu, to alt.privacy et al. (Sept. 20, 1993),
available at http://www.websteruniv.edu/bumbaugh/net/net-anon.pt2).




n27  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 13.




n28  Tom Gerety, Redefining Privacy, 12 HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 233, 268 (1977).




n29  JEREMY BENTHAM, THE PANOPTICON WRITINGS 35 (Miran Bozovic ed., 1995).




n30  Id. at 31.




n31  See MICHEL FOUCAULT, DISCIPLINE AND PUNISH: THE BIRTH OF THE PRISON 195,
201 (Alan Sheridan trans., 2d ed. 1995) (1977).




n32  Slobogin, supra note 23, at 240.




n33  Jonathan Turley, Registering Publius: The Supreme Court and the Right to
Anonymity, CATO SUP. CT. REV. 2001-2002, at 57, 75-76, 82. Jonathan Turley has
identified six additional benefits of anonymity in the area of free speech: (1)
protecting against persecution for unpopular speech; (2) preventing
disenfranchisement from public debate and participatory politics; (3)
encouraging pluralistic value and thoughts; (4) protecting spontaneous speech
which "is the type of speech that occurs between neighbors"; (5) enhancing
privacy values by enabling people "to separate their personal home life from
their public advocacy"; and (6) protecting Internet speech, in particular, as
the looming "threat of government surveillance" makes the Internet a rare site
of anonymous discourse that can "remain[] raw and uninhibited." Id. at 75-78;
see also id. at 77, 83 (noting that loss of anonymity signifies a loss of
freedom).




n34  Samuel D. Warren & Louis D. Brandeis, The Right to Privacy, 4 HARV. L. REV.
193, 193 (1890).




n35  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 15. The right to be left alone has been critiqued
as too broad in and of itself. Id. at 18. "If privacy simply meant 'being let
alone,' . . . a punch in the nose would be a privacy invasion as much as a peep
in the bedroom." Id. (quoting ANITA L. ALLEN, UNEASY ACCESS: PRIVACY FOR WOMEN
IN A FREE SOCIETY 7 (1988)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n36  William L. Prosser, Privacy, 48 CALIF. L. REV. 383, 389 (1960).




n37  LISA S. NELSON, AMERICA IDENTIFIED: BIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETY 94-97
(2011); see also Slobogin, supra note 23, at 273-86 (discussing earlier poll
data on surveillance).




n38  Matthew Tokson, Automation and the Fourth Amendment, 96 IOWA L. REV. 581,
622-29 (2011).




n39  Christopher Slobogin & Joseph E. Schumacher, Reasonable Expectations of
Privacy and Autonomy in Fourth Amendment Cases: An Empirical Look at
"Understandings Recognized and Permitted by Society," 42 DUKE L.J. 727, 737-39
(1993).




n40  Andrew W. Senior & Sharathchandra Pankanti, Privacy Protection and Face
Recognition, in HANDBOOK OF FACE RECOGNITION 671, 672 (Stan Z. Li & Anil K. Jain
eds., 2d ed. 2011).




n41  NELSON, supra note 37, at 174.




n42  Id. at 118.




n43  See id. at 158.




n44  Id. at 157 (citing Robert Putnam, Bowling Together, AM. PROSPECT (Jan. 18,
2002), http://prospect.org/article/bowling-together-0).




n45  Id. at 114-17.




n46  Rob Quinn, Poll: 78% Now OK with More Surveillance Cameras, NEWSER.COM (May
1, 2013),
http://www.newser.com/story/167141/poll-78-now-ok-with-more-surveillance-cameras
.html.




n47  Violet Blue, Why You Should Be Worried About Facial-Recognition Technology,
CNET.COM (Aug. 29, 2012, 1:58 PM),
http://news.cnet.com/8301-10233-57502284-93/why-you-should-be-worried-about-faci
al-recognition-technology/ (citing remarks by Privacy Rights Clearinghouse
Director Beth Givens).




n48  Zeke J Miller, Poll: Americans More Concerned About Civil Liberties in Wake
of Boston Bombing, TIME (May 1, 2013),
http://swampland.time.com/2013/05/01/poll-americans-more-concerned-about-civil-l
iberties-in-wake-of-boston-bombing/.




n49  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 5.




n50  Anecdotally, when asked about privacy and the Internet, "law students
argued strongly in favor of a right to anonymity." Turley, supra note 38, at 75.




n51  JONATHAN FRANZEN, Imperial Bedroom, in HOW TO BE ALONE 39, 40 (2003)
(observing that what is missing in the modern discussion of privacy and
technology is "a genuinely alarmed public").




n52  Brenner, supra note 20, at 41 (citing ROBERT ELLIS SMITH, BEN FRANKLIN'S
WEB SITE: PRIVACY AND CURIOSITY FROM PLYMOUTH ROCK TO THE INTERNET 17, 19
(2000)).




n53  DAVID H. FLAHERTY, PRIVACY IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 76 (1972).




n54  Brenner, supra note 20, at 41 (citing SMITH, supra note 52, at 19-20).
"Even husbands and wives sometimes shared their bedrooms with lodgers or other
members of the family." FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 77. One woman who shared a
bed with an unmarried couple later testified that "the Bed was very Narrow on
which they three were and thinks it almost if not wholly impossible that they
should be guilty of that Crime intercourse without her knowledge and She
observed no such thing." Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).




n55  Brenner, supra note 20, at 40-41 (quoting GINI GRAHAM SCOTT, MIND YOUR OWN
BUSINESS: THE BATTLE FOR PERSONAL PRIVACY 24 (1995)).




n56  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 170. Connecticut law from 1636 read that "no
man that is neither married, nor hath any servant, nor is a publick Officer
shall keep house of himself without consent of the Town where he lives." ANDREW
J. CHERLIN, THE MARRIAGE-GO-ROUND: THE STATE OF MARRIAGE AND THE FAMILY IN
AMERICA TODAY 41 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n57  SMITH, supra note 52, at 10.




n58  Brenner, supra note 20, at 41.




n59  SMITH, supra note 52, at 10; see also CHERLIN, supra note 56, at 41
(explaining, in the verbiage of the times, that selectmen of a Massachusetts
town met in the 1670s "to setel the younge persons in such families in the Town
as is most sutable for thier good" (internal quotation marks omitted)).




n60  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 175; see also CHERLIN, supra note 56, at 41
("In part, these laws reflected the reality that living alone was nearly
impossible in an environment where people needed family members to help them
obtain the food, clothing, and shelter they needed to survive.").




n61  SMITH, supra note 52, at 10.




n62  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 179 ("The residents of seventeenth-century New
England regarded the desire to live alone with suspicion. Morality and the
economic interests of the state were better served if everyone lived in a
family. Yet this was not an expression of total hostility to the value of
privacy. . . . By the latter part of that century experience in America had
shown that it was possible to live alone and not become a burden on the
community.").




n63  Brenner, supra note 20, at 83.




n64  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 115 ("In colonial America, of course,
conversations could only occur in the physical presence of someone else.").




n65  Brenner, supra note 20, at 82-83.




n66  Id. at 83.




n67  Id. (citing WALTER BESANT, LONDON IN THE TIME OF THE STUARTS 53 (1903))
(describing seizure of the "papers" of James Howell, who was a suspected spy).




n68  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 119.




n69  Id. at 120 (quoting Post Office (Revenues) Act, 1710, 9 Ann., c. 11, § 41)
(internal quotation marks omitted).




n70  See SMITH, supra note 52, at 25 ("For letter writers in the Colonial
period, the consequences were serious if their writings were disclosed,
especially if the messages appeared to defy the Crown or to be otherwise
suspicious. . . . To be safe, letter writers developed means for preserving the
confidentiality of their correspondence and codes for disguising their words.");
see also FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 118 ("Others employed codes, shorthand, or
nicknames when writing to friends, particularly on political topics.").




n71  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 118.




n72  Michael T. Gibson, The Supreme Court and Freedom of Expression from 1791 to
1917, 55 FORDHAM L. REV. 263, 294 & n.203 (1986).




n73  96 U.S. 727 (1877).




n74  Id. at 733.




n75  Brenner, supra note 20, at 83.




n76  See Thomas Y. Davies, Correcting Search-and-Seizure History: Now-Forgotten
Common-Law Warrantless Arrest Standards and the Original Understanding of "Due
Process of Law," 77 MISS. L.J. 1, 8 (2007).




n77  See Hans A. Linde, State Constitutional Law, in 5 ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE
AMERICAN CONSTITUTION 2495, 2496 (Leonard W. Levy & Kenneth L. Karst eds., 2d
ed. 2000) ("Constitutional entrenchment of individual rights began with the
earliest state constitutions . . . and is universal throughout the states,
though the statements of rights differ. The common tradition includes . . .
freedom from warrantless and unreasonable searches and seizures . . . .").




n78  U.S. CONST. amend. IV ("The right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable
cause . . . .").




n79  California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 217 (1986) (Powell, J., dissenting)
(quoting Johnson v. United States, 333 U.S. 10, 14 (1948)).




n80  United States v. Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1, 7-8 (1977), abrogated by California
v. Acevedo, 500 U.S. 565 (1991).




n81  Id. at 8.




n82  Turley, supra note 33, at 61.




n83  Id. at 58.




n84  See Kurt T. Lash & Alicia Harrison, Minority Report: John Marshall and the
Defense of the Alien and Sedition Acts, 68 OHIO ST. L.J. 435, 438 (2007)
(describing how the Acts allowed for deportations of those considered aliens and
criminalized political opposition to the government).




n85  See id. The statutes lapsed in 1801, after which the Supreme Court declared
that there was no federal jurisdiction over state law criminal charges for
seditious libel. United States v. Hudson, 11 U.S. (7 Cranch) 32, 34 (1812).




n86  514 U.S. 334 (1995).




n87  Id. at 361 (Thomas, J., concurring in the judgment).




n88  Id. at 360; see generally Gregory E. Maggs, A Concise Guide to the
Federalist Papers as a Source of the Original Meaning of the United States
Constitution, 87 B.U. L. REV. 801, 802 (2007).




n89  Victoria Smith Ekstrand, Unmasking Jane and John Doe: Online Anonymity and
the First Amendment, 8 COMM. L. & POL'Y 405, 406 (2003); see also Turley, supra
note 33, at 59.




n90  McIntyre, 514 U.S. at 361 (Thomas, J., concurring in the judgment) (citing
Henry Laurens' Notes of Debate (July 3, 1779), in 13 LETTERS OF DELEGATES TO
CONGRESS 1774-1789, at 139, 141 n.1 (Paul H. Smith et al. eds., 1986)).




n91  Id. at 362 (citing Dwight L. Teeter, Press Freedom and the Public Printing:
Pennsylvania, 1775-83, 45 JOURNALISM Q. 445, 451 (1968)).




n92  Turley, supra note 33, at 59-60 & nn.11-23 (footnotes omitted) (identifying
who actually used these names, where possible).




n93  McIntyre, 514 U.S. at 369 (Thomas, J., concurring) (citing Alexander
Hamilton, Pacificus No. 1, June 29, 1793, in 15 THE PAPERS OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON
33-43 (H. Syrett ed. 1969); James Madison, Helvidius No. 1, Aug. 24, 1793, in
THE PAPERS OF JAMES MADISON 66-73 (Thomas A. Mason, Robert A. Rutland & Jeanne
K. Sisson eds., 1985)); see also id. at 361-62 (Thomas, J., concurring)
(providing additional examples of anonymous speech).




n94  Turley, supra note 33, at 61.




n95  Craig D. Uchida, The Development of the American Police: An Historical
Overview 8 (Dec. 2004) (manuscript), available at
http://storage.globalcitizen.net/data/topic/knowledge/uploads/200904?.pdf.




n96  DANIEL J. SOLOVE & PAUL M. SCHWARTZ, PRIVACY, INFORMATION, AND TECHNOLOGY
85 (2d ed. 2009); see also CLAUDE S. FISCHER, AMERICA CALLING: A SOCIAL HISTORY
OF THE TELEPHONE TO 1940, at 71, 225 (1992).




n97  Warren & Brandeis, supra note 34, at 195.




n98  Brenner, supra note 20, at 32 (citing Ken Gormley, One Hundred Years of
Privacy, 1992 WIS. L. REV. 1335, 1351) (internal quotation marks omitted); see
SMITH, supra note 52, at 124.




n99  VIKRANT VIJ, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION 1-2 (2010).




n100  DENNIS C. TANNER & MATTHEW E. TANNER, FORENSIC ASPECTS OF SPEECH PATTERNS:
VOICE PRINTS, SPEAKER PROFILING, LIE AND INTOXICATION DETECTION 60-61 (2004).




n101  See generally WILLIAM J. HERSCHEL, THE ORIGIN OF FINGER-PRINTING (1916).




n102  SOLOVE & SCHWARTZ, supra note 96, at 85; Erin Murphy, The Politics of
Privacy in the Criminal Justice System: Information Disclosure, the Fourth
Amendment, and Statutory Law Enforcement Exemptions, 111 MICH. L. REV. 485, 508
(2013). In 1934, Congress enacted § 605 of the Federal Communications Act, which
made unauthorized wiretapping a federal crime. Pub. L. No. 416, § 605, 48 Stat.
1064, 1103-04 (1934). Section 605 was amended in 1968 by Title III of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Pub. L. No. 90-351, tit. 3,
82 Stat. 197, 211-25 (1968) (codified at 18 U.S.C.  § § 2510-20 (2006)), and
again in 1986 by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), Pub. L. No.
99-508, 100 Stat. 1848 (1986) (codified as amended at 18 U.S.C.  § § 2510-2522
(2006)). Under the Wiretap Act, which is part of the ECPA, "courts can authorize
continuing surveillance--24 hours a day for a 30-day period, which can be
extended." DANIEL J. SOLOVE, MARC ROTENBERG & PAUL M. SCHWARTZ, PRIVACY,
INFORMATION, AND TECHNOLOGY 92 (2006).




n103  Melvin Gutterman, A Formulation of the Value and Means Models of the
Fourth Amendment in the Age of Technologically Enhanced Surveillance, 39
SYRACUSE L. REV. 647, 678-79 (1988) (footnotes omitted) (describing a positive
relationship between technological advances in surveillance and intrusion on
privacy).




n104  Id. at 678 n.162.




n105  See Dow Chem. Co. v. United States, 476 U.S. 227, 242-43 & n.4 (1986).




n106  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 4.




n107  Carrie Pixler, Note, Setting the Boundaries of the Census Clause:
Normative and Legal Concerns Regarding the American Community Survey, 18 WM. &
MARY BILL RTS. J. 1097, 1114 & n.118 (2010).




n108  See Passport Applications, NAT'L ARCHIVES,
http://www.archives.gov/research/passport/index.html (last visited Nov. 24,
2013) (citing Act of Aug. 18, 1856, 11 Stat. 52, 60).




n109  See id. (citing Act of May 22, 1918, Pub. L. No. 65-154, 40 Stat. 559; Act
of June 20, 1941, Pub. L. No. 77-113, 55 Stat. 252).




n110  Kent v. Dulles, 357 U.S. 116, 121 (1958) (citing 8 U.S.C.  § 1185).




n111  Urtetiqui v. D'Arcy, 34 U.S. (9 Pet.) 692, 699 (1835).




n112  LAWRENCE H. SELTZER, THE NATURE AND TAX TREATMENT OF CAPITAL GAINS AND
LOSSES 31 (1951).




n113  Revenue Act of 1862, 12 Stat. 432, 473.




n114  U.S. CONST. amend. XVI; see I.R.C.  § 6103(d)(1) (2006) (allowing
disclosure to enforce tax laws); id.  § 6103(h)(4)(D), (i) (authorizing
disclosure by court order).




n115  The First Social Security Number and the Lowest Number, SOC. SECURITY
ADMIN., http://www.ssa.gov/history/ssn/firstcard.html (last visited Nov. 20,
2013).




n116  Brenner, supra note 20, at 54 n.247.




n117  SOLOVE & SCHWARTZ, supra note 96, at 243-44.




n118  42 U.S.C.  § 1437z (2006); Murphy, supra note 102, at 509.




n119  Daniel J. Solove, Access and Aggregation: Public Records, Privacy and the
Constitution, 86 MINN. L. REV. 1137, 1139 (2002).




n120  Murphy, supra note 102, at 510.




n121  This Article does not distinguish between state and local police
departments, national law enforcement agencies, and federal agencies engaged in
national security functions, the last of which raise a host of different legal
and policy issues that are beyond the scope of this piece.




n122  Murphy, supra note 102, at 517-18 (citing various legislative provisions
for court-ordered disclosure of otherwise private information).




n123  See generally David Gray & Danielle Citron, The Right to Quantitative
Privacy, 98 MINN. L. REV. 62 (2013) (explaining that the gathering of
computerized employment, customer, and medical records by private and public
entities began in the 1960s and led to nearly fifty congressional hearings on
data privacy issues); see also infra notes 398-401 and accompanying text
(discussing Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589 (1977), in which the Court recognized a
constitutional interest in avoiding disclosure of personal information).




n124  Murphy, supra note 102, at 511.




n125  See Orin S. Kerr, The Mosaic Theory of the Fourth Amendment, 111 MICH. L.
REV. 311, 325 (2012); see generally Murphy, supra note 102, at 519-20
(discussing federal statutes governing the use of information collected by law
enforcement).




n126  Big Data: The Next Frontier for Innovation, Competition, and Productivity,
MCKINSEY GLOBAL INST.,
http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/mgi/research/technologyandinnovation/bigdatanex
tfrontierforinnovation (last visited Nov. 20, 2013) ("Users of services enabled
by personal-location data could capture $ 600 billion in consumer surplus.").




n127  U.S. CONST. art. II, § 1, cl. 1; id.  § 3. The ability of the President to
provide for national security, for example, is a power derived from the
enumerated powers of Article II, and it often allows the Executive branch
greater access to the personal information of private citizens. See generally
HAROLD HONGJU KOH, THE NATIONAL SECURITY CONSTITUTION: SHARING POWER AFTER THE
IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIR 67-72 (1990) (noting that the Constitution creates three
branches of government and vests them with powers that affect foreign affairs
and national security, but that because "most often, the text simply says
nothing about who controls certain domains . . . [such as] the conduct of covert
action," one must look to constitutional structure, statutes, and custom to
understand the source of such powers).




n128  Goldblatt v. Town of Hempstead, 369 U.S. 590, 594-95 (1962) (quoting
Lawton v. Steele, 152 U.S. 133, 137 (1894)); see also United States v. Morrison,
529 U.S. 598, 618-19 (2000) (observing that the Constitution created a federal
government of limited powers, while reserving a generalized police power to the
states). For a discussion of the origins and meaning of the term, see Santiago
Legarre, The Historical Background of the Police Power, 9 U. PA. J. CONST. L.
745 (2007).




n129  Kenneth Mann, Punitive Civil Sanctions: The Middleground Between Criminal
and Civil Law, 101 YALE L.J. 1795, 1810-11 (1992).




n130  Id. at 1811 n.56.




n131  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 8; see JAMES MANYIKA ET
AL., MCKINSEY GLOBAL INST., BIG DATA: THE NEXT FRONTIER FOR INNOVATION,
COMPETITION, AND PRODUCTIVITY 19 (2011), available at
http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/businesstechnology/bigthenextfrontierforinnovat
ion (click "Full Report" hyperlink).




n132  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 9.




n133  See id. at 9-10.




n134  Id. at 14.




n135  Id. at 11.




n136  Douglas Page, Crime Fighting's Next Big Deal, OFFICER.COM (Sept. 4, 2012),
http://www.officer.com/article/10773317/crime-fightings-next-big-deal.




n137  J. D. Heyes, NSA Social Spy Network Facebook to Use Facial Recognition
Technology to Track Individuals Across Photos, Videos, PRISON PLANET (June 24,
2012, 5:52 AM),
http://www.prisonplanet.com/nsa-social-spy-network-facebook-to-use-facial-recogn
ition-technology-to-track-individuals-across-photos-videos.html.




n138  KNOW PRIVACY, http://www.knowprivacy.org (last visited Nov. 20, 2013).




n139  See United States v. Ganoe, 538 F.3d 1117, 1127 (9th Cir. 2008) (using
peer-to-peer software); United States v. Courtney, No. 4:07CR261 JLH, 2008 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 109344, at *5-6 (E.D. Ark. Sept. 22, 2008) (employing chat rooms,
Internet searches, and social networking sites); United States v. Carter, 549 F.
Supp. 2d 1257, 1259-60 (D. Nev. 2008) (posting to a "hard core child pornography
message board" links to a dummy website to record the IP addresses of users);
see also United States v. Stults, 575 F.3d 834, 838 (8th Cir. 2009) (pinpointing
location using ISP address only); see generally DANIEL J. SOLOVE, THE DIGITAL
PERSON: TECHNOLOGY AND PRIVACY IN THE INFORMATION AGE 169, 175 (2004) ("We are
increasingly seeing collusion, partly voluntary, partly coerced, between the
private sector and the government."); Brandon T. Crowther, Comment,
(Un)Reasonable Expectation of Digital Privacy, 2012 BYU L. REV. 343, 359-60. But
see Martin Kaste, Google Explains How It Handles Police Requests for Users'
Data, NPR (Jan. 28, 2013, 3:34 AM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/01/28/170428992/google-posts-how-it-handles-requests-for
-users-data (reporting that Google recently posted a policy of requiring a
warrant before law enforcement can access certain categories of material,
possibly intended to "make it easier for the company to resist pressure from a
government agency looking for quiet cooperation," as legal requirements for
accessing online content are unclear).




n140  Page, supra note 136; see also Stephen E. Henderson, The Timely Demise of
the Fourth Amendment Third Party Doctrine, 96 IOWA L. REV. BULL. 39, 45 (2011)
("Whole categories of data are stored that never were before. If I wanted to
purchase a book in a time not so distant, I would enter a bookstore, browse in a
practically anonymous fashion, and make my purchase with cash. The bookstore
made no record of my identity other than the fleeting and casual memory of the
store clerk. But today if I want to purchase a book I am likely to do so online,
where not only the bookstore, but also my Internet service provider and payment
provider will make personal records. Indeed, the bookstore might not only record
what books I ultimately purchase, but every book I peruse. And these records are
stored in a digital format that permits, once an architecture has been
established, essentially costless searching and distribution.").




n141  Page, supra note 136; see generally The Science of Civil War: What Makes
Heroic Strife, ECONOMIST (April 21, 2012),
http://www.economist.com/node/21553006 (describing the development of computer
models to predict the outbreak and spread of civil conflict).




n142  See generally Roger Ebert, Review, Minority Report, ROGEREBERT.COM (June
21, 2012), www.rogerebert.com/reviews/minority-report-2002. Person of Interest
is a modern series that is similarly premised on the ability of computers to
predict crimes from data captured through omnipresent surveillance systems. Mary
McNamara, TV Review: 'Person of Interest,' L.A. TIMES (Sept. 22, 2011),
articles.latimes.com/print/2011/sep/22/entertainment/la-et-person-interest-20110
922.




n143  See Joyce W. Luk, Note, Identifying Terrorists: Privacy Rights in the
United States and the United Kingdom, 25 HASTINGS INT'L & COMP. L. REV. 223, 230
(2002).




n144  Antitza Dantcheva et al., Bag of Soft Biometrics for Person
Identification: New Trends and Challenges 6-7 (Jan. 8, 2010) (manuscript),
available at
http://www.eurecom.fr/en/publication/3247/download/mm-publi-32471.pdf.




n145  Luk, supra note 143, at 230.




n146  See Susan McCoy, Comment, O'Big Brother Where Art Thou? The Constitutional
Use of Facial-Recognition Technology, 20 J. MARSHALL J. COMPUTER & INFO. L. 471,
477 (2002).




n147  See id.




n148  See generally Marc Jonathan Blitz, Video Surveillance and the Constitution
of Public Space: Fitting the Fourth Amendment to a World that Tracks Image and
Identity, 82 TEX. L. REV. 1349, 1393 (2004).




n149 " Minority Report" Facial Recognition System Being Installed Across USA by
FBI; Everyone to Be Tracked, INT'L BUS. TIMES (Sept. 17, 2012, 1:04 PM),
http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/384897/20120917/minority-report-facial-recognitio
n-system-being-installed.htm#.UFcJLq6Sm70.




n150  Lucas D. Introna & Helen Nissenbaum, Facial Recognition Technology: A
Survey of Policy and Implementation Issues, CTR. FOR CATASTROPHE PREPAREDNESS &
RESPONSE, 11 (2009).




n151  See Christopher S. Milligan, Note, Facial Recognition Technology, Video
Surveillance, and Privacy, 9 S. CAL. INTERDISC. L.J. 295, 325-26 (1999).




n152  Introna & Nissenbaum, supra note 150, at 12.




n153  See id.




n154  Laura J. Nelson, Instant Facial Recognition Tech a Two-Edged Sword, L.A.
TIMES (Nov. 14, 2012),
http://articles.latimes.com/2012/nov/14/business/la-fi-face-first-20121114.




n155  See, e.g., Visual Casino Suite 6, BIOMETRICA,
http://www.biometrica.com/products.html (last visited Nov. 20, 2013) (corporate
website touting FRT product "Virtual Casino 6" for this purpose); Ellen
Nakashima, From Casinos to Counterterrorism, WASH. POST (Oct. 22, 2007),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/10/21/AR2007102101522.
html.




n156  Press Release, Artec Grp., Artec ID Unveils Next Generation of Biometric
3D Facial Recognition Technology for High-Traffic Walk Through Identification
Systems at ASIS International (Sept. 10, 2012), available at
http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/artec-id-unveils-next-generation-biometr
ic?d-facial-recognition-technology-high-traffic-1699489.htm.




n157  Jim Spencer, Facial Recognition: They Know Who You Are, STAR TRIBUNE (last
updated Aug. 17, 2012, 5:20 PM),
http://www.startribune.com/business/166593666.html?refer=y (quoting a marketing
director).




n158  Sarah Perez, Following Facebook's Shut Down of Face.com's Facial
Recognition API, Lambda Labs Debuts an Open Source Alternative, TECHCRUNCH.COM
(Sept. 4, 2012),
http://techcrunch.com/2012/09/04/following-facebooks-shut-down-of-face-coms-faci
al-recognition-api-lambda-labs-debuts-an-open-source-alternative/.




n159  See SceneTap: The Creepy App that Scans Bar-Goers' Faces, THE WEEK (May
23, 2012),
http://theweek.com/article/index/228281/scenetap-the-creepy-app-that-scans-bar-g
oers-faces.




n160  Sarah Freishtat, Just a Face in a Crowd? Scans Pick up ID, Personal Data,
WASH. TIMES (July 26, 2012),
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jul/26/just-a-face-in-a-crowd-scans-pic
k-up-id-personal-d/?page=all.




n161  See Somini Sengupta & Kevin J. O'Brien, Facebook Can ID Faces, but Using
Them Grows Tricky, N.Y. TIMES (Sept. 21, 2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/22/technology/facebook-backs-down-on-face-recogni
tion-in-europe.html?r=0 (noting that the developer Redpepper has stated that
"users would have to authorize the application to pull their most recent tagged
photographs"); Whitehead, supra note 3 ("A new Facebook application, Facedeals,
is being tested . . . which enables businesses to target potential customers
with specialized offers.").




n162  Alessandro Acquisti, Ralph Gross & Fred Stutzman, Presentation, Faces of
Facebook: Privacy in the Age of Augmented Reality (Aug. 4, 2011), available at
http://www.blackhat.com/docs/webcast/acquisti-face-BH-Webinar-2012-out.pdf.




n163  Bob Sullivan, Researchers Say They Can Guess Your SSN, NBCNEWS.COM (July
6, 2009, 7:59 PM),
http://www.nbcnews.com/technology/researchers-say-they-can-guess-your-ssn-6C1040
6565.




n164  Craig Timberg & Ellen Nakashima, State Photo-ID Databases Become Troves
for Police, WASH. POST (June 16, 2013),
http://articles.washingtonpost.com/2013-06-16/business/40012903?databases-facial
-recognition-systems-searches.




n165  Mariel Myers, Boston Bombings: How Facial Recognition Can Cut
Investigation Time to Seconds, CNET.COM (April 18, 2013, 5:56 PM),
http://news.cnet.com/8301-10093-57580367-83/boston-bombings-how-facial-recogniti
on-can-cut-investigation-time-to-seconds/.




n166  Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 164.




n167  Id.




n168  Id.




n169  Id. The software of a single private contractor, MorphoTrust USA, operates
in most government FRT systems. Id.




n170  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n171  Jesus Diaz, FBI's Sinister New $ 1 Billion Project Will Track Everyone by
Their Face, GIZMODO (Sept. 10, 2012, 1:44 PM),
http://gizmodo.com/5941926/fbis-sinister-new-1-billion-project-will-track-everyo
ne-by-their-face. In August 2012, the New York Police Department ("NYPD")
partnered with Microsoft to launch what it calls a "Domain Awareness System,"
which analyzes data collected from 3,000 closed-circuit video cameras, records
of 911 calls, license plate readers, historical crime reports, and radiation
sensors throughout the city. The NYPD can now instantly track where a particular
vehicle has been in recent days or weeks, pull up the driver's arrest records
and related 911 calls, and map his criminal history "to geospacially and
chronologically reveal crime patterns." Page, supra note 136.




n172  Darlene Storm, Undercover Cops Secretly Use Smartphones, Face Recognition
to Spy on Crowds, COMPUTERWORLD (Sept. 18, 2012, 12:50 PM),
http://blogs.computerworld.com/privacy/21010/undercover-cops-secretly-use-smartp
hones-face-recognition-spy-crowds.




n173  Id. Older video cameras did not have the resolution or connectivity to
work with FRT. Diaz, supra note 171.




n174  Storm, supra note 172 (quoting Josh Smith, Undercover Police Used
Smartphones to Keep Tabs on Protests in Tampa, NAT'L J. (Sept. 17, 2012),
http://www.nationaljournal.com/tech/used-to-monitor-tampa-protests-20120917)
(internal quotation marks omitted).




n175  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n176  Id.




n177  Id.; see David Jeffers, FBI Rolling Out High-Tech 'Big Brother' Monitoring
System, PC WORLD (Sept. 10, 2012, 6:58 AM),
http://www.pcworld.com/article/262071/fbirollingouthightechbrothermonitoringsyst
em.html. In 2002, it was reported that the Department of Defense was similarly
developing a Total Information Awareness project that would consist of a huge
database of personal financial, educational, health, and travel information
about individuals, obtained from private sector companies. In response to a
public outcry, Congress voted to deny funding for the initiative. Shannon R.
Anderson, Total Information Awareness and Beyond: The Dangers of Data Mining
Technology to Prevent Terrorism, BILL OF RTS. DEF. COMM., 3 (July 26, 2004),
http://www.bordc.org/data-mining.pdf.




n178  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n179  Id.




n180  The FBI claims not to be mining such data at this time. See Eric
Lichtblau, F.B.I. Data Mining Reached Beyond Initial Targets, N.Y. TIMES (Sept.
9, 2007),
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/09/washington/09fbi.html?pagewanted=all. With an
FRT search from his smartphone, a detective in Carlisle, Pa., recently
identified a suspect by linking a Facebook image with a mug shot database.
Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 166.




n181  Sengupta & O'Brien, supra note 161.




n182  Hearing on "What Facial Recognition Technology Means for Privacy and Civil
Liberties," Before the Subcomm. on Privacy, Tech. and the Law of the S.
Judiciary Comm., 112th Cong. 1 (2012) (questions for the record from Sen. Al
Franken for Rob Sherman), available at
http://www.judiciary.senate.gov/resources/transcripts/upload/071812QFRs-Sherman.
pdf.




n183  Data Use Policy, FACEBOOK, https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy/other
(last visited Nov. 20, 2013).




n184  Glenn Greenwald & Ewen MacAskill, NSA Prism Program Taps in to User Data
of Apple, Google and Others, GUARDIAN (June 6, 2013),
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2013/jun/06/us-tech-giants-nsa-data. Section 702
of the FISA Amendments Act, 50 U.S.C.  § 1881a, authorizes
intelligence-gathering on non-U.S. citizens for up to a year and has been cited
by Director of National Intelligence James Clapper as the legal authority for
the Prism program. Sam Stein, PRISM Program: Obama Administration Held 22
Briefings for Congress on Key FISA Law, HUFFINGTON POST (June 10, 2013, 4:01
PM), http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/06/10/prism-program-obaman3416973.html.




n185  Danielle Keats Citron & David Gray, Addressing the Harm of Total
Surveillance: A Reply to Professor Neil Richards, 126 HARV. L. REV. F. 262, 264
(2013).




n186  See Press Release, Iowa State Univ., Iowa State Professor Weighs Benefit
vs. Risk of Facial Recognition Technology (May 8, 2013), available at
http://www.news.iastate.edu/news/2013/05/08/.




n187  See Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 166 ("The increasingly widespread
deployment of the technology in the United States has helped police find
murderers, bank robbers and drug dealers, many of whom leave behind images on
surveillance videos or social-media sites that can be compared against official
photo databases.").




n188  Id. At this point, "an affidavit for a warrant could then be automatically
generated, electronically signed and forwarded to a judge. Once granted,
investigators could use a code to enter an encrypted portal to the telephone
service provider and get GPS coordinates that lead right to the suspect." Page,
supra note 136.




n189  See Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1987 (2013) (Scalia, J.,
dissenting) ("Fingerprints of arrestees are taken primarily to identify them
(though that process sometimes solves crimes) . . . .").




n190  See generally id. (discussing the distinction between fingerprinting and
DNA analysis for purposes of solving crimes versus verifying identities).




n191  Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 166.




n192  Id.




n193  Id.




n194  Id. In the European Union, Facebook turned off its FRT after regulators
deemed it a threat to privacy. Chris Smith, Facebook Turns Off Facial
Recognition Tech in EU, TECHRADAR.COM (Sept. 22, 2012),
http://www.techradar.com/us/news/internet/web/facebook-turns-off-facial-recognit
ion-tech-in-eu-1099104; see also Sengupta & O'Brien, supra note 161 (noting that
Facebook also agreed to "delete the data used to identify Facebook users by
their pictures"); Blue, supra note 47 (discussing actions by other EU
countries). A Washington, D.C., advocacy group has filed a complaint against
Facebook with the Federal Trade Commission over its tagging feature. Sengupta &
O'Brien, supra note 161.




n195  Spencer, supra note 157.




n196  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n197  JOHN VACCA, BIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGIES AND VERIFICATION SYSTEMS 376 (2007).




n198  Id.




n199  Introna & Nissenbaum, supra note 150, at 3, 18, 38-39.




n200  Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa & Afzel Noore, Recognizing Face Images with
Disguise Variations 149, 151, 156 (June 1, 2008) (manuscript), available at
http://cdn.intechopen.com/pdfs/5898/InTech-Recognizingfaceimageswithdisguisevari
ations.pdf.




n201  Madison Ruppert, FBI Sharing Facial Recognition Software with Police
Departments Across America, END THE LIE (Aug. 24, 2012),
http://endthelie.com/2012/08/24/fbi-sharing-facial-recognition-software-with-pol
ice-departments-across-america/#axzz2fwTGPWgr. The FBI has indicated that only
authorized law enforcement agencies have access to its data, which does not
currently include photos from social media sites. Critics claim, however, that
the FBI does intend to search social media sites with FRT technology. Kathleen
Hickey, FBI to Open Facial Recognition Searches to Police Nationwide, GCN.COM
(Aug. 20, 2012),
http://gcn.com/articles/2012/08/20/fbi-facial-recognition-software-open-to-polic
e.aspx.




n202  The sole purpose of the creation of social security numbers, for example,
was to facilitate record keeping and determine the amount of social security
taxes to credit to each contributor's account. By 1961, however, the IRS began
using social security numbers for tax identification purposes. See Bijon Roy, A
Case Against Biometric National Identification Systems (NIDS): "Trading-Off"
Privacy Without Getting Security, 19 WINDSOR REV. LEGAL & SOC. ISSUES 45, 75-76
(2005); see also Tom Cheshire, 25 Big Ideas for 2012: Ubiquitous Face
Recognition, WIRED (Jan. 9, 2012, 9:22 AM),
http://www.wired.com/business/2012/01/ubiquitous-face-recognition (noting that
there are concerns over FRT mission creep and quoting a security technology
expert as saying that "recognizing people in photographs works well . . . but
attempts to pick terrorists out of crowds have failed, resulting in systems that
do a great job surveilling innocents and a terrible job identifying the guilty"
(internal quotation marks omitted)).




n203  PEW RESEARCH CENTER, PUBLIC SAYS INVESTIGATE TERRORISM, EVEN IF IT
INTRUDES ON PRIVACY: MAJORITY VIEWS NSA PHONE TRACKING AS ACCEPTABLE ANTI-TERROR
TACTIC 1 (2013), available at
http://www.people-press.org/files/legacy-pdf/06-10-13%20PRC%20WP%20%?20Release.p
df (reporting that, as of June 2013, 56 percent of Americans believe that Prism
is an acceptable way for the government to investigate terrorism).




n204  Many cities have begun equipping buses with security cameras. William
Neuman, Equipment Problems Delay Plan for Cameras on Buses, N.Y. TIMES (March
29, 2007), http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/29/nyregion/29bus.html?r=0.




n205  ANITA L. ALLEN, UNPOPULAR PRIVACY: WHAT MUST WE HIDE? 17 (2011) (quoting
Daniel J. Solove, Privacy and Power: Computer Databases and Metaphors for
Information Privacy, 53 STAN. L. REV. 1393, 1418 (2001)) (internal quotation
marks omitted). In 1897, a study found that the presence of other riders caused
cyclists to pedal faster. Matthew Lynch, Closing the Orwellian Loophole: The
Present Constitutionality of Big Brother and the Potential for a First Amendment
Cure, 5 FIRST AMENDMENT L. REV. 234, 271 & n.136 (2007) (citing Norman Triplett,
The Dynamogenic Factors in Pacemaking and Competition, 9 AM. J. PSYCHOL. 507,
533 (1898)); see also Slobogin, supra note 23, at 242-47, 251 (describing
empirical research on the effects of being watched).




n206  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 57.




n207  Solove, supra note 17, at 494.




n208  Jeffrey Rosen, The Purposes of Privacy: A Response, 89 GEO. L.J. 2117,
2122 (2001).




n209  See Slobogin, supra note 23, at 217; infra Part II.B (discussing FRT and
the First Amendment).




n210  Carla Scherr, Note, You Better Watch Out, You Better Not Frown, New Video
Surveillance Techniques Are Already in Town (and Other Public Spaces), 3 I/S:
J.L. & POL'Y FOR INFO. SOC'Y 499, 505 (2007) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n211  Solove, supra note 17, at 555.




n212  Id. at 536-37.




n213  Id. at 508-09, 523; cf. id. at 509 (discussing United States Department of
Justice v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, 489 U.S. 749 (1989), in
which the Supreme Court found that disclosure of FBI rap sheets containing
aggregated information--otherwise public--violated a privacy exemption of the
Freedom of Information Act).




n214  Id. at 507.




n215  Id. at 508-09, 523.




n216  See Danielle Keats Citron, Technological Due Process, 85 WASH. U. L. REV.
1249, 1274 (2008).




n217  See Ken Dilanian & Janet Stobart, White House OKd Spying on Allies, U.S.
Intelligence Officials Say, L.A. TIMES (Oct. 28, 2013, 7:25 PM),
http://www.latimes.com/world/la-fg-spying-phones-20131029,0,3235295.story#axzz2j
EB9FaoQ.




n218  See The 'Big Data' Revolution: How Number Crunchers Can Predict Our Lives,
NPR.ORG (Mar. 7, 2013, 3:00 AM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/03/07/173176488/the-big-data-revolution-how-number-crunc
hers-can-predict-our-lives (reporting that law enforcement is already engaged in
predictive policing).




n219  See Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S. 501, 503 (1976) ("The right to a fair
trial is a fundamental liberty secured by the Fourteenth Amendment. The
presumption of innocence, although not articulated in the Constitution, is a
basic component of a fair trial under our system of criminal justice." (citation
omitted)).




n220  U.S. CONST. amend. I.




n221  U.S. CONST. amend. III.




n222  U.S. CONST. amend. IV.




n223  U.S. CONST. amend. V. Although the Fifth Amendment protects against
compelled testimonial incrimination, it does not apply to compulsory
fingerprinting, photographing, taking measurements, writing or speaking for
identification purposes, having bodily fluids drawn, or DNA evidence because
they are not evidence of a communicative or testimonial nature. See Schmerber v.
California, 384 U.S. 757, 760-61, 764 (1966); Shaffer v. Saffle, 148 F.3d 1180,
1181 (10th Cir. 1998). FRT is capable of more than simply identifying a person's
face. It can be used to identify an individual as being at a specific location
at a specific time. The Fifth Amendment, however, does not limit the
government's collection of FRT data from private sources, or its subsequent use
of FRT for identification and surveillance of individuals. The Supreme Court has
repeatedly stated that "a party incriminated by evidence produced by a third
party sustains no violation of his own Fifth Amendment rights." Cal. Bankers
Ass'n v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 55 (1974) (citing additional cases). Hence, the
Fifth Amendment does not protect against subpoenas for a person's records and
papers held by third parties. Couch v. United States, 409 U.S. 322, 328, 333-35
(1973).




n224  381 U.S. 479 (1965).




n225  See generally Neil M. Richards, The Information Privacy Law Project, 94
GEO. L.J. 1087, 1089 (2006) (book review) ("Decisional privacy is usually
defined as the right of individuals to make certain kinds of fundamental choices
with respect to their personal and reproductive autonomy . . . .").




n226  Griswold, 381 U.S. at 484; see also Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 599 n.25
(1977) (quoting Griswold in Fourth Amendment case); Cal. Bankers, 416 U.S. at
78-79 (Powell, J., concurring) ("Financial transactions can reveal much about a
person's activities, associations, and beliefs. At some point, governmental
intrusion upon these areas would implicate legitimate expectations of
privacy."). In subsequent decisions, the privacy right has come to encompass
matters such as child rearing, procreation, and termination of medical treatment
as a matter of due process. Bowers v. Hardwick, 478 U.S. 186, 190 (1986),
overruled by Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003).




n227  Griswold, 381 U.S. at 484 (quoting U.S. CONST. amend. IV) (internal
quotation marks omitted).




n228  Blitz, supra note 148, at 1381.




n229  Schmerber v. California, 384 U.S. 757, 767 (1966).




n230  367 U.S. 643 (1961).




n231  Id. at 656.




n232  See supra note 223.




n233  Mapp, 367 U.S. at 657 (quoting Feldman v. United States, 322 U.S. 487,
489-90 (1944), overruled in part by Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of N.Y. Harbor,
378 U.S. 52, 74-75 (1964)).




n234  See, e.g., Gutterman, supra note 103, at 651 (arguing that "fourth
amendment jurisprudence will be best served by adhering to a 'value-dominated
model' that is capable of reconciling the competing privacy interests with
modern technological surveillance"); Kerr, supra note 125, at 311 (analyzing a
"'mosaic theory' of the Fourth Amendment, by which courts evaluate a collective
sequence of government activity as an aggregated whole to consider whether the
sequence amounts to a search").




n235  See Susan W. Brenner, Law in an Era of Pervasive Technology, 15 WIDENER
L.J. 667, 669 (2006) (characterizing twenty-first century "pervasive technology"
as the "antithesis of context-specific technologies such as rail transportation"
and observing that "the goal and practice of pervasive technology is to
integrate sophisticated interactive technologies into the fabric of our daily
lives").




n236  See, e.g., Dow Chem. Co. v. United States, 476 U.S. 227, 239 (1986)
(concluding the Fourth Amendment analysis when aerial surveillance was found not
to be a search).




n237  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 361 (1967) (Harlan, J., concurring).




n238  Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 31-33 (2001).




n239  California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 211 (1986).




n240  Hale v. Henkel, 201 U.S. 43, 76 (1906), overruled in part on other grounds
by Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of N.Y. Harbor, 378 U.S. 52, 69 (1964); see also
2 WAYNE R. LAFAVE, SEARCH AND SEIZURE § 4.13(a) (5th ed. 2012) ("Although the
Supreme Court has stated in dicta that the Fourth Amendment continues to limit
the subpoena power of the government, the Court has rejected Fourth Amendment
objections to subpoenas in every case it has decided in modern times." (footnote
omitted)).




n241  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968). Reasonable suspicion is a lower
standard than probable cause; it requires "specific and articulable facts which,
taken together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant
that intrusion." Id. at 22.




n242  Ferguson v. City of Charleston, 532 U.S. 67, 74 n.7 (2001).




n243  Skinner v. Ry. Labor Execs.' Ass'n, 489 U.S. 602, 633-34 (1989)
(employment); New Jersey v. T.L.O., 469 U.S. 325 (1985) (schools).




n244  Whren v. United States, 517 U.S. 806, 811 n.2 (1996).




n245  Samson v. California, 547 U.S. 843, 850 (2006); see generally Rachael A.
Lynch, Note, Two Wrongs Don't Make a Fourth Amendment Right: Samson Court Errs
in Choosing Proper Analytical Framework, Errs in Result, Parolees Lose Fourth
Amendment Protection, 41 AKRON L. REV. 651, 669-70 (2008) (noting that "parolees
have an expectation of privacy somewhere between that of a probationer and a
prisoner" (footnote omitted)).




n246  An originalist might interpret the Constitution to argue that no general
right to privacy exists beyond the specific Bill of Rights guarantees because,
among other reasons, no such right is expressed in the plain language of the
Constitution. See Peter J. Smith, How Different Are Originalism and
Non-Originalism?, 62 HASTINGS L.J. 707, 711 (2011).




n247  277 U.S. 438 (1928), overruled in part by Katz v. United States, 389 U.S.
347 (1967).




n248  Id. at 478 (Brandeis, J., dissenting).




n249  116 U.S. 616 (1886).




n250  Id. at 630; see generally Margaret Jane Radin, Property and Personhood, 34
STAN. L. REV. 957, 998 (1982) (construing Boyd as treating property as
coextensive with personal privacy under the Fourth Amendment).




n251  389 U.S. 347 (1967).




n252  Id. at 353.




n253  Id. at 351.




n254  Id. at 353.




n255  Id. at 350.




n256  See, e.g., Doe v. Bolton, 410 U.S. 179, 213 (1973) (Douglas, J.,
concurring) ("The right of privacy . . . includes the privilege of an individual
to plan his own affairs, for, ' "outside areas of plainly harmful conduct, every
American is left to shape his own life as he thinks best, do what he pleases, go
where he pleases." '" (citation omitted) (quoting Kent v. Dulles, 357 U.S. 116,
126 (1958))); Eisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438, 453 n.10 (1972) (quoting
Stanley v. Georgia, 394 U.S. 557, 564 (1969)); Stanley, 394 U.S. at 564 ("Also
fundamental is the right to be free, except in very limited circumstances, from
unwanted governmental intrusions into one's privacy."); Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385
U.S. 374, 413 (1967) (Fortas, J., dissenting) ("[The right to privacy] is,
simply stated, the right to be let alone; to live one's life as one chooses,
free from assault, intrusion or invasion except as they can be justified by the
clear needs of community living under a government of law.").




n257  Katz, 389 U.S. at 351.




n258  New York v. Class, 475 U.S. 106, 114 (1986).




n259  Smith v. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735, 744 (1979).




n260  California v. Greenwood, 486 U.S. 35, 43 (1988).




n261  United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276, 281 (1983).




n262  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 953 (2012); see generally Douglas
A. Fretty, Face-Recognition Surveillance: A Moment of Truth for Fourth Amendment
Rights in Public Places, 16 VA. J.L. & TECH. 430, 441 (2011) (analyzing FRT
under Fourth Amendment law and suggesting that "government agencies have a
strong argument . . . that where people lack an expectation of not being
observed, they equally lack an expectation of not being recognized"); Scherr,
supra note 210, at 508 (arguing that video surveillance of actions within plain
view is not covered by the Fourth Amendment); Alexander T. Nguyen, Comment,
Here's Looking at You, Kid: Has Face-Recognition Technology Completely
Outflanked the Fourth Amendment?, VA. J.L. & TECH., Spring 2002, at 1, 7
(arguing that the Fourth Amendment "seems useless" in the context of FRT).




n263  See California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 213 (1986) (noting that officers
can make observations from public vantage points).




n264  Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1986 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting)
(quoting Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 360 (1967) (Harlan, J.,
concurring)) (citing Florida v. Jardines, 133 S. Ct. 1409, 1413-14 (2013)).




n265  542 U.S. 177 (2004).




n266  Id. at 191.




n267  Id.




n268  Id. at 196 (Stevens, J., dissenting).




n269  By 2017, it is expected that 665 million smartphones and tablets will have
FRT. Spencer, supra note 157.




n270  U.S. CONST. amend. XIII. There are also relatively rare exceptions under
the state action doctrine. See generally Gillian E. Metzger, Privatization as
Delegation, 103 COLUM. L. REV. 1367, 1412 (2003) (describing state action
doctrine).




n271  Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 478 (1928) (Brandeis, J.,
dissenting), overruled in part by Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 353
(1967).




n272  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 443 (1976) (citing United States v.
White, 401 U.S. 745, 752 (1971) (plurality opinion); Hoffa v. United States, 385
U.S. 293, 302 (1966); Lopez v. United States, 373 U.S. 427 (1963)).




n273  White, 401 U.S. at 748-49; see also Hoffa, 385 U.S. at 302 (no Fourth
Amendment protection for conversations with a colleague who turns out to be a
government agent); Lewis v. United States, 385 U.S. 206, 210 (1966) (same
regarding interactions with secret agent sent by the government to purchase
narcotics from defendant); Lopez, 373 U.S. at 437 (same regarding agent's use of
electronic recording equipment).




n274  White, 401 U.S. at 752; see generally Orin S. Kerr, The Case for the Third
Party Doctrine, 107 MICH. L. REV. 561, 566-70 (2009) (discussing cases and
arguing in favor of third party doctrine as it "ensures technological neutrality
of the Fourth Amendment by blocking the opportunistic use of third parties to
circumvent the basic balance of Fourth Amendment rules" and because it "is
needed to provide ex ante clarity"). Compare Henderson, supra note 140, at 44
(responding to Professor Kerr and arguing that the third party doctrine is
arbitrary), with Tokson, supra note 38, at 581 (arguing that information
provided only to automated systems does not result in a loss of privacy under
the third party doctrine).




n275  Smith v. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735, 741, 743 (1979).




n276  Couch v. United States, 409 U.S. 322, 335-36 (1973).




n277  Cal. Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 52 (1974).




n278  Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 602 (1977).




n279  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 442-43 (1976); see also United
States v. Payner, 447 U.S. 727, 731-32 (1980) (criminal defendant had no
standing to suppress documents illegally seized from a bank officer's briefcase
because he had no privacy interest in them).




n280  Junichi P. Semitsu, From Facebook to Mug Shot: How the Dearth of Social
Networking Privacy Rights Revolutionized Online Government Surveillance, 31 PACE
L. REV. 291, 338 (2011) (citing cases).




n281  See, e.g., United States v. Perrine, 518 F.3d 1196, 1204 (10th Cir. 2008);
see generally Semitsu, supra note 280, at 338 n.186 (citing cases). But see
Warshak v. United States, 490 F.3d 455, 473 (6th Cir. 2007) (holding that a
sender of electronic mail has a reasonable expectation of privacy in messages
residing with an ISP), vacated in part, 532 F.3d 521 (6th Cir. 2008).




n282  Texas v. Brown, 460 U.S. 730, 739-40 (1983) (plurality opinion); cf.
United States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696, 707 (1983) (finding no Fourth Amendment
barrier to the "sui generis" use of a drug-sniffing police dog).




n283  California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 213-14 (1986).




n284  Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 33, 40 (2001). As Katz itself
arguably falls into this category, the pre-digital and digital distinction is
not a hard and fast one; it is simply offered as a way of understanding how
Fourth Amendment doctrine must adapt to technology.




n285  533 U.S. 27 (2001).




n286  Florida v. Jardines, 133 S. Ct. 1409, 1425 (2013) (Alito, J., dissenting).
Chief Justice Roberts, along with Justices Kennedy and Breyer, joined the
dissent. Justice Kagan suggested that Kyllo governed. Id. at 1419 (Kagan, J.,
concurring).




n287  133 S. Ct. 1409 (2013).




n288  Id. at 1417 (quoting Kyllo, 533 U.S. at 40) (internal quotation marks
omitted).




n289  Id. at 1416-17.




n290  130 S. Ct. 2619 (2010).




n291  Id. at 2629-30.




n292  Id. at 2629.




n293  Id. at 2629-30. Only Justice Scalia declined to join in this sentiment,
although he did acknowledge that "applying the Fourth Amendment to new
technologies may sometimes be difficult." Id. at 2635 (Scalia, J., concurring in
part and concurring in the judgment).




n294  132 S. Ct. 945 (2012).




n295  Id. at 949. In reaching its holding, the majority thus undermined the
staying power of Katz's reasonable-expectation-of-privacy formulation for what
constitutes a Fourth Amendment search.




n296  Id.




n297  460 U.S. 276 (1983).




n298  Id. at 281. Similarly, in Florida v. Jardines, 133 S. Ct. 1409, 1416
(2013), Justice Scalia utilized an implied license theory to find that the use
of a drug-sniffing dog on a front porch of a home was a Fourth Amendment
violation--rather than the established rule that "with few exceptions, the
question whether a warrantless search of a home is reasonable and hence
constitutional must be answered no." Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 31
(2001).




n299  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 953.




n300  Id. at 954. Justice Powell similarly warned in his Ciraolo dissent that
"technological advances have enabled police to see people's activities and
associations, and to hear their conversations, without being in physical
proximity." California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 218 (1986) (Powell, J.,
dissenting).




n301  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring).




n302  Id. at 964 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment).




n303  Id. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (citations omitted); see also id.
at 962-94 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment).




n304  Id. at 955-56 (Sotomayor, J., concurring).




n305  Id. at 956 (quoting Illinois v. Lidster, 540 U.S. 419, 426 (2004)). FRT is
even more probative than GPS tracking, as it can be immediately associated with
a trove of online personal data, including browsing and buying habits and
intimate communications with people who would not be identified with a GPS
device.




n306  Id. (quoting United States v. Di Re, 332 U.S. 581, 595 (1948)).




n307  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 957.




n308  Id.




n309  Id. at 958 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment) (alteration in
original) (quoting Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 950 (majority opinion)) (internal
quotation marks omitted).




n310  Id.




n311  Id. at 961.




n312  Id. at 964.




n313  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 963.




n314  133 S. Ct. 1958 (2013).




n315  Id. at 1965.




n316  Id.




n317  Id. at 1968.




n318  King v. State, 42 A.3d 549, 581 (Md. 2012), rev'd, 133 S. Ct. 1958.




n319  King, 133 S. Ct. at 1965-66.




n320  Id. at 1971-72.




n321  Id. at 1973 (quoting MD. R. 4-216(f)(1)(C)) (internal quotation marks
omitted).




n322  Id. at 1971-72.




n323  Id. at 1972-73.




n324  Id. at 1978.




n325  King, 133 S. Ct. at 1979.




n326  Id. at 1980 (second alteration in original) (quoting NASA v. Nelson, 131
S. Ct. 746, 750 (2011)) (citing MD. CODE ANN., PUB. SAFETY § § 2-505(b)(1),
2-512(c) (LexisNexis 2011)).




n327  Id. at 1980 (Scalia, J., dissenting).




n328  Id. at 1982-83 (internal quotation marks omitted).




n329  Id. at 1980.




n330  Id. at 1983.




n331  King, 133 S. Ct. at 1980-81.




n332  Id. at 1984.




n333  Id. at 1989.




n334  Id.




n335  Id.




n336  As Justice Sotomayor suggested in Jones, the use of FRT and other
technologies for identifying and tracking people may well give rise to a First
Amendment claim in the appropriate case. See United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct.
945, 956 (2012) (Sotomayor, J., concurring). The aim of this Article is not to
outline or further define whether a justiciable First Amendment case can be
brought to limit the use of FRT for surveillance. Rather, it is to explore the
intersection of First Amendment cases involving anonymous speech and Fourth
Amendment privacy doctrine in the hopes of identifying a reinvigorated role for
the Constitution in limiting the application of new technologies to public or
third-party information for unprecedented surveillance. Arguably, the thesis has
substantive due process implications. It also raises important questions
regarding which branch of government is poised to enforce the constitutional
values espoused here. These issues are beyond the scope of this Article. The
Article more narrowly concludes that the anonymity value embodied in First
Amendment protections must be brought to bear in evolving Fourth Amendment
doctrine as well as legislative and regulatory responses to the privacy threats
posed by FRT and other technologies for surveillance, and it outlines
substantive guidelines for consideration in these efforts.




n337  U.S. CONST. amend. I (prohibiting the making of any "law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or
abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people
peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of
grievances").




n338  McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U.S. 334, 342 (1995) ("An author's
decision to remain anonymous, like other decisions concerning omissions or
additions to the content of a publication, is an aspect of the freedom of speech
protected by the First Amendment."). While anonymous speech is protected,
legislatures and courts have attempted to distinguish between "expressive"
anonymity and anonymity used in the furtherance of criminal activity (or as a
crime itself), referred to as "functional" anonymity. Though it is sometimes
difficult to draw a bright line between the two, courts generally find that the
latter does not warrant First Amendment protection. See Margot Kaminski, Real
Masks and Real Name Policies: Applying Anti-Mask Case Law to Anonymous Online
Speech, 23 FORDHAM INTELL. PROP. MEDIA & ENT. L.J. 815, 817-18 (2013).




n339  362 U.S. 60 (1960).




n340  Id. at 60-61 (citing L.A., CAL., MUN. CODE § 28.06 (1960)).




n341  Id. at 64-65; see also Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U.S. 479, 487-88 (1960)
(striking down as overly broad state statute requiring public school teachers to
file affidavits giving names of organizations to which they had belonged or
contributed within the preceding five years as a condition of employment). But
see New York ex rel. Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U.S. 63 (1928) (upholding state's
enforcement of membership disclosure laws against Ku Klux Klan); NAACP v.
Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U.S. 449, 465-66 (1958) (distinguishing Bryant on
its facts). See generally Comment, The Constitutional Right to Anonymity: Free
Speech, Disclosure and the Devil, 70 YALE L.J. 1084, 1088 (1961) (discussing
Zimmerman and other early Supreme Court cases bearing upon a constitutional
right to anonymity).




n342  Talley, 362 U.S. at 65.




n343  Bates v. City of Little Rock, 361 U.S. 516, 517 (1960); NAACP, 357 U.S. at
451. The claims were brought under the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process
Clause, which makes the First Amendment applicable to the states. See id.




n344  357 U.S. 449 (1958).




n345  Id. at 452-54.




n346  Id. at 462, 466. The NAACP Court took pains to note that the group had
made "an uncontroverted showing that on past occasions revelation of the
identity of its rank-and-file members has exposed these members to economic
reprisal, loss of employment, threat of physical coercion, and other
manifestations of public hostility," but the Court found no compelling state
interest in obtaining the lists. Id. at 462, 464.




n347  Id. at 460. In Griswold, Justice Douglas construed associational freedom
as falling within the First Amendment's "penumbra where privacy is protected
from governmental intrusion" and otherwise "necessary in making the express
guarantees fully meaningful." Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, 483 (1965);
see also Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 599 n.25 (1977) (quoting Griswold); Cal.
Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 78-79 (1974) (Powell, J., concurring)
("Financial transactions can reveal much about a person's activities,
associations, and beliefs. At some point, governmental intrusion upon these
areas would implicate legitimate expectations of privacy.").




n348  361 U.S. 516 (1960).




n349  Id. at 518.




n350  Id. at 520-21.




n351  Id. at 523.




n352  514 U.S. 334, 342, 347 (1995).




n353  Id. at 337 (internal quotation marks omitted).




n354  Id. at 338.




n355  Id. at 341-42.




n356  Id.




n357  Id. at 347.




n358  McIntyre, 514 U.S. at 357.




n359  Id. (citing J. S. MILL, ON LIBERTY AND CONSIDERATIONS ON REPRESENTATIVE
GOVERNMENT 1, 3-4 (R. B. McCallum ed., 1948)).




n360  Id. at 360, 364 (Thomas, J., concurring in the judgment).




n361  Id. at 364.




n362  Id. at 385 (Scalia, J., dissenting). Justice Scalia flatly rejected the
notion that "a 'right to anonymity' is such a prominent value in our
constitutional system that even protection of the electoral process cannot be
purchased at its expense." Id. at 379. In his view, "anonymity can still be
enjoyed by those who require it, without utterly destroying useful disclosure
laws." Id. at 380. Justice Scalia's answer is to require a showing of a
"'reasonable probability' that the compelled disclosure would result in
'threats, harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or private
parties,'" consistent with the disclosure requirements of the Federal Election
Campaign Act. Id. at 379 (quoting Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U.S. 1, 74 (1976) (per
curiam)).




n363  Id. at 379.




n364  536 U.S. 150 (2002).




n365  See Berger v. City of Seattle, 569 F.3d 1029, 1037-38 (9th Cir. 2009)
(discussing Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y).




n366  Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y, 536 U.S. at 166-67.




n367  130 S. Ct. 2811 (2010).




n368  Id. at 2815. Chief Justice Roberts wrote the majority opinion. Justices
Breyer, Alito, and Sotomayor each wrote separately, while Justices Stevens and
Scalia wrote opinions concurring in the judgment. Justice Thomas dissented.




n369  Id. at 2817.




n370  Id. at 2819.




n371  Id. at 2820.




n372  Id. at 2821.




n373  Doe, 130 S. Ct. at 2824 (Alito, J., concurring).




n374  Id.




n375  Id. at 2825. Justice Sotomayor wrote a concurring opinion in which
Justices Stevens and Ginsburg joined. She suggested "the State's decision to
make accessible what citizens voluntarily place in the public sphere should not
deter them from engaging in the expressive act of petition signing," and she
distinguished NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson on the grounds that
case-specific relief is appropriate if there is a reasonable probability of
harassment. See id. at 2828-29 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (citing NAACP v.
Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U.S. 449 (1958)). In a separate concurrence in
which Justice Breyer joined, Justice Stevens emphasized that, unlike in
McIntyre, the law "does not . . . require that any person signing a petition
disclose or say anything at all." Id. at 2829 (Stevens, J., concurring) (citing
McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U.S. 334, 345 (1995)). Justice
Sotomayor's suggestion that First Amendment protections for privacy of belief or
associations are waived upon public disclosure of one's identity seems at odds
with her critique of the Fourth Amendment's third party doctrine. See supra
notes 301-308 and accompanying text (discussing Justice Sotomayor's concurrence
in United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012)).




n376  Doe, 130 S. Ct. at 2845 (Thomas, J., dissenting) (quoting Citizens United
v. Fed. Election Comm'n, 130 S. Ct. 876, 982 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in
part and dissenting in part)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n377  Justice Scalia equated the signing of a referendum with acting as a
legislator--not a voter; "when the people exercised legislative power directly,
they did so not anonymously, but openly in town hall meetings." Id. at 2834
(Scalia, J., concurring in the judgment). He also characterized the case as
claiming that public disclosure of signatories' identifying information
"violates their First Amendment right to anonymity," and suggested that "today's
opinion acknowledges such a right." Id. at 2832. Justice Stevens disagreed,
stating that "the right . . . is the right to speak, not the right . . . to
speak anonymously." Id. at 2831 n.4 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and
concurring in the judgment).




n378  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 956 (2012) (Sotomayor, J.,
concurring).




n379  See id.




n380  Note that there would likely be a formidable Article III justiciability
problem to a First Amendment challenge to the government's use of third party
information and technology for its own surveillance. In California Bankers, the
Court found unripe the American Civil Liberties Union's claim that the banks'
record keeping requirements violated the First Amendment as they "could possibly
be used to obtain the identities of its members and contributors through the
examination of the organization's bank records." Cal. Bankers Assn. v. Shultz,
416 U.S. 21, 55-56 (1974) (emphasis added). In Laird v. Tatum, the Court
similarly found no standing to challenge the Army's practice of collecting and
storing "information about public activities that were thought to have at least
some potential for civil disorder." 408 U.S. 1, 6 (1972). The Court found that
the plaintiff lacked standing to press a claim that "the exercise of his First
Amendment rights is being chilled by the mere existence, without more, of a
governmental investigative and data-gathering activity that is alleged to be
broader in scope than is reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of a valid
governmental purpose." Id. at 10. In dissent, Justice Douglas argued that "there
is . . . no law authorizing surveillance over civilians, which in this case the
Pentagon concededly had undertaken," yet "one can search the Constitution in
vain for any such authority." Id. at 16 (Douglas, J., dissenting).




n381  Slobogin, supra note 23, at 217 (observing that "we all possess a 'right
to anonymity,' even when in public," under the Fourth Amendment); Katherine J.
Strandburg, Freedom of Association in a Networked World: First Amendment
Regulation of Relational Surveillance, 49 B.C. L. REV. 741, 749 (2008) (arguing
that "the First Amendment right to freedom of association provides the strongest
basis for regulating relational surveillance" and identifying "suggestive
principles from Fourth Amendment doctrine about how surveillance regulation must
respond to technological change"); Timothy Zick, Clouds, Cameras, and Computers:
The First Amendment and Networked Public Places, 59 FLA. L. REV. 1, 3-4 (2007)
(providing "a comprehensive assessment of the First Amendment issues related to
the networking of public places" and categorizing the speech issues into six
basic clusters); see Lynch, supra note 205, at 235 (arguing that free speech
under the First Amendment should be expanded "to encompass a speaker's right to
choose a private audience").




n382  Compare Henderson, supra note 140, at 45, with Kerr, supra note 274, at
566 (taking different approaches to the third party doctrine).




n383  See, e.g., Slobogin, supra note 23, at 312-13 ("Whether framed in the
Court's language--in terms of expectations of privacy society is prepared to
recognize as reasonable--or in mine--in terms of a right to anonymity that
protects against unnecessary government scrutiny--that threshold is crossed when
government trains cameras on its citizens, because of the panoptic atmosphere
such surveillance creates . . . ."); id. at 270-71 & n.255 (citing scholarship
"to show that the Court's public exposure/assumption of risk approach to the
Fourth Amendment is misguided").




n384  See, e.g., Citron & Gray, supra note 185, at 270 (arguing that "continuous
and indiscriminate surveillance . . . is damaging because it violates reasonable
expectations of quantitative privacy, by which we mean privacy interests in
large aggregations of information that are independent from particular interests
in constituent parts of that whole"); Kerr, supra note 125, at 313 (discussing
"mosaic" theory of Fourth Amendment); Slobogin, supra note 23, at 258-67
(arguing that a right to anonymity additionally derives from a right to travel
under the Due Process Clause and from a general right to privacy in the
penumbras of the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth and Fourteenth Amendments).




n385  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 52-53.




n386  Id. at 11.




n387  Id. at 12.




n388  NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U.S. 449, 466 (1958); see also
Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616, 630 (1886) (framing the Fourth Amendment
question as implicating the "indefeasible right of personal security, personal
liberty and private property").




n389  Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y of N.Y., Inc. v. Vill. of Stratton, 536
U.S. 150, 166-67 (2002).




n390  Id. at 166.




n391  Doe v. Reed, 130 S. Ct. 2811, 2820 (2010); see also Buckley v. Am.
Constitutional Law Found., Inc., 525 U.S. 182, 198-200 (1999) (invaliding
Colorado law requiring identification badges when soliciting signatures for
ballot initiatives as it "forces circulators to reveal their identities at the
same time they deliver their political message," thus exposing them to "'heat of
the moment' harassment"--"at the precise moment when the circulator's interest
in anonymity is greatest" (quoting Am. Constitutional Law Found., Inc. v. Meyer,
120 F.3d 1092, 1102 (10th Cir. 1997), aff'd sub nom. Buckley v. Am.
Constitutional Law Found., Inc., 525 U.S. 182) (internal quotation marks
omitted)).




n392  Doe, 130 S. Ct. at 2824 (Alito, J., concurring).




n393  Id. at 2845 (Thomas, J., dissenting) (quoting Citizens United v. Fed.
Election Comm'n, 130 S. Ct. 876, 982 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and
dissenting in part)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n394  Id. at 2843.




n395  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 153.




n396  Blitz, supra note 148, at 1356.




n397  Id. at 1358.




n398  429 U.S. 589 (1977).




n399  Id. at 606-07 (Brennan, J., concurring).




n400  Id. at 607.




n401  Id.




n402  460 U.S. 276, 283-85 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted) (holding
that beeper signals did not invade reasonable expectations of privacy).




n403  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 52.




n404  Id. at 53.




n405  Id.




n406  Id.




n407  Id. at 57-58 (internal quotation marks omitted).




n408  Id. at 152.




n409  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 23 (discussing theorists); see also Gutterman,
supra note 103, at 665-66 (critiquing the Katz formulation as "too dependent
upon a finding of objective measures used to protect privacy" and "thereby a
risk-assumption theory" of the Fourth Amendment).




n410  If an individual controls the database used for matching--such as a
Facebook account--there may be an argument that the government's probing of such
data constitutes an unreasonable search of that person's "effects" under the
Fourth Amendment. But see, e.g., United States v. Gabel, No. 10-60168, 2010 WL
3927697, at *6-7 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 16, 2010) (rejecting argument that subject had
a reasonable expectation that only users logging onto a network in a usual
manner would see his information, and that law enforcement's use of enhanced
technologies for searching violated the Fourth Amendment), aff'd, 470 F. App'x
853 (11th Cir. 2012).




n411  See PRISCILLA M. REGAN, LEGISLATING PRIVACY: TECHNOLOGY, SOCIAL VALUES,
AND PUBLIC POLICY 89-90 (1995).




n412  See supra notes 287-289 and accompanying text.




n413  See Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 33, 40 (2001).




n414  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 956 (2012) (Sotomayor, J.,
concurring).




n415  Id. at 955.




n416  Id. at 964 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment).




n417  Doe v. Reed, 130 S. Ct. 2811, 2826 (2010) (Alito, J., concurring)
(observing that the state laws suggest that signatory information should be
confidential except for verification); id. at 2847 (Thomas, J., dissenting)
(observing that the rules allowing for review of the secretary of state's
verification decisions were not in question).




n418  133 S. Ct. 1958, 1980 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting).




n419  Id. at 1989.




n420  133 S. Ct. 1409, 1416 (2013).




n421  Id.




n422  Id. at 1417.




n423  514 U.S. 334, 347, 349 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n424  Id. at 348-49.




n425  Spencer, supra note 157 (quoting Gregory Nojeim, senior counsel at the
Center for Democracy and Technology).




n426  This factor, of course, raises its own host of issues--such as what
anonymity means for purposes of evaluating levels of Fourth Amendment scrutiny
and protection--which is beyond the scope of this paper.




n427  See Hayes v. Florida, 470 U.S. 811, 813-18 (1985) ("There is . . . support
in our cases for the view that the Fourth Amendment would permit seizures for
the purpose of fingerprinting, if there is reasonable suspicion that the suspect
has committed a criminal act, if there is a reasonable basis for believing that
fingerprinting will establish or negate the suspect's connection with that
crime, and if the procedure is carried out with dispatch. Of course, neither
reasonable suspicion nor probable cause would suffice to permit the officers to
make a warrantless entry into a person's house for the purpose of obtaining
fingerprint identification." (citation omitted)); cf. Maryland v. King, 133 S.
Ct. 1958, 1987 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (observing that "our cases
provide no ready answer to the question" of whether taking a person's
fingerprints amounts to a Fourth Amendment search); Davis v. Mississippi, 394
U.S. 721, 728 (1969) ("We have no occasion in this case . . . to determine
whether the requirements of the Fourth Amendment could be met by narrowly
circumscribed procedures for obtaining, during the course of a criminal
investigation, the fingerprints of individuals for whom there is no probable
cause to arrest."). By contrast, courts have found that routine "booking"
procedures may require fingerprint identification, regardless of whether
investigation of the crime involves fingerprint evidence. See, e.g., Napolitano
v. United States, 340 F.2d 313, 314 (1st Cir. 1965) ("Taking of fingerprints
[prior to bail] is universally standard procedure, and no violation of
constitutional rights."); Smith v. United States, 324 F.2d 879, 882 (D.C. Cir.
1963) ("It is elementary that a person in lawful custody may be required to
submit to . . . fingerprinting . . . as part of routine identification
processes.").




n428  See, e.g., Tattered Cover, Inc. v. City of Thornton, 44 P.3d 1044, 1057-59
(Colo. 2002) (en banc) (applying the Supreme Court's recognition of a First
Amendment interest in anonymity to a search warrant issued to a third party and
holding that a warrant to obtain information about an individual's purchases
from a bookseller could not be enforced without a heightened showing of the need
for customers' book purchase records). Other courts have held that the privacy
or anonymity interest of a party seeking to prevent a subpoena to a third party
weakens if the party made disclosures to that third party in exchange for a
service. E.g., Hause v. Commonwealth, 83 S.W.3d 1, 12 (Ky. Ct. App. 2001)
(upholding a warrant for subscriber records from an ISP because he had knowingly
revealed his identity to the ISP, whose employees had access to that
information).




n429  Cf. MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 176 (recommending
that governments be required (1) to disclose their data and algorithms to the
public, (2) to have algorithms certified by third parties prior to use in making
predictions, and (3) to specify concrete ways in which individuals can disprove
predictions made through big data correlations); Lee Tien, Privacy, Technology
and Data Mining, 30 OHIO N.U. L. REV. 389, 405 (2004) (arguing that the lack of
particularized suspicion to run a data search amounts to a violation of the
Fourth Amendment).




n430  See McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U.S. 334 (1995).




n431  Blue, supra note 47.




n432  Ian Duncan, Senator Questions Facebook Exec About Facial-Recognition
Feature, L.A. TIMES (July 18, 2012),
http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/18/business/la-fi-senate-facebook-20120719.




n433  jhon jabir, How Facebook's Face Recognition Challenges Privacy,
SEETECHNO.COM (July 18, 2012),
http://seetechno.com/how-facebooks-face-recognition-challenges-privacy/.




n434  Blue, supra note 47.




n435  See generally Protection of Personal Data, EUR. COMM'N,
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/ (last visited Nov. 24, 2013).




n436  See Anita Ramasastry, Lost in Translation?: Data Mining, National Security
and the "Adverse Inference" Problem, 22 SANTA CLARA COMPUTER & HIGH TECH. L.J.
757, 758 (2006) ("Since September 11, 2001, the federal government has tried to
connect more 'dots' (data points) to prevent terrorism--by piecing together
pieces of information and data to uncover possible plots and patterns. As part
of this effort, the Executive Branch has introduced various proposals to 'mine'
private sector commercial databases and public records (as well as public
databases) for information on everything from consumer addresses to financial
and credit profiles. Such information, when fed into computers and analyzed, is
meant to help the U.S. government predict who might be involved in terrorist
activity.").




n437  Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 607 (1977) (Brennan, J. concurring).




n438  Id.; see also United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 964 (2012) (Alito,
J., concurring in the judgment) (citing Kerr, supra note 125, at 805-06). One
option is to have a comprehensive privacy law incorporating informed consent
requirements, like many European countries have, with a "privacy commissioner"
responsible for addressing technological developments in a regulatory
environment. Freishtat, supra note 160. This would allow for different responses
to different FRT applications, perhaps requiring social networks to be more
transparent and to enable users to easily switch data to competitors. James
Temple, Facial Recognition Software's Privacy Concerns, SFGate.com (June 20,
2012, 4:00 AM),
http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Facial-recognition-software-s-privacy-con
cerns-3645779.php.




n439  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 154-55. These authors
anticipate a shift in regulatory frameworks away from consent and toward
accountability for the uses of data. Id. at 173.




n440  Id. at 158-59. This would be problematic for numerous reasons, including
that culpability assumes that people have chosen a course of action and thus
should be made responsible for it. Id. at 163.




n441  Spencer, supra note 157 (quoting Professor Alessandro Acquisti).




n442  See Gutterman, supra note 103, at 681 (construing Katz as "adhering to the
basic determination that fourth amendment protections must respond to
technological developments").


                               17 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

U.S. police struggle to uncover threats on social media

LENGTH: 692  words


U.S. law enforcement agencies are a long way from being able to effectively
track threats of the kind a gunman posted on Instagram before his
execution-style murder of two New York City policemen last weekend.
Police need more data analytics and mining software to monitor social media
sites such as Facebook (FB.O) and Twitter (TWTR.N), as well as trained personnel
to make sense of what could be a deluge of data, say law enforcement officials
and security experts.


You can buy all the technology you want, but if you want to figure out clever
stuff, you better have smart people able to use it, said Christopher Ahlberg,
co-founder of Recorded Future Inc, which helps clients analyze social media
feeds. The company is partly backed by In-Q-Tel, a venture capital firm that
serves U.S. intelligence agencies.
According to the New York Police Department, Ismaaiyl Brinsley posted anti-cop
slurs on the Instagram photo-sharing site hours before walking up to two
officers in a parked squad car in Brooklyn and shooting them dead on Saturday.
Baltimore police said they discovered the Instagram posts after Brinsley shot
and wounded his girlfriend earlier that day. But the NYPD did not learn of the
posts - which included a photograph of a silver handgun and the message I'm
Putting Wings On Pigs Today. They Take 1 Of Ours...Let's Take 2 of Theirs -
until it was too late.
Monitoring social media for out-of-the-blue threats may be beyond the
capabilities of most police forces including even the New York Police
Department, which has a relatively extensive and aggressive intelligence
operation, experts say.
Analysts at the New York and Los Angeles police departments routinely crawl
through social media to keep tabs on individuals on their radar, such as gang
members, or to prepare for high-profile events. But in an era of shrinking or
stagnant budgets, buying high-end software and hiring trained data analysts can
be costly.
Many police departments utilize fairly rudimentary tools. The NYPD uses common
search engines, experts say. It is possible to program an algorithm to pick up
threatening messages, but the sheer volume of data and the potential number of
false positives would impede its effectiveness.
It is like trying to take a sip from a fire hydrant, the non-profit Police
Executive Research Forum said in a 2013 report.
TOO MUCH INFORMATION
In monitoring social media, most local police forces lag U.S. intelligence
agencies, which despite their vast surveillance networks still struggle to
prevent attacks such as the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.  The National Security
Agency had raw intercepts pointing to a person matching the 2009 underwear
bomber's description, but failed to stop him from boarding a plane.
The Department of Homeland Security monitors about 100 social media sites, but
there are restrictions that keep their agents from sharing all the information
that they collect directly with local law enforcement.
Social media monitoring by police tends to be reactive: analysts hit the
Internet when someone phones in a tip. Investigators use social networking sites
to identify victims, look for witnesses and perpetrators, generate leads or
search for evidence in the aftermath of a crime.
Most of the stuff, honestly, we get is when people send it to us, said Los
Angeles Police Department spokesman, Commander Andrew Smith.
That's not to say there have not been some successes. The LAPD, which employs
around 40 people to monitor social media manually, uses software from a startup
called PredPol Inc, which stands for predictive policing. The software analyzes
LAPD and other internal police databases to identify crime-ridden areas and
determine the best times to patrol.
PredPol marketing manager Benjamin Hoehn said crime dropped around 20 percent
within 10 months of deploying the system in Modesto, California, in January.
The LAPD is also exploring the use of Geofeedia Inc, which incorporates
user-location data as it crawls through sites from Twitter and Facebook to
Google Inc's (GOOGL.O) YouTube and Yahoo Inc's (YHOO.O) Flickr.
PRIVACY CONCERNS
Sophisticated services  2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday

Alhambra police chief says predictive policing has been successful

BYLINE: Zen Vuong

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


ALHAMBRA >> A year after the Police Department implemented predictive policing
software, car burglaries and vehicle thefts have decreased, Chief Mark Yokoyama
said.

In January 2013, Alhambra was the first law-enforcement agency in Southern
California to have citywide implementation of PredPol, a cloud-based software
that forecasts areas where crimes are likely to be committed.

Nine months ago , some residents expressed reservations about technology that
could target the homeless or minorities, but co-founder Jeffrey Brantingham, a
UCLA anthropology professor, said PredPol doesn t use personal information to
predict crime.

It doesn t include who the offenders are or what type of music they like or
anything like that,  he said.  It s focusing on where the crimes are happening.
The public calls the police and report crime. Police are using data they are
given. They re actually doing what the public wants. It s nothing like  Minority
Report   or criminal profiling.

PredPol uses five years  worth of law-breaking data to map a
500-by-500-square-foot area where crime will likely happen.

The technology essentially places officers at the right place and time to
prevent lawbreaking.

The Alhambra Police Department focused on the two most common crimes in
Alhambra, Yokoyama said. By year s end, when compared to 2012 numbers, car
burglaries decreased by 21 percent, and auto theft declined by 8 percent, a
statistics report showed.

Yokoyama said the system works. He recalled a time when police officers were
patrolling Valley Boulevard at PredPol s direction and noticed a suspicious
vehicle. They found ski masks inside the vehicles and arrested the individuals
on suspicion of robbery, he said.

The act of robbery, burglary, et cetera does not have to be committed for a
crime to occur,  Yokoyama said.  The planning and actions toward committing the
crime is a crime in and of itself. In fact, it would always be our preference to
stop a crime at this stage than for an act to occur.

Yokoyama added that giving officers direct, clear missions to patrol particular
areas has had a positive effect that residents and business owners have noticed.

It s actually increased our communication and visibility to the community
because (police officers are) spending more time in the residential area, as an
example,  Yokoyama said.  I get (positive) calls all the time about why the
police are in their neighborhood more.

Residents such as William Rising, however, said he hasn t noticed more officers
on the streets. But he said response time to emergency calls has improved.

Just a more visible police presence can avert many potential criminal
activities, such as car theft, break-ins and drug dealing,  he said in a
Facebook post.

In addition to printouts of potential crime areas, Yokoyama said every police
car is now equipped with in-car computers that receive refreshed information
every five minutes.

In general, he said, officers spend about 35 percent of their time doing random
patrols based on their knowledge of the city, and they spend 5 percent of their
time focused in the 500-by-500-square-foot areas to which PredPol directs them.

Yet the crime rate forcertain activities has increased . Residential burglaries
went up by 17 percent and robberies increased by 22 percent, a report found.

Although the numbers are up, based on PredPol predictions, we feel a number of
crimes were prevented and would have been higher if not for PredPol missions,
Yokoyama said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

Tech edge for forecasting offences

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 273 words


One of the most successful attempts at using massive crime data for predictive
policing has been developed by the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). A
separate wing in the LAPD uses cuttingedge data-driven analysis to direct their
patrol officers to likely future crime scenes. This may sound like a leaf out of
the famous Tom Cruise crime thriller `Minority Report', but the method has an
accuracy of more than 80%, especially in crime intensive zones of the city.

LAPD uses a special software called

PredPol developed by mathematician George Mohler and anthropologist Jeff
Brantingham, which calculates its forecasts based on times and locations of
previous crimes, combined with sociological information about criminal behaviour
and patterns.How PredPol works A series of data is collected, say over a decade
or 50 years, and recorded regularly and this is updated by police officials
across police stations immediately after any crime is reported.This data helps
the police identify the hot spots of the criminal activities happening in
particular areas. This also

provides details on areas in different cities which are at higher risk for
repeat offences.How analytics is used PredPol, based on its algorithm, generates
maps that display 500 x 500 square-feet hot spots where crimes are likely to
occur again. The algorithm uses criminal records, date and time of crime
occurrences, location and other attributes to predict the crime-prone zones. The
algorithm identifies the patterns of criminal activity based on past data; maps
are generated based on the shifts as the frequency and probability of a crime
occurring changes with time.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bratton Still Sees Challenges in a New York He Made Safer

BYLINE: By JOSEPH GOLDSTEIN and J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words


In his office on the 14th floor of Police Headquarters, William J. Bratton
displays copies of his memoir, ''Turnaround,'' his account of taming New York's
crime-filled streets and subways in the 1990s. On a mostly empty wall hangs a
framed Time magazine cover from 1996, declaring over a steely photo of Mr.
Bratton: ''Finally, We're Winning the War Against Crime. Here's Why.''

The main ''crises'' he describes now, six months into his second tour as New
York City police commissioner, are less likely to bring declarations of victory:
frayed relations in minority communities; a department facing increased
oversight; the ever-present threat of terrorism.

He is acutely aware of predictions that crime would rise in a
post-stop-and-frisk New York run by a liberal mayor, Bill de Blasio, and Mr.
Bratton accepts that, in many ways, his mandate is to bolster public confidence
that the city will remain safe.

''A lot of this,'' Mr. Bratton said, is about ''effectively trying to just calm
everybody down: 'Hey, it's going to be fine. The city is not going to fall
apart. The four horsemen of the apocalypse are not riding into town to rape and
plunder.' ''

For a quarter century, in police departments on both coasts, Mr. Bratton has
made a name for himself based largely on a ''broken windows'' theory of
policing, an aggressive approach to maintaining order by pursuing low-level
offenses like vandalism as a means of preventing serious crime.

But on his return to New York, he is searching for ways to apply that same
playbook, developed in the high-crime early 1990s, to a safer city filled with
New Yorkers who have never known it any other way.

He has looked for blight in Manhattan and found little to report. He has
marveled that grievances about noise are now a leading complaint from residents
in Washington Heights, an area he associates with the violent drug gangs of an
earlier time. ''Crime is not, interestingly enough, a big issue at this time in
the city,'' he said in a recent interview.

The city is a vastly different place than Mr. Bratton knew in the 1990s. In
1994, his first year as police commissioner, there were 17,422 robberies in
Manhattan alone and 1,561 homicides across the city. This year through Sunday,
there have been just over 7,000 robberies citywide and 123 killings.

But Mr. Bratton, 66, is not veering from his focus on low-level offenses. Rather
he is doubling down, although for different reasons.

If two decades ago Mr. Bratton championed the zealous pursuit of subway fare
beaters, he did so partly because it led to the arrest of more serious
criminals: In those crime-plagued years, one in 21 turnstile jumpers was found
to have a weapon. Now his attention to minor offenses is more about banishing
the specter of disorder.

Crime endures in the city, but it often differs from what he faced last time
around. Heroin is resurgent, but users are now more frequently found in Staten
Island houses than derelict shooting galleries. Youth gangs rarely battle over
drug turf, but engage in ''violence for violence sake,'' Mr. Bratton has said
with a kind of disgusted wonder.

While homicides are down, shootings are up 11 percent so far this year to 456,
an increase that has been seized upon by his critics, and those of the mayor.

But in the interview, Mr. Bratton spoke with evident frustration at how each
uptick in violence has been treated as evidence that public safety was slipping.
''That's something that we had to address and the mayor has to continually keep
addressing because everybody is still waiting and watching,'' he said.

''God forbid we had 30 more shootings than we had last year,'' he added.
''People tend to forget what this place looked like in the 1990s.''

For Mr. Bratton the present reality is best tackled with what he sees as a
time-tested approach, signaling for officers to go after highly visible
conditions such as subway begging and graffiti. And he is resisting an effort by
the Brooklyn district attorney to be more lenient with low-level marijuana
offenders.

He has even sought to brand the ''showtime'' performers who dance in train cars
-- or as Mr. Bratton often calls them, the subway ''acrobats'' -- as resonant
symbols of disorder, much as he once did with the squeegee men of a generation
ago. ''You're seeing activity directed against the acrobats, against the
aggressive beggars, soaring,'' he said.

He announced with satisfaction the arrest last week of a Long Island man accused
of routinely spray painting on highway overpasses and walls in Queens. (Graffiti
along the Long Island Expressway has come under particular scrutiny from Mr.
Bratton, who gets a close view of the vandalism as he returns from his weekend
home in the Hamptons.)

''I get criticized about: 'What are you going after graffiti for? We've got kids
killing each other.' '' Mr. Bratton said. ''It's just this sense of, in public
spaces, who's in control?''

When he reflects on his policing career, Mr. Bratton speaks in terms of big
challenges he has overcome -- helping to turn the tide against crime in New York
in the early 1990s, and a decade later to remake a Los Angeles Police
Department, which had come to be defined by brutality and racism.

He can seem at times cramped by the challenges enumerated for him by Mr. de
Blasio, who campaigned on reducing and reforming the stop-and-frisk tactic, the
aggressive use of which led to new court oversight and the City Council to
create an inspector general for the department. While the mayor hailed Mr.
Bratton as the right leader to carry out changes to the stop-and-frisk policy,
Mr. Bratton soon began describing the issue as moot, pointing out that by the
end of the Bloomberg administration, officers had abandoned it as a tactic.

Mr. Bratton has also grown quieter about Mr. de Blasio's signature public safety
initiative -- reducing traffic deaths.

With less fanfare, Mr. Bratton has embarked on several new initiatives,
including detectives focused on cellphone theft and cybercrime and a push aimed
at those who disable MetroCard machines and sell swipes to desperate
straphangers.

He said he wants the department to embrace so-called predictive policing, which
uses data streams to anticipate crime patterns or allocate police resources.
Already, the department is looking back at the hours before every shooting to
see which 311 complaints and 911 calls for minor events -- loud music playing,
crowds gathering -- preceded the violence and, if addressed in the future, could
help head it off.

Mr. Bratton has brought in familiar non-officers from his past postings: John
Linder, who is working on the ''re-engineering'' of the department, as he did in
1994; John Miller, a former reporter, to head the department's intelligence and
counterterrorism efforts; and Zachary Tumin, the co-author of Mr. Bratton's book
on leadership, to direct efforts on data-driven policing and social media.

But one of his most urgent priorities in the wake of the political and legal
fight over stopping and frisking has been improving morale in what he describes
as an ''unhappy organization.''

To that end, he has traveled the city, shaking hands with patrol officers,
adding his signature to their memo books. Last month during a late-night tour of
the 47th Precinct in the Bronx, he stopped by the station house in the
neighboring 49th Precinct at 1 a.m. on a whim. ''A lot of my role at this
juncture in this department is personal touching of the cops and the public,''
he said.

Indeed, Mr. Bratton is trying to find new ways to improve the public's
confidence in the Police Department. Soon, he said, the department will
regularly conduct a 10-question survey with 200 residents in each precinct to
''ask the old Ed Koch thing, 'How am I doing?' ''

At his direction, precinct commanders have taken to Twitter. It is part public
relations and part responding to citizens' everyday complaints to build a better
relationship with the public.

But Mr. Bratton has also encouraged his precinct commanders to make more
decisions on their own, potentially leading to conflicts if, say, the dictates
of a computer algorithm do not align with the approach taken by a local
commander.

A situation like that presented itself in the 47th Precinct during Mr. Bratton's
visit last month, when the area was leading the city in homicides.

By design, teams of young officers sent to handle crime spikes as part of the
decade-old Operation Impact are assigned to high-crime zones determined by
analytics at headquarters -- and can be moved only after a lengthy approval
process.

But the commander of the 47th Precinct, Ruel R. Stephenson, said the system
limited his ability to respond to pockets of crime as they cropped up around the
sprawling precinct.

After the precinct commander described the situation, Mr. Bratton instructed his
new chief of patrol, James O'Neill, to fix it.

He then set off for a midnight tour of the unfamiliar north Bronx terrain where
shootings have doubled this year. ''Very clean, orderly,'' he observed later.
''No vacant buildings.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/17/nyregion/for-a-much-safer-new-york-bratton-red
efines-role.html

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William J. Bratton (A1)
''Crime is not, interestingly enough, a big issue at this time in the city,''
William J. Bratton, who is leading the New York Police Department for the second
time, said in a recent interview. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 As commissioner in 1994, Mr. Bratton, speaking above, found a city with high
crime rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DITH PRAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday

A catalyst for big data innovations

BYLINE: By BRYAN MERICA, Contributing Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 614 words


A little-noticed measure on today's ballot could fundamentally transform the
role of government in the lives of everyday Californians and position the state
to be a leader of the Big Data movement.

On its face, Proposition 42 is a simple state constitutional amendment. The
measure clarifies that local governments must comply with California's open
records laws. Cities and counties will no longer be able to simply say they
cannot afford to answer citizens' requests for information.

The measure could also finally force local agencies to provide key sets of data
that have been unavailable and allow the state, for the first time, to direct
what kinds of data must be made available and help turn government into a
clearing house for vital sets of public information.

Having comprehensive, reliable public data will give developers and policymakers
alike the ability to create better solutions to help the public.

Prop. 42 could transform the role of the state from a simple deliverer of
services into a platform for data that will allow the private sector to provide
those services more efficiently. It could pave the way for the "Uberization" of
public services, creating new kinds of solutions that are enabled by government,
but driven by the market. It is a 21st century vision for what government can
and should become.

People use a lot of words to describe government, but efficient is rarely one of
them. But if it can be an agent for accurate and vital information, it will
allow both the private and public sector to recognize inefficiencies and gaps in
government services and come up with ways to fill those gaps.

It will also allow for the kind of government transparency needed to hold
elected officials accountable. If done properly, the measure can help us get a
better understanding of what our elected representatives are up to, and whether
promises that are so often attached to policy choices actually bare fruit. Did
that sales tax increase aimed at improving transportation infrastructure
actually help with the problem? Good, quality data can help us find that answer.

If Prop. 42 passes, it could unlock massive troves of data and allow the private
sector to set about addressing some of our most pressing issues in the state.
Already, for example, there is a movement afoot to address the current drought
by mining local water consumption data. Finding data that can help solve big
problems will become easier under Prop. 42.

The current state of public data in California is, quite frankly, embarrassing.
For example, we have no reliable statewide numbers for how many businesses are
opening and closing in California, or what kinds of businesses are setting up
shop or moving out of the state. Our current information is haphazard and
largely anecdotal, and laws are made based on hypotheses and incomplete
information.

Prop. 42 will allow state lawmakers to require local governments to track
specific types of information and make it available to the public. We are
already seeing the power of data and how reliable and current information can
lead to better delivery of services. In Los Angeles, for example, the LAPD
rolled out "predictive policing" technology that analyzes historic crime data to
forecast where police resources are likely to be needed in the future.

Government can improve the lives of Californians, but it may not in the way the
state has intervened in the lives of citizens throughout the 20th century.

With the passage of Prop. 42, government can evolve into a platform to enable
innovative ways to better serve the people of California.

Bryan Merica is a founding partner of IDMLO.CO, a digital public-affairs firm
based in Sacramento.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Superstar Superintendant from Lewisham to take part in India policing programme

BYLINE: Carly Read

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words


Lewisham's borough commander will be taking part in a programme in India to help
train national police officers starting Tuesday.

The five-week schedule will see Chief Superintendant Russell Nyman passing his
29 years of experience onto police in Hydrabad, south India, with the help of
officers from Australia.

Chief Superintendent Nyman said: "This is an excellent opportunity for me to
promote the work of the Metropolitan Police Service to my international
colleagues and talk about how we police in London and in particular Lewisham.

We do have a large Asian community in Lewisham and in particular an Indian
population of approximately 2,000 people. I am looking forward to understanding
how they police in very challenging circumstances and most importantly to learn
and understand the Indian culture further."

During his extensive career, Chief Superintendant Nyman has been seconded to
other forces in England as well as other countries including Los Angeles Police
Department while working for Kent Police.

While in the USA he identified the use of predictive policing - using analytical
techniques to identify potential offenders based on algorithms - which has been
described as a revolutionary innovation of stopping crime before it starts by
the media.

As a result, this law enforcement technique was brought back to Kent where it
was introduced.

Having also policed in Cyprus, going to India will mean he has experienced
policing on three continents.

Superintendant Neil Evans will take up the role of borough commander in his
absence.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
