
                               1 of 13 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright (c) 2015 Chicago-Kent College of Law
                            Chicago-Kent Law Review

                                      2015

                            Chicago-Kent Law Review

                            90 Chi.-Kent L. Rev. 301

LENGTH: 18816 words

STUDENT NOTE: LEVERAGING PREDICTIVE POLICING ALGORITHMS TO RESTORE FOURTH
AMENDMENT PROTECTIONS IN HIGH-CRIME AREAS IN A POST-WARDLOW WORLD

Rapid technological changes have led to an explosion in Big Data collection and
analysis through complex computerized algorithms. Law enforcement has not been
immune to these technological developments. Many local police departments are
now using highly advanced predictive policing technologies to predict when and
where crime will occur in their communities, and to allocate crime-fighting
resources based on these predictions.
Although predictive policing technology has an array of the potential uses,the
scope of this Note is limited to addressing how the statistical outputs from
these technologies can be used to restore eroded Fourth Amendment rights in
alleged high-crime areas. As the use of sophisticated predictive policing
software becomes more widespread, courts will need to address how the
statistical outputs from this technology factor into the reasonable suspicion
calculus when a police officer performs a Terry stop in an alleged "high-crime"
area. This Note argues that uniform standards and best practices must be
developed to guide law enforcement'suse of predictive policing software, and
that this software should be leveraged as a tool to help restore eroded Fourth
Amendment rights.

NAME: Kelly K. Koss*

BIO: * J.D. Candidate, May 2015, Chicago-Kent College of Law, Illinois Institute
of Technology; Master of Urban and Regional Planning & Master of Urban Design,
University of Michigan. The author would like to thank Professors Douglas
Godfrey and Christopher Schmidt for their guidance, and her family and friends
for their support.

TEXT:
 [*301]

   Introduction

 Before walking the streets of his beat in Chicago's West Englewood
neighborhood, on October 25, 2017, Officer Adams uses one of the station's
computers to get the latest report on today's forecasted criminal activity. n1
The report designates part of Officer Adams' beat, specifically the 500-foot
radius around the intersection of South Ashland Avenue and West 72nd Street, as
a "high-crime area" n2 for brown-heroin trafficking. The statistical output from
the Chicago Police Department's sophisticated predictive policing software
indicates that at around 8:22 P.M., Officer Adams can anticipate that a
gang-related brown-heroin trafficking transaction will occur at this location.
At 8:26 P.M, Officer Adams observes two young black men huddled closely
together; one of them is holding a plastic bag at the corner of South Ashland
Avenue and 73rd Place, which is located approximately 1,000 feet from the
anticipated drug trafficking location. Before Officer Adams acts to
stop-and-frisk the two men, he must decide whether his minimal observations -
the two men huddled together while one holds a plastic bag - combined with the
high-crime designation 1,000 feet north of this location, is enough to establish
reasonable suspicion. Is it?

   The United States Supreme Court has yet to hear a case addressing issues
related to law enforcement's use of data-driven tips from predictive policing
software. However, soon, the courts will need to address how data from
predictive policing software factors into the Fourth Amendment's n3  [*302]
reasonable suspicion calculus because this software is becoming increasingly
popular n4 and is revolutionizing policing practices across the United States.
Predictive policing technologies have become so powerful that these complex
computerized algorithms n5 can now help reveal localized future crime patterns
before they even emerge. n6

   Predictive policing is defined as using quantitative analysis to make
statistical predictions to suggest probable targets for criminal activity,
prevent crime, and solve past crimes. n7 The theory that crime is predictable is
well documented. n8 Studies have demonstrated that criminals are creatures of
habit, committing the same types of crimes that they have successfully committed
in the past. n9 Not only do criminals repeatedly commit the same types of
crimes, they also tend to commit subsequent crimes in close geographic proximity
to the original crime at approximately the same time of day as the original
crime. n10 For decades, law enforcement agencies have taken advantage of this
predictability by linking geospatial information to past crime data. n11 Police
departments initially placed pushpins on paper maps to reveal clusters of
criminal activity within a jurisdiction; however, recent technological advances
have enabled police departments to move  [*303]  beyond this rudimentary system
of prediction. Many law enforcement agencies now use sophisticated computer
programs to leverage complex algorithms to link and analyze vast datasets, and
reveal previously unseen crime patterns. n12 Police departments use information
obtained from these statistical analyses to inform their police work. n13

   Although predictive policing technology has an array of the potential uses,
the scope of this Note is limited to addressing how the statistical outputs from
these technologies can be factored into the reasonable suspicion calculus to
reduce the number of Terry stops n14 performed in alleged high-crime areas.
Predictive policing technology can be used to corroborate a police officer's
"high-crime area" designation and help restore eroded Fourth Amendment
protections to these neighborhoods. As the use of sophisticated predictive
policing software becomes more widespread, n15 courts will need to address the
role that data from this technology plays in corroborating an officer's finding
of reasonable suspicion in alleged high-crime areas. n16

   Courts all over the United States have struggled to define "high-crime area"
since the Supreme Court's decision in Illinois v. Wardlow. n17 Wardlow
essentially reduced the reasonable suspicion "totality of the circumstances"
analysis to a two-factor test in certain geographic areas: permitting the
characterization of a neighborhood as "high-crime" to serve as a plus-factor for
finding reasonable suspicion. n18 However, the Wardlow Court failed to define
the term "high-crime area." n19 Furthermore, the Court did not offer any
guidance regarding the evidentiary showing necessary to  [*304]  corroborate a
police officer's assertion that a neighborhood has a high propensity for crime.
n20 Lacking guidance, the lower courts have taken a haphazard approach to
defining the term "high-crime area," leading to amorphous and inconsistent
definitions across jurisdictions. n21 Thus, courts have generally deferred to a
police officer's subjective belief that an area is high-crime, and have not
required law enforcement agencies to corroborate an officer's belief with
quantitative evidence. n22

   The courts' failure to require law enforcement agencies to present concrete
evidence demonstrating that a neighborhood has a heightened propensity for crime
raises significant constitutional concerns. Areas defined as "high-crime" tend
to disproportionately represent low-income and minority neighborhoods. n23
Courts' deference to police officers' subjective experiences has created
significant animosity between the residents of these neighborhoods and law
enforcement. n24 The high-crime label often coincides with an increased police
presence in these neighborhoods. n25 Moreover, using the high-crime designation
as a plus factor in a two-factor totality of the circumstances test, lowers the
threshold for reasonable suspicion in these neighborhoods, and ultimately strips
residents of critical constitutional  [*305]  protections. n26 Thus, individuals
living in these neighborhoods do not enjoy the same level of Fourth Amendment
protections as individuals residing in wealthier whiter neighborhoods. n27

   However, the prevalent use of predictive policing software and its increasing
sophistication provides courts with an opportunity to narrowly define high-crime
areas based on both geography and specific crime type. Requiring law enforcement
to use narrow crime-specific definitions, and requiring these agencies to
present quantitative evidence that supports these designations will help restore
eroded Fourth Amendment protections to people living in neighborhoods
historically stamped with the high-crime label. This Note argues that uniform
standards and best practices must be developed to guide law enforcement's use of
predictive policing software. This software should be leveraged as a tool to
help restore previously eroded Fourth Amendment rights.

   Part I briefly describes the development of predictive policing technologies.
It illustrates this technology's ability to inform high-crime area
classifications based on both geography and specific crime type, and describes
the relevant limitations of this technology. Part II describes the erosion of
Fourth Amendment protections for individuals in designated high-crime areas
since Terry v. Ohio, and focuses on the deterioration of the totality of
circumstances test into a two-factor test in Illinois v. Wardlow. It also
illustrates how courts have struggled to define the term "high-crime area." Part
III describes the effect that heavy policing and the high-crime area label has
had on low-income and minority neighborhoods. Part IV focuses on the role of
technology in Fourth Amendment jurisprudence. Part V argues that courts must
require objective data to evaluate whether an area is "high-crime." It argues
that Congress should pass legislation to establish uniform standards to guide
the use of predictive policing technologies. Implementing uniform standards and
best practices would ensure fair, accurate, and reliable data collection and
analysis, enabling courts to reasonably rely on statistical outputs from these
technologies in evidence suppression hearings.

[*306]

   I. A Brief Overview of the Development and Capabilities of Predictive
Policing Technologies

 CompStat, the precursor to the latest generation of predictive policing
technologies, emerged in New York in 1994. n28 The New York City Police
Department (NYPD) used CompStat to compile statistical data to show when and
where different types of crime occurred in the city. n29 The NYPD used this data
to distribute personnel and tailor its policing strategies to address these
"hotspots" of criminal activity - revolutionizing the NYPD's operations. n30
Under the CompStat system, data was collected and analyzed weekly, and precinct
commanders met every few weeks with the Department's leadership to discuss crime
statistics and modify their policing strategies as needed. n31 CompStat's
implementation created a constant feedback loop for the NYPD and "coincided with
a staggering decline in crime" in New York City. n32 Police departments across
the United States began using the CompStat system after they learned about the
NYPD's success. n33 Although experts continue to debate the role of CompStat in
facilitating New York City's declining crime rate in the 1990s and early 2000s,
n34 this software paved the way for the development of the latest emerging
predictive policing technologies, which are used today by law enforcement
agencies across the United States. n35

   A. General Overview of New Predictive Policing Technologies

 The development of next generation predictive policing programs has garnered
not only national attention but also federal financing because of the software's
cost-effectiveness, high-tech image, and promising test results. n36 The latest
predictive policing programs appear to reduce crime  [*307]  without
significantly disrupting other policing efforts in the small geographic areas
where they have been tested. n37 Moreover, in an era of significant budget cuts,
law enforcement agencies are taking advantage of the fact that this software
seamlessly blends into their existing crime-fighting operations and saves money
by more efficiently allocating resources. n38

   Predictive policing technology is built upon the popular understanding that
criminals are creatures of habit: they repeatedly commit the same types of
crimes at around the same time of day in the same geographic area. n39 Studies
have generally shown that certain property crimes, such as burglary, are highly
predictable. n40 Generally, predictive policing models rely on an assumption
that criminals are rational decision-makers who commit crimes by exploiting
opportunities created under certain conditions. n41 The latest predictive
policing software uses "years - sometimes decades - worth of crime reports,
[and] the algorithm analyses [sic] the data to identify areas with high
probabilities for certain types of crime, placing little red boxes on maps of
the city that are streamed into patrol cars." n42 Captain John Romero of the Los
Angeles Police Department, explains, "Burglars tend to be territorial, so once
they find a neighborhood where they get good stuff, they come back again and
again ... and that assists the algorithm in placing the boxes." n43
Historically, the use of predictive policing technologies has been limited to
tracking, analyzing, and predicting property crimes n44 because the software was
designed to predict "where and when crime is mostly likely to occur, not who
will commit it." n45 However, unlike CompStat, which relied on data of past
criminal activity to extrapolate patterns and predict future criminal activity,
the new generation of predictive policing technologies is forward-looking, and
truly  [*308]  predictive. n46 As will be described below, the latest software
can analyze vast and complex data sets in near real time speeds to reveal
previously unseen patterns of crimes. n47

   As the capabilities of these programs have advanced, police departments have
begun to experiment with using the software to predict other types of crimes,
such as gun violence and gang activity. n48 Although predictive policing
technology has many potential uses, n49 this Note focuses on how this software
can be used by law enforcement and the courts to identify and classify
high-crime areas by specific crime type and geography. To illustrate how this
software works and what it is capable of, the following two sections describe
two analytic models that are particularly good at forecasting where and what
type of criminal activity will occur: the near repeat model and the risk terrain
model (RTM).

   B. The Near Repeat Model

 The near repeat model for predictive policing technology assumes that crime
spreads through local environments on a micro-scale like a contagious disease.
n50 Thus, when certain crimes occur at a location, these crimes tend to create
repeat criminal activity in the same location. n51 Professor Mohler of Santa
Clara University has created an "earthquake modeling" algorithm based on this
near repeat model. n52 The earthquake modeling algorithm draws a grid over a
jurisdiction and estimates the background rate  [*309]  at which new crime
appears in each cell of the grid. n53 When a new crime occurs in a cell, the
algorithm assumes that the rate for the new crime will temporarily increase,
like an aftershock following an earthquake. n54 Over time, the rate for new
crime declines the longer the cell goes without seeing any new crime, similar to
how the aftershocks of an earthquake diminish over time. n55 As one of PredPol's
developers, Jeffrey Brantingham, explains, "Crime hotspots pop up and spread and
disappear and pop up again in really complicated ways that are just very, very
difficult, if not impossible, for the individual to intuit." n56 Thus, to ensure
accuracy when using the near repeat model, agencies must regularly input new
data into the software because without up-to-date information, the utility of
the software's predictions will diminish over time. n57

   Software based on the near repeat model has a high-rate of success for
predicting where and when burglaries are likely to occur in an area. n58
Although the near repeat model can accurately predict patterns in property
crimes, it is unclear whether this model can effectively forecast other types of
crime, such as gun violence or crimes of passion. n59 However, the results of
one study were promising. The study showed that the near repeat model accurately
forecasted the location of violent rival-gang related activity. n60 These
findings support the proposition that in evidence suppression hearings, courts
could rely on statistical outputs from predictive policing software to evaluate
a police officer's claim that a particular stop-and-frisk occurred in a
high-crime area.

   C. Risk Terrain Modeling (RTM)

 The risk terrain model serves as the foundation for some predictive policing
software. RTM uses geographic information systems to identify geographic
features that contribute to elevated crime risk and overlays them onto a base
map. n61 Potential geographic features used to predict crime risk in this model
include: bars, liquor stores, and strip clubs. n62 RTM is akin  [*310]  to a
base map with layers of tracing paper laid on top of it - as more environmental
features are plotted on top of each other, clusters of potential criminal
activity are revealed based on these existing features. n63 The model's
algorithm then makes predictions about an area's risk for crime based on how
close the selected geographic location is to identified environmental features.
n64

   Unlike the near repeat model, the RTM predicts crimes based on the
interactions between behavioral, social, physical, and environmental factors,
instead of solely using information about where and when past criminal activity
occurred. n65 For example, in Morris County, New Jersey, a RTM map was created
to analyze burglaries. n66 The map was generated using five variables: "(1) past
burglaries, (2) the residential location of individuals arrested for theft or
burglary between 2009 and 2011, (3) the proximity to major highways, (4) the
geographic concentration of males between the ages of 16 and 24, and (5) the
location of apartment complexes and hotels." n67 Morris County police
administrators used the map to direct their resources to high-risk areas, which
led to a general decrease in crime, and more specifically, decreases in both
violent and property crimes. n68 RTM is considered genuinely predictive; it
forecasts future crime using a location's geographic and environmental
attributes rather than relying on data related to past criminal activity in that
area. n69 Hence, software based on RTM could potentially be used to accurately
forecast potential hotspots for specific types of criminal activity.

   Although new predictive policing software has the potential to precisely
define high-crime areas, the models underlying the software have limitations.
The following section describes the general limitations of predictive policing
technologies. Part V describes how to overcome these limitations to ensure that
these technologies produce fair, accurate, and reliable data that courts can use
to decide whether the high-crime label is appropriate for an area.

[*311]

   D. General Limitations of Predictive Policing Technologies

 Although predictive policing software provides law enforcement agencies with a
powerful tool that can help them efficiently allocate crime fighting resources,
these technologies have some common limitations. First, effective use of
predictive policing technologies requires reliability, transparency, and
accuracy in data collection and analysis; without safeguards in place, data is
susceptible to human fallibility. n70 Second, taken alone, predictive policing
software cannot establish the requisite level of particularized suspicion
required to perform a lawful Terry stop (premised on reasonable suspicion). n71

   1. Humans Create Data, Which Leaves it Fallible to Human Error

 Currently, there are no uniform standards or best practices in place to guide
police departments as they collect the data that will be used as inputs for
statistical analysis. Data creation requires humans to select what information
to collect and what information to discard - similar to the old adage, "garbage
in, garbage out." n72 An uninformed user may believe that the representation of
"previously unseen truths" generated by predictive policing software tells an
entirely objective story. n73 However, this is not the case, because "data is
something we create" n74 by making choices about what information to collect and
the method used to collect it. Thus, police departments and courts should
proceed cautiously when evaluating the statistical outputs from predictive
policing algorithms because "the word "data' connotes fixed numbers inside hard
grids of information and as a result, it is easily mistaken for fact." n75

   Moreover, humans select the language used to describe data - there is no
mandatory program in place to guide data classification. Unfortunately, there is
a common misconception that local law enforcement agencies are required to
conform to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) Uniform Crime Reporting
(UCR) Program standards to classify crimes. n76  [*312]  However, when reviewing
the UCR Handbook it becomes clear that this program is permissive, and the FBI
merely recommends that agencies conform to its classification system. n77 As the
FBI explains on its website, "Offense definitions may vary from state to state"
and the FBI asks "agencies to report offenses not according to local or state
statutes but according to those guidelines provided in the handbook." n78 The
FBI notes that "most agencies make a good faith effort to comply with
established guidelines," n79 however, compliance is not required. Hence, law
enforcement agencies have discretion to describe crime data even when reporting
to the FBI under the UCR Program. n80 As such, one might say, the data is "only
as good as the people using it." n81

   Moreover, critics of predictive policing technologies suggest that
data-driven policing may create "self-fulfilling cycles of bias" for police
departments using this information to make resource allocation decisions. n82
For example, if statistical outputs suggest that a neighborhood is a "high-crime
area", a law enforcement agency may police that area more heavily than others.
This increased police presence may in turn generate more arrests in the
neighborhood because of the increased crime detection capacity. Thus, when new
arrest data is added to the predictive policing software, it may reinforce a
department's original prediction by directing crime-fighting resources to an
area that is already heavily policed. The algorithm then gives the impression
that there are heightened levels of criminal activity in that neighborhood, when
in reality, more criminals are getting caught because there are more police
officers present to detect crime. n83 Heightened police presence in a
neighborhood can lead to more stop-and-frisks and skew the data, so it appears
that one neighborhood has a higher crime rate than other areas. n84 Thus,
without safeguards in place, data analytics and  [*313]  data collection are
susceptible to human fallibility. "Predictive policing can be a very useful
tool, but it is just that - a tool. It is not a crystal ball." n85

   2. Predictive Policing Technologies Cannot Establish Particularized Suspicion
that Criminal Activity is Afoot

 Under the Fourth Amendment reasonable suspicion analysis, performing a lawful
stop-and-frisk of a suspect requires police officers to have a particularized
suspicion that criminal activity is afoot. n86 In order to justify a Terry stop,
an officer needs to observe a person acting suspiciously. n87 Because predictive
policing software uses probabilities to predict when and where criminal activity
is likely to occur, n88 a police officer cannot use the statistical data derived
from this software as his sole basis for justifying a Terry stop. In other
words, these technologies can provide generalized predictions of criminal
activity but they cannot establish the requisite particularized suspicion
required by the Fourth Amendment's reasonable suspicion calculus. For example,
Seattle's PredPol software predicted that a robbery would unfold in a "tiny
patch of downtown that is dotted with liquor stores and loiterers." n89 A
robbery occurred in the area as predicted. However, "not one that a computer
program could have predicted: a thief walked into a Chinese restaurant and made
off with a live crab." n90

   As one expert laments, "Technology such as predictive policing creates
"categorical suspicion' of people in predicted crime areas, which can lead to
unnecessary questioning or excessive stopping-and-searching." n91 Thus, reliance
on statistical outputs from predictive policing technologies must be limited to
helping an officer develop a generalized suspicion about imminent criminal
activity. n92 An officer still needs to observe a specific person behaving
suspiciously in order to perform a lawful Terry stop in an alleged high-crime
area. n93 The concepts of particularized suspicion and the reasonable suspicion
calculus are described in more detail below.

[*314]

   II. From Terry to Wardlow: Eroding Fourth Amendment Protections in Amorphous
High-Crime Areas

 The Fourth Amendment guarantees "the right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures
... ," n94 and requires police officers to conform to a "a standard of
reasonableness" when engaging with private individuals "to safeguard the privacy
and security of individuals against arbitrary invasions ... ." n95 However, the
Supreme Court has chipped away at this constitutional protection since its
groundbreaking decision in Terry v. Ohio in 1968. n96 The Terry Court carved out
an exception to the probable cause requirement for searches and seizures, and
developed a new threshold standard of reasonable suspicion. n97 In 2000, the
Court further weakened Fourth Amendment protections in Illinois v. Wardlow,
where an ambiguously defined "high-crime area" designation was permitted to
serve as one of only two factors in finding reasonable suspicion to perform a
lawful Terry stop. n98 In the wake of Wardlow, lower courts have struggled to
define high-crime areas in evidence suppression hearings.

   A. Terry v. Ohio (1968): The Origins of the "Terry Stop," the Totality of the
Circumstances Analysis, and the Path to "High-Crime Area" Designations

 Terry v. Ohio established the reasonable suspicion standard. Under the
reasonable suspicion standard, a police officer may perform a lawful "Terry
stop," a brief seizure and a partial search of a criminal suspect, when the
totality of the circumstances lead the officer to believe criminal activity is
afoot. n99 The totality of the circumstances test uses an objective standard to
assess what a trained police officer would reasonably believe in the context of
a specific stop. n100 A police officer must "point to specific and articulable
facts, which taken together with rational inferences from those facts,
reasonably warrant that intrusion." n101 The test is a "practical, nontechnical
[*315]  conception" n102 balancing direct observations of a suspect's behavior
and the entire context of a stop to establish particularized suspicion that
criminal activity is afoot. n103 In order to perform a lawful Terry stop, an
officer needs more than a "hunch"; he must directly observe suspicious behavior.
n104 The officer must demonstrate that actions of the suspect somehow
"distinguished that individual from the larger universe of law-abiding
citizens." n105 Moreover, "the scope of the search must be "strictly tied to and
justified by' the circumstances which rendered its initiation permissible." n106
Thus, the Terry Court viewed this new reasonable suspicion standard as carving
out "limited exceptions to the general rule that seizures of the person require
probable cause to arrest." n107

   There are two scenarios in which lawful Terry stops arise. The first type of
Terry stop occurs when an officer fears imminent danger to himself, and the
context in which, the Terry Court envisioned these stops would occur. n108 In
this situation, an officer can conduct an over the clothes pat down of a suspect
limited to a search for weapons. n109 The second scenario, developed after the
Terry decision; n110 it arises when an officer observes a suspect's behavior and
believes that a specific type of criminal activity is afoot based on these
observations. n111 In this scenario, an officer's search should be limited to
frisking for evidence related to the specific suspected  [*316]  criminal
activity. n112 For example, a police officer observes members of Hell's Angels
outside of a motorcycle shop; after observing their behavior, the officer
suspects that they intend to rob the shop. An officer may lawfully perform a
limited, over the clothes frisk for a commercial grade lock cutter or other
typical burglary tools. n113

   Terry stops performed under the purview of the second scenario can be
problematic. When Chief Justice Warren wrote the Terry opinion, he recognized
that the seizure of a person is more than a "mere minor inconvenience and petty
indignity[;]" rather, it "is a serious intrusion upon the sanctity of the
person, which may inflict great indignity and arouse strong resentment, and it
is not to be undertaken lightly." n114 He pointed to then-current police
scholarship to underscore his concerns that police officers may abuse their
authority to stop-and-frisk, and use it as a means to maintain the image of
police power and control in a neighborhood. n115 Chief Justice Warren's
hypothetical concerns about law enforcement abusing the power to stop-and-frisk
in the Terry stop context recently became reality in New York City.

   The NYPD has been accused of targeting certain demographics (i.e., young
minority men) and performing excessive stop-and-frisks. n116 A fact sheet
created by the New York Civil Liberties Union observes, "though they account for
only 4.7% of the city's population, black and Latino males between the ages of
14-24 accounted for 41.6 [percent] of the stops in 2011," and that "the number
of stops of young black men exceeded the entire city population of young black
men." n117 Studies of the NYPD's stop-and-frisk reports have shown that a
disproportionate number of minority persons have been stopped-and-frisked with a
very small number of these searches leading to arrests. n118 In 2000, Wardlow
further minimized the required nexus between observed behavior and specific
crime type when the Supreme Court allowed the characterization of a neighborhood
as a high-  [*317]  crime area to serve as one of only two factors in the
totality of the circumstances test. n119

   B. Illinois v. Wardlow (2000): The Totality of Circumstances Test Becomes a
Two-Factor Test Giving Rise to the Amorphous "High-Crime Area" Label

 In Illinois v. Wardlow, the Supreme Court explicitly declared that the
designation of a neighborhood as a "high-crime area" could serve as one of two
required factors in the totality of the circumstances test. n120 The Court
explained that "officers are not required to ignore the relevant characteristics
of a location in determining whether the circumstances are sufficiently
suspicious to warrant further investigation," and that past precedent permitted
this finding. n121 Hence, a police officer met the threshold requirement for
reasonable suspicion when he stop-and-frisked Sam Wardlow based on two factors:
(1) Mr. Wardlow's presence in a known narcotics trafficking area (i.e.,
high-crime area), and (2) his "unprovoked flight upon noticing the police." n122
By relying solely on these two factors to find reasonable suspicion, the Wardlow
Court dramatically expanded the role that neighborhood character could play in
the totality of the circumstances analysis. By giving the high-crime area label
significant weight in the reasonable suspicion calculus, the Court weakened the
required nexus between particularized suspicion and suspected criminal activity.
n123 The Court effectively bifurcated Fourth Amendment jurisprudence by
according people two different levels of Fourth Amendment protections based on
their geographic location. n124 If an individual behaves ambiguously in a
designated "high-crime area," he is more likely to be stopped-and-frisked
because of his presence in this area than a person who behaves similarly in a
neighborhood without the high-crime label. n125 Under Wardlow, standing in an
area labeled as high-crime is enough to create a generalized suspicion of
criminal wrongdoing. n126  [*318]  When a person's presence in a high-crime area
is coupled with an ambiguous activity, such as standing on a street corner in
the Englewood neighborhood of Chicago holding a plastic bag, officers are more
likely to interpret ambiguous conduct as indicative of criminal wrongdoing. n127
Whereas, standing on a corner and talking to someone while holding a plastic bag
in the wealthy Gold Coast neighborhood of Chicago will likely not elicit the
same response from the police. n128 Many Wardlow critics have questioned whether
Wardlow's presence on a street corner holding a plastic bag was any more
indicative of criminal activity than the actions of the other 98,000 people
living in the same district. n129

   Although the Wardlow decision has significantly weakened the Fourth Amendment
protections provided to individuals living in areas labeled as high-crime, the
Wardlow Court did recognize that neighborhood character alone could not justify
an officer's finding of reasonable suspicion. n130 The totality of the
circumstances test still requires a police officer to have a particularized
suspicion that criminal activity is afoot; this factor of particularized
suspicion appears to carry more weight than the factor of neighborhood
character. n131 Thus, taken alone, an individual's mere presence in a high-crime
area without indicia that he is engaged in criminal activity would not be enough
to justify a stop-and-frisk. n132 However, because the Supreme Court failed to
offer a definition for the "high-crime area" label or provide guidance to lower
courts regarding the evidence required to prove that an area is indeed
high-crime, n133 courts have struggled to develop socially just standards that
offer equal levels of Fourth Amendment protections to everyone, regardless of a
person's geographic location.

[*319]

   C. Post-Wardlow: The Vague High-Crime Area Label Mucks Up Fourth Amendment
Jurisprudence

 The Wardlow Court did not establish a clear definition for "high-crime area" or
the criteria to use to evaluate the character of an area. n134 Courts all over
the United States "began labeling areas as "high-crime' without settling on a
definition" or using a uniform method to determine whether an area is
high-crime. n135 The absence of a uniform approach to evaluating neighborhood
character has led jurisdictions to haphazardly define and classify high-crime
areas. n136 For example, some courts describe high-crime areas as locations of
known drug activity or locations under police surveillance. n137 Others will
accept an officer's subjective belief that an area is high-crime without
requiring him to offer facts corroborating his testimony. n138 Other courts have
labeled an "area of expected criminal activity" n139 as high-crime without
requiring any data to support this claim. n140 Generally, courts have been
deferential to the government's high-crime classifications. n141 Courts
typically do not require the government to present quantitative evidence to
support its classifications, even though advancements in crime-mapping
technologies have made it possible for police departments to analyze actual
reported crime levels in specific geographic areas and compare crime rates
across jurisdictions. n142 Crime maps and analysts' reports are rarely
introduced in court to prove that a Terry stop actually occurred in a high-crime
area. n143 For example, in United States v. Baskin, the Seventh Circuit
expressly rejected the argument that the government must produce "specific data"
to establish that a location is  [*320]  a "high-crime area." n144 The court
held that the location of Baskin's unprovoked flight remained a relevant factor
because the Terry stop occurred near a "newly discovered" methamphetamine lab in
a county park. n145 The court accepted the Government's decision to designate a
park as a high-crime area without requiring the Government to present any actual
data to support its assertion. n146

   The lack of rigor used to establish an objective basis for defining an area
as high-crime has frustrated some judges. n147 Many judges and scholars have
expressed their concern about the continued erosion of Fourth Amendment
protections in neighborhoods haphazardly designated as high-crime. n148 For
example, the majority opinion in United States v. Montero-Carmargo stated that
the court must be careful that the high-crime label does not just blanket
communities "in which members of minority groups regularly go about their daily
business, but is limited to specific, circumscribed locations where particular
crimes occur with unusual regularity." n149 Although the Montero-Carmargo Court
expressed that it wanted to exercise caution when applying the high-crime label,
it failed to employ this rigor. n150 Judge Kozinski criticizes the majority for
deferring to the two arresting officers' perception of an area as high-crime as
sufficient to label it as such. n151 He warns, "to rely on every cop's
repertoire of war stories to determine what is a "high crime area' - and on that
basis to treat otherwise innocuous behavior as grounds for reasonable suspicion
- strikes me as an invitation to trouble." n152 Judge Kozinski further laments:



   The question is not whether the characteristics of the area may be taken into
account, but how these characteristics are established. In our first opinion to
interpret this language from Wardlow, the majority adopts a  [*321]  methodology
for establishing the characteristics of the area that is about as rigorous as
the recipe for Leftovers Casserole. n153


   III. Low-Income and Minority Neighborhoods are Disproportionately Impacted by
Heavy Policing and Frequent Stop-And-Frisks

 Continuing to permit law enforcement agencies to rely on ambiguous definitions
of high-crime areas comes at a significant cost to the people who live in these
neighborhoods. As noted previously, the high-crime label tends to attach to
hypersegregated, low-income, minority neighborhoods across the United States.
n154 Many of these neighborhoods became saturated with police officers when the
United States began its War on Drugs during the Reagan Administration. n155
Heavy policing of these low income-minority neighborhoods has led to a
disproportionate number of people of color being stopped-and-frisked. n156 The
Wardlow Court's transformation of the reasonable suspicion totality of the
circumstances test into a two-factor test, has made it even easier for police
officers to justify Terry stops in these alleged high-crime areas because courts
are deferential to police officers' subjective beliefs about elevated crime
rates in particular neighborhoods. n157 Thus, the reduction of the reasonable
suspicion test into a two-factor test, and the structural racism built into our
criminal justice system has helped fuel a culture of mass incarceration, and has
disproportionately affected low-income minority neighborhoods. n158

   Mass incarceration refers to the American cultural phenomenon of "the
imprisonment of comparatively and historically high proportions of the
population that cannot be accounted for by changes in crime rates." n159
Currently, the United States "has the largest reported incarcerated population
in the world, and by far the highest rate of imprisonment." n160 The  [*322]
number of prisoners in both federal and state facilities has increased by nearly
430 percent between 1979 and 2009. n161 Moreover, "racial disparities in
imprisonment rates are striking. For every 100,000 Americans in each race or
gender group, there are 478 white males, 3,023 black males, 51 white females,
and 129 black females incarcerated in state or federal prison." n162 Undeniably,
people of color are disproportionately overrepresented in the criminal justice
system. n163

   In The New Jim Crow, Michelle Alexander describes how the War on Drugs and
the structural racism embedded in our criminal justice system have devastated
low-income minority communities across the United States. n164 The culture of
heavy policing created by the War on Drugs in low-income minority neighborhoods
has fostered significant animosity between the police and residents of these
neighborhoods. n165 Alexander observes that even though studies show that rates
of drug use are similar across races, each year a disproportionate number of
African American men are swept into the criminal justice system for low-level
drug offenses because of racially biased police discretion. n166

   Many scholars and law enforcement agencies have tried to justify heavily
policing low-income minority neighborhoods by arguing that residents of these
communities are more likely to engage in illegal activity outdoors and in plain
sight than in higher-income areas. n167 These agencies argue that concentrating
drug enforcement efforts in these neighborhoods enables them to efficiently
allocate resources while combating illegal activity. n168 However, unlike their
wealthier neighbors who would not tolerate heavy policing, residents of
low-income minority neighborhoods often lack power in our political system,
leaving them vulnerable to this biased policing. n169 As Alexander notes,
"Hypersegregation ... has made the round-up easy. Confined to ghetto areas and
lacking political power, the black poor  [*323]  are convenient targets." n170
Heavy policing of these low-income neighborhoods has created an expectation
among residents, particularly among young black men, that they will "be stopped,
interrogated, and frisked numerous times in the course of a month, or even a
single week." n171 In her book, Alexander shares a story from a law student who
participated in a ride-along with a Chicago police officer. The student
described how, "each time we drove into a public housing project and stopped the
car, every young black man in the area would almost reflexively place his hands
up against the car and spread his legs to be searched." n172 These regular
encounters with law enforcement are problematic because they often function as
"the gateway into the criminal justice system" for non-violent, low-level
offenses such as marijuana possession. n173

   Arrests for low-level non-violent offenses have created a climate where "a
staggering 5.1 million people [are] under "community correctional supervision' -
i.e., on probation or parole." n174 Moreover, an individual does not even need
to be convicted of a crime to be barred from gainful employment, access to
public housing or other public assistance - getting arrested is enough to
essentially lock someone out of mainstream society. n175 Once a person has been
swept into the criminal justice system, it is difficult to get out. n176
Scholar, Loic Wacquant has described this phenomenon "of people cycling in and
out of prison" and "trapped by their second-class status" as a "closed circuit
of perpetual marginality." n177 Thus, requiring narrower definitions of
high-crime areas could reduce the number of Terry stops that occur in these
neighborhoods. Reducing the number of Terry stops occurring in these
neighborhoods may, in turn, reduce the number of young minority men who are
swept into the criminal justice system's "closed circuit of perpetual
marginality" for committing low-level, non-violent offenses. n178

[*324]

   IV. The Role of Technology in Fourth Amendment Jurisprudence

 The courts have not only struggled with defining high-crime areas and applying
Wardlow, they have also had difficulty evaluating the role that emerging
technologies should play in Fourth Amendment analyses. In recent years,
technology has become increasingly complex and judges have had trouble staying
abreast of the latest developments. As Judge Posner lamented in his book,
Reflections on Judging, "Federal judges are on the whole not well adapted by
training or experience to the technological age that we live in." n179 However,
as new technologies develop, the courts must figure out how to embrace these
technological advancements because the "law must apply itself to the life of a
society driven more and more by technology and technological improvements." n180

   The Supreme Court has yet to hear a case specifically addressing the use of
predictive policing technology; however, past cases have required the Court to
strike a balance between permitting law enforcement to use emerging technologies
and safeguarding Americans' Fourth Amendment protections. n181 For example, when
deciding whether police officers' use of a thermal imaging device constituted an
unlawful search of a private home in Kyllo v. United States, Justice Scalia
wrote, "It would be foolish to contend that the degree of privacy secured to
citizens by the Fourth Amendment has been entirely unaffected by the advance of
technology." n182 In this case, police officers suspected that Kyllo was growing
marijuana in his home and used a thermal imager to determine if the heat
emanating from his home was consistent with the high intensity heat lamps
typically required to grow marijuana. n183 Although Justice Scalia recognized
that the technology of the particular device used by the officers was "crude,"
n184 he acknowledged that as technology evolves, these devices have the
potential to reveal all human activity in the home. n185 Anticipating that
significant technological advancement  [*325]  was on the horizon, the Court
ruled that the use of thermal imaging devices constituted an unlawful search in
violation of the Fourth Amendment. n186 Moreover, writing for the Court, Justice
Scalia rejected a case-by-case approach to deciding whether a law enforcement
agency's use of an emerging technology was lawful. n187 Justice Scalia reasoned
that before a law enforcement agency uses new technology as part of its policing
efforts, it must know whether the use of such technology is lawful, so the
agency can adjust its policing strategies accordingly. n188

   The Court's reasoning in a 2014 case, Riley v. California, further
illustrates the Court's preference for using a long-term and uniform approach to
evaluating the role of new technologies in Fourth Amendment jurisprudence. n189
The question presented to the Court in Riley was whether the police may perform
a warrantless search of the digital information on a cell phone seized from a
person who was lawfully arrested. n190 Writing for the Court, Chief Justice
Roberts focused on the sophistication of emerging technologies, such as the
smartphone, and highlighted the pervasiveness of technology in our society. n191
He observed how quickly this technology has evolved, citing a Pew Research
Center Study from 2013, and noting that even the outdated flip phone technology
of one of the arrestees, had "been around for less than 15 years." n192

   After describing the sophistication and prevalence of these smartphones in
our daily lives, the Court rejected the Government's arguments for permitting
warrantless cell phone searches. n193 Chief Justice Roberts describes the
Court's "general preference to provide clear guidance to law enforcement through
categorical rules." n194 Quoting Michigan v. Summers, the Court reasoned, "If
police are to have workable rules, the balancing of the competing interests ...
"must in large part be done on a categorical basis - not in an ad hoc,
case-by-case fashion by individual police officers.'" n195 In order to ensure
that law enforcement agencies understand  [*326]  how they may lawfully use the
technology on which they rely, they need clear categorical rules delineating
these parameters - even for emerging technologies.

   As Judge Posner further observes in his book, new technologies that rely on
complex mathematical models and statistical analyses can be particularly
difficult for judges to understand when compared with technologies of the past,
such as the steam engine or the automobile. n196 He explains that compared to
the latest emerging technologies, even when technologies of the past were
complex, it was easier to explain how they worked to judges who did not possess
a technical background. n197 Evaluating emerging technologies places judges who
do not have technical or scientific backgrounds in uncomfortable territory
because they must make sense of "the kinds of variables that science measures"
rather than the soft variables they are accustomed to in the courtroom. n198

   Judges' reluctance to embrace new technology and rely on quantitative data in
evidence suppression hearings can be seen in courtrooms across the country. As
discussed previously, courts have been reluctant to rely on the statistical data
that parties have offered as evidence to prove or disprove a police officer's
assertion that he performed a Terry stop in a high-crime area. n199 However, as
predictive policing technologies become increasingly popular and become an
essential law enforcement tool, the courts will not be able to ignore the
existence of these sophisticated technologies.

   In order for law enforcement agencies to fully integrate this technology into
their daily policing strategies and avoid running afoul of the Fourth Amendment,
these agencies need guidance from the courts. Moreover, as law enforcement
begins to increasingly rely on this technology, Americans will expect courts to
integrate the statistical outputs from these technologies into their reasoning
to ensure that individuals' constitutional rights are protected. Thus, courts
must acknowledge the role of these emerging technologies in law enforcement
activities and begin to responsibly integrate quantitative data into their
decision-making processes.

[*327]

   V. Standardizing Predictive Policing Technologies to Ensure Fairness,
Accuracy, Reliability and Transparency

 A 2012 survey by the FBI identified 14,006 law enforcement agencies across the
United States, which employ 670,439 full-time law enforcement officers. n200 As
predictive policing technologies continue to evolve and technology becomes
increasingly integrated into all aspects of our lives, it is likely that the
United States' roughly 14,000 law enforcement agencies and their 670,439
officers will choose to incorporate this software into their day-to-day
operations and decision-making processes. In fact, "jurisdictions as diverse as
Palm Beach County, Florida; Memphis, Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois; Minneapolis,
Minnesota; and Dallas, Texas, are testing predictive policing" software. n201 As
the use of predictive policing software becomes more widespread, it will become
impossible for judges to ignore quantitative data in the courtroom. n202 Judges
will no longer be able to defer to police officers' subjective experiences when
defining high-crime areas. n203

   Therefore, mandatory uniform standards and best practices must be established
to ensure that the information produced by predictive policing technologies is
fair, accurate, reliable and transparent. Congress should call on the FBI to
establish these uniform standards and best practices, and oversee the
implementation of these technologies across law enforcement agencies. Creating
uniform standards will enable the 14,000 law enforcement agencies in the United
States to responsibly rely on these technologies in their day-to-day work.
Having the FBI develop and implement these standards will also enable judges to
reasonably rely on data from these programs when deciding whether an officer had
reasonable suspicion to perform a Terry stop in an alleged high-crime area. n204
Most importantly, integrating quantitative data into the reasonable suspicion
analysis will help  [*328]  restore eroded Fourth Amendment protections to
people living in heavily policed neighborhoods.

   A. Utilize the FBI to Coordinate and Oversee Predictive Policing Technologies


 Congress should pass legislation requiring the FBI to create mandatory uniform
standards and best practices to guide law enforcement agencies in their use of
predictive policing technologies. The FBI is the appropriate agency to develop
these guidelines and to oversee law enforcement agencies across the country for
a variety of reasons.

   First, as an agency under the umbrella of the United States Department of
Justice, the FBI collects an array of information about crime and other relevant
law enforcement topics, demonstrating the FBI's high-level of institutional
competence in this area. n205 For example, the FBI already uses the information
it gathers to generate reports that American law enforcement agencies can use to
guide their crime fighting strategies in areas as diverse as terrorism and
white-collar crime. n206 Because the FBI has the capacity to serve as a
clearinghouse for information, it is well suited to develop best practices for
collecting and analyzing data.

   Second, providing oversight and establishing best practices for the use of
predictive policing technologies in municipal police departments, aligns with
both the FBI's mission, and its goal of combating public corruption and
protecting civil rights. n207 The FBI's mission is "to uphold and enforce the
criminal laws of the United States, and to provide leadership and criminal
justice services to federal, state, municipal, and international agencies and
partners." n208 Requiring the FBI to develop mandatory uniform standards will
help the FBI further its mission because the Bureau will lead the way by
developing fair and appropriate technology-based policing strategies. Moreover,
the FBI will further its goals of combating public corruption and protecting
civil rights by helping local law enforcement agencies understand the
limitations of these technologies. n209 Creating data-  [*329]  neutral policies
for local law enforcement to follow will minimize the risk of unreliable and
inaccurate data collection and analysis, and help safeguard Americans' Fourth
Amendment protections.

   Third, the FBI is well-equipped to provide neutral third-party oversight
because the agency has an extensive and reputable community outreach program.
n210 Over time, the Bureau has formed many successful partnerships with law
enforcement agencies in the United States and around the globe. n211 The FBI
often calls upon former graduates of its National Academy to help train police
officers and build interagency relationships to increase the effectiveness of
law enforcement operations. n212 Thus, the FBI is already a well-established and
well-respected organization capable of working in unison with the 14,000
agencies around the country to develop mandatory standards and best practices to
ensure the responsible use of predictive policing technology.

   B. Establish Mandatory Uniform Standards and Oversight to Ensure Fairness,
Accuracy, Reliability and Transparency

 Establishing mandatory uniform standards that: guide how data is collected and
entered into predictive policing programs, provide for routine audits of local
law enforcement's predictive policing systems, and guide how algorithms are
written, will significantly decrease potential risks associated with human
fallibility in big data collection. n213 Having the FBI implement uniform
standards will help safeguard against "blind reliance on the forecast, divorced
from the reason for the forecast" n214 in police departments' use of predictive
policing technologies.

   First, new mandatory standards should prescribe procedures that ensure data
is systematically gathered and entered into the software on a regular basis.
Developing a uniform system for data collection and entry will reinforce the
accuracy of the system's algorithms, maximize their objective predictive
utility, and help guard against human bias. After all, "if the  [*330]  data
collection, recording, analysis, or retention is flawed, then the entire system
is called into question." n215

   Second, when developing these standards, the FBI should require police
departments to provide mandatory predictive policing training to their staff.
During this training, law enforcement agencies would describe: permissible
methods for data collection, the limitations of this technology as a
crime-fighting tool, and the constitutional concerns triggered by the use of
this technology. The FBI should also provide third-party oversight by conducting
routine audits of predictive policing systems. During these audits, the FBI can
ensure that local police departments comply with its mandatory standards for
training, data collection and analysis. By auditing these systems, the FBI can
effectively allay concerns about human manipulation of crime data. n216

   Third, FBI oversight is needed to validate and test algorithms of predictive
policing software. Requiring neutral third party testing of these algorithms
ensures that they paint an unbiased picture of criminal activity, and do not
create self-fulfilling prophecies of bias against any demographic or geographic
location. n217 Recently, the need for third party monitoring of police practices
to protect civil liberties was recognized in Floyd v. City of New York, where
the NYPD was accused of abusing its power to stop-and-frisk. n218

   Although Floyd's procedural history led to debate about the validity of the
court's decision, n219 the NYPD consented to adhere to some of Judge
Scheindlin's holdings. Primarily, the NYPD consented to allow third-party
oversight of its aggressive stop-and-frisk program, which led to a
disproportionate number of stop-and-frisks taking place in black and Latino
neighborhoods. n220 Similar to the NYPD's stop-and-frisk program, predictive
policing algorithms require closer inspection. When law enforcement uses
predictive policing software to allocate resources, civil liberties are at
[*331]  stake because inaccurate data collection and algorithms can lead to
crime forecasts tainted by human bias. In order to avoid abuses of police power,
law enforcement must be held accountable for their policing strategies -
especially in already vulnerable low-income minority communities. A neutral
third party testing requirement would also help legitimize this technology, and
make judges more inclined to accept the statistical outputs from these programs
as evidence in the courtroom. Using the FBI as the gatekeeper for this testing
would be particularly advantageous because it would enable private companies
developing proprietary algorithms to maintain their trade secrets, while
simultaneously ensuring that the quantitative data output from these programs is
reliable. Additionally, requiring mandatory third party testing and validation
of these programs will enable judges to rely on the quantitative data presented
to them by parties in a courtroom without requiring judges to act as
statisticians, who must parse complex algorithms or evaluate the minutia of data
collection techniques. In this scenario, judges could defer to a sophisticated
neutral-party's opinion about the validity of the data presented and focus on
requiring police departments to define high-crime areas with increased
specificity and accuracy.

   Moreover, requiring police departments to narrowly define high-crime areas is
no Herculean task. A lot of crime data is readily available and can be plugged
into common platforms, such as Google Earth. Thus, communities need not even
rely on expensive proprietary predictive policing software. Instead, they can
use these rather rudimentary programs to track various types of crime and
demonstrate a propensity for a specific type of crime at a specific location.

   C. Courts Should Use Predictive Policing Technology to Create Narrow
Definitions of High-Crime Areas Based on Both Geography and Crime Type

 Neutral third party oversight can bolster the legitimacy of predictive policing
software and transform how judges evaluate high-crime classifications at
evidence suppression hearings across the United States. n221 As the use of this
technology becomes a ubiquitous part of policing, and standards are implemented
to ensure data reliability, judges should create narrowly defined high-crime
area designations based on not only geographic location - but  [*332]  crime
type as well. Judges should require law enforcement agencies and prosecutors to
present quantitative data to demonstrate that an area labeled as high-crime is
in fact high-crime.

   Law enforcement agencies will likely claim that procuring and preserving the
quantitative data an officer used to justify a finding of reasonable suspicion
is too burdensome of a responsibility. However, this is not the case.
Technological advancements in the United States have created an overarching
public expectation of transparency in government n222 and have made it easier
for government agencies to preserve data. In order to safeguard this
transparency, many Americans' believe that government agencies have an
institutional responsibility to preserve data that is critical to maintaining
this transparency. n223 The widespread growth of cloud computing has made it
easy for government agencies to store vast quantities of data without
overburdening their resources, n224 and fulfill the public's expectations for
government transparency.

   As explained in Part I, predictive policing technologies have the capability
of not only forecasting where crime will occur on a micro-scale of a 500-foot
radius, but can also predict the specific types of crime that are likely to
occur at a given location in a community. n225 Therefore, predictive policing
software has the capability of meaningfully defining high-crime areas based on
both geographic location and crime-type. Harnessing the full technological
capabilities of this software enables law enforcement agencies to eliminate the
vague and generic "high-crime area" label.

   Existing vague high-crime area definitions can be replaced by specific
classifications of criminal activity, such as designating a location as a
"high-brown heroin drug trafficking area" or "high-residential robbery area."
Using these crime specific classifications will help restore individuals' Fourth
Amendment protections in communities that were historically characterized as
high-crime under Wardlow's vague and overbroad standard. n226 Narrowly defining
crime areas can help restore Fourth Amendment protections by tightening the
required nexus between direct observation of suspicious conduct and an area's
propensity for crime.

    [*333]  Tightening this nexus will make police officers more accountable for
their stop-and-frisk activity, and limit the role that a person's presence in a
high-crime area can play when searching based on reasonable suspicion. Moreover,
if law enforcement wants to benefit from predictive policing technology's
ability to predict crime in a 500-foot radius, then law enforcement should be
constrained by this same specificity. An officer should be required to use the
same level of specificity to prove that she had reasonable suspicion to perform
a Terry stop of a suspect in an area alleged to have a high propensity for a
specific crime type.

   Finally, because predictive policing technology is "more objective than a
patrol officer's hunch about an area" n227 and harnesses the power of big data
to find patterns of criminal activity based on statistical algorithms, judges
should place the burden on law enforcement agencies and prosecutors to present
quantitative data supporting their high-crime designation. Law enforcement
agencies and prosecutors should carry the burden of demonstrating that the data
relied upon reflects a high-crime rate for the specific type of criminal
activity the police officer suspected was afoot. For example, if we applied the
facts of Terry v. Ohio to a community using predictive policing software under
this proposed model, would the court still find that Officer McFadden, the
officer in Terry, had the requisite reasonable suspicion to perform a
stop-and-frisk? n228 Officer McFadden could meet the threshold requirement for
particularized suspicion because he watched the suspects walk back and forth
past the jewelry store alone dozens of time, and each time stopping to peer in
the window. n229 However, officer McFadden's finding of reasonable suspicion
could be further bolstered if ten minutes before seeing the two suspects walking
by the jewelry store, the predictive policing software installed in his patrol
car corroborated his belief that the neighborhood had a high propensity for
non-residential burglary. n230 Although, the facts of Terry are straightforward
because of the suspects' repetitive behavior, this example demonstrates how a
court could use quantitative data as a tool to decide whether a lawful Terry
stop was performed in an alleged high-crime area.

[*334]

   Conclusion

 As Cornel West wrote in his forward to the New Jim Crow, "Martin Luther King
Jr. called for us to be lovestruck with each other, not colorblind toward each
other. To be lovestruck is to care, to have deep compassion, and to be concerned
for each and every individual, including the poor and vulnerable." n231 As a
society, we have an obligation to protect the civil rights of all people,
including the poor and vulnerable. Restoring Fourth Amendment protections to
low-income minority communities is essential to creating a socially just world.

   Predictive policing technologies can play a critical role in restoring Fourth
Amendment protections to neighborhoods historically stamped with the "high-crime
area" label. To ensure that this technology is used fairly and responsibly by
law enforcement agencies, it is critical to establish both neutral third party
oversight and mandatory uniform standards. The latest generation of predictive
policing technology has the ability to forecast crime, based on both geography
and specific crime type, and can be used to help courts and police departments
narrowly define "high-crime areas." Establishing narrowly defined high-crime
areas based on quantitative data, will enable the courts to play an essential
role in restoring Fourth Amendment protections to people living in low-income
minority neighborhoods.

   Tightening the nexus between observed suspicious behavior and suspected
criminal activity will help people living in these heavily policed neighborhoods
recapture their eroded Fourth Amendment rights. Using quantitative data to
narrowly define high-crime areas will require police officers to rely on more
than a "hunch" to prove that an area has a high propensity for crime. And in
turn, officers will be less likely to perform the arbitrary and intrusive
stop-and-frisks to which many of the young minority men in these neighborhoods
have grown accustomed.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawEqual ProtectionPovertyCriminal Law & ProcedureCriminal
OffensesWeaponsGeneral OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureSearch &
SeizureWarrantless SearchesStop & FriskReasonable Suspicion

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Please note that this is a hypothetical situation intended to illustrate
how predictive policing is or may be used in the future by some police
departments. The Chicago Police Department currently employs CompStat in its
operations and not the technology described above.





n2.  Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144 (1972) (creating the term "high-crime
area").





n3.  The Fourth Amendment guarantees "the right of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures ... ." U.S. Const. amend. IV.





n4.  Leslie A. Gordon, Predictive Policing May Help Bag Burglars - but it May
Also be a Constitutional Problem, A.B.A. J. (Sept. 1, 2013),
http://www.abajournal.com/magazine/article/predictive_policing
_may_help_bag_burglars - but_it_may_also_be_a_constitutio/.





n5.  Beth Pearsall, Predictive Policing: The Future of Law Enforcement?, 266
Nat'l Inst. Just. J. (June 2010),
http://www.nij.gov/journals/266/Pages/predictive.aspx (In the case of predictive
policing software, an algorithm is a complex mathematical formula "taking data
from disparate sources, analyzing them and then using results to anticipate,
prevent and respond more effectively to future crime.").





n6.  For example, the Santa Cruz Police Department uses PredPol software to
forecast crime using a complex algorithm that takes information about past
crimes and makes projections on a daily basis about which locations and windows
of time have a heightened risk for crime. See Erica Goode, Sending the Police
before There's a Crime, N.Y. Times, Aug. 15, 2011,
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n7.  Walter L. Perry et al., Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime Forecasting
in Law Enforcement Operations 1-2 (2013).





n8.  See Gordon, supra note 4 (quoting George Mason University Professor,
Cynthia Lum, who says that crime is predictable - "it's most likely to occur
tomorrow where it occurred yesterday. We know that about offenders too: People
who commit crimes are likely to commit them again.").





n9.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 2.





n10.  Id.; Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Big Data Policing in the Big Apple,
Huffington Post, July 15, 2014,
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/andrew-guthrie-ferguson/big-data-policing-in-the_b
_5588009.html [hereinafter Ferguson, Big Data] (explaining "certain crimes -
burglary, car theft, and theft from automobiles - are rather dependent on place
and opportunity.").





n11.  See Nate Berg, Predicting Crime, LAPD-style: Cutting Edge Data-Driven
Analysis Directs Los Angeles Patrol Officers to Likely Future Crime Scenes - but
Critics Worry that Decision-Making by Machine will Bring "tyranny of the
algorithm', The Guardian, June 25, 2014,
http://www.theguardian.com/cities/2014/jun/25/predicting-crime-lapd-los-angeles
-police-data-analysis-algorithm-minority-report.





n12.  See Perry et al., supra note 7, at 2.





n13.  Gordon, supra note 4 (explaining that departments use data outputs to
allocate personnel, reduce environmental vulnerabilities in neighborhoods,
identify future crime hotspots, and generally reduce crime and recidivism).





n14.  Please note that the author uses the terms "stop and frisk" and "Terry
Stop" interchangeably throughout this Note. A "Terry stop" is a general
exception to the rule that a police officer must have probable cause to search a
suspect. Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 499 (1983). A lawful Terry stop permits
a police officer to perform a brief seizure and partial search of a criminal
suspect, when the totality of the circumstances leads the officer to believe
that criminal activity may be afoot. Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30 (1968). The
partial search, or "frisk authority applies only when a concern about violence
exists." Fabio Arcila Jr., Nuance, Technology, and the Fourth Amendment: A
Response to Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion, 63 Emory L.J. 87, 89
(2014), available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=2464257 (citation omitted).





n15.  See Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion,
62 Emory L.J. 259, 262 (2012).





n16.  See id. at 312.





n17.  528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000).





n18.  See id.





n19.  See Hannah Rose Wisniewski, It's Time to Define High-Crime: Using
Statistics in Court to Support an Officer's Subjective "High-Crime Area"
Designation, 38 New Eng. J. on Crim. & Civ. Confinement 101, 106 (2012).





n20.  See id.





n21.  See Andrew Guthrie Ferguson & Damien Bernache, The "High-Crime Area"
Question: Requiring Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth Amendment
Reasonable Suspicion Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1605, 1607-08 (2008).





n22.  See id. at 1607-08 (providing examples of the many incantations of
high-crime area definitions and the array of evidence offered in various courts
to support these definitions); Lenese C. Herbert, Can't You See What I'm Saying?
Making Expressive Conduct a Crime in High-Crime Areas, 9 Geo. J. on Pov. L. &
Pol'y 135, 136-36 (2002) (explaining that in her experience as an Assistant
United States Attorney she would question police officers about their high-crime
area characterizations before trial, and how judges never asked for data to
support these assertions in court).





n23.  David A. Harris, Factors for Reasonable Suspicion: When Black and Poor
Means Stopped and Frisked, 69 Ind. L.J. 659, 677-78 (1994); see also David
Seawall, Wardlow's Case: A Call to Broaden The Perspective of American Criminal
Law, 78 Denv. U. L. Rev. 1119, 1131 (2001) (stating "due to the politics of past
and present racism, minority members are often forced to live in
poverty-stricken, crime-riddled communities, and this segregation continues
despite race-neutral policies.").





n24.  Suspect Fits Description: Responses to Racial Profiling in New York City:
A Panel Discussion with Darius Charney, Jesus Gonzalez, David Kennedy, Noel
Leader, and Robert Perry, 14 CUNY L. Rev. 57, 63-64 (2010) (stating "I have not
been any place where there is a lot of street action of this kind, where a lot
of it was not transparently, inherently, flagrantly illegal ... . Because of all
of that, it undercuts the legitimacy, especially of the police in these
communities and the alternative to having a legitimate law enforcement presence
in the community is community self-help. And that is part of the reason that in
these communities we are seeing the growth of a "stop snitching" and vendetta
culture, because people feel that they have no recourse to law and order to deal
with their personal and social problems"); see Seawall, supra note 23, at 1131
(explaining that the "high-crime area designation as a basis for increased legal
justification of police, and the diminished expectations of privacy for
residents, only perpetuate this distrust and the politics of identification.").





n25.  See generally Michelle Alexander, The New Jim Crow (2012) (arguing that
the War on Drugs has led to heavy policing in low-income and minority
neighborhoods and ushered in an era of mass incarceration and structural racism
in our criminal justice system).





n26.  See Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Crime Mapping and the Fourth Amendment:
Redrawing "High-Crime Areas", 63 Hastings L.J. 179, 209, 214-15 (2011)
[hereinafter Ferguson, Crime Mapping].





n27.  See id.





n28.  Tina Rosenberg, Armed With Data, Fighting More Than Crime, N.Y. Times, May
2, 2012,
http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/02/armed-with-data-fighting-more-th
an-crime/ ("The ideas in CompStat were first developed by Jack Maple, when he
was a lieutenant in the New York City Transit Police, as a way to track subway
crime and more intelligently deploy transit cops. In 1994, when William Bratton,
the chief of the transit police, became chief of the New York City Police
Department he brought Maple with him as deputy. They then applied CompStat
principles throughout the city's entire crime fighting operation.").





n29.  See id.





n30.  See id.





n31.  Id. (noting that before the implementation of CompStat, reports on crimes
and arrests were turned in every few months).





n32.  Id.





n33.  See id. (noting that a recent survey by the Police Executive Research
Forum "found that 79 percent of medium to large police departments surveyed use
some form of the CompStat model.").





n34.  Id.





n35.  See Perry et al., supra note 7, at 4-5.





n36.  See Ferguson, supra note 15, at 269-70.





n37.  Id. (citations omitted).





n38.  Goode, supra note 6.





n39.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 272 (stating "it is now generally acknowledged
that crime does not randomly disperse across a geographic area").





n40.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 2-3.





n41.  Joel Rubin, Stopping Crime Before it Starts, L.A. Times, Aug. 21, 2010,
http://articles.latimes.com/2010/aug/21/local/la-me-predictcrime-20100427-1
(stating "a would-be criminal must find a target that is sufficiently vulnerable
to attack and that offers an appealing payout. An empty house with no alarm on a
poorly lighted street, for example, has a much higher chance of being
burglarized than one with a barking dog on a busy block.").





n42.  Berg, supra note 11.





n43.  Id. PredPol is a popular predictive policing program developed by a
private company and is being used by law enforcement agencies all over the
world. See generally SacBee Online - Predpol Results in "Dramatic Crime
Reduction", Predpol, Oct. 16, 2013,
http://www.predpol.com/sacbee-online-predpol-results-in-dramatic-crime-reduction
/.





n44.  Gordon, supra note 4.





n45.  Berg, supra note 11.





n46.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 265 n.31.





n47.  See generally Perry et al., supra note 7 (discussing the various
data-mining techniques underlying new crime forecasting software).





n48.  Douglas Belkin, Chicago Hunts for Answers to Gang Killings: Police Build
Facebook-Like Database to Prevent Swift Cycles of Retaliation, Wall St. J., July
12, 2012,
http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052702303644004577520863051001848
(explaining that Chicago implemented a program tracking the social connections
of many of the city's gangs to try to keep them apart in the critical hours
after an attack); Can Software that Predicts Crime Pass Constitutional Muster?,
NPR.org (July 26, 2013),
http://www.npr.org/templates/transcript/transcript.php?storyId=205835674
(discussing how Seattle has expanded its use of its predictive policing program,
PredPol, to predict gun violence in the city); see also Gordon, supra note 4.





n49.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 8 (describing how these technologies are
evolving to include capabilities such as identifying future offenders, creating
offender profiles to match likely offenders with future crimes, and identifying
potential crime victims); Berg, supra note 11 (describing how various law
enforcement agencies across the United States are using PredPol as part of their
policing strategies).





n50.  G.O. Mohler et al., Self-Exciting Point Process Modeling of Crime, 106 J.
Am. Stat. Ass'n, 100, 100 (2011), available at
http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/uasa20#.VCmY1fldUk0.





n51.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 277 n.103 ("Research demonstrates that prior
victimisation is a very good predictor of future risk and that when it occurs,
repeat victimisation tends to occur swiftly.").





n52.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 42; see also Ferguson, supra note 15, at
268.





n53.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 42. See also Ferguson, supra note 15, at
268 (describing the Santa Cruz Police Departments use of Mohler's software).





n54.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 42.





n55.  Id.





n56.  Berg, supra note 11.





n57.  See Ferguson, supra note 15, at 281.





n58.  See Perry et al., supra note 7, at 42 (detailing studies using near repeat
theory to predict burglaries).





n59.  Id. at 44.





n60.  Mohler et al., supra note 50, at 100 (citations omitted).





n61.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 51.





n62.  Id.





n63.  See id.





n64.  See id.





n65.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 281 (citing Leslie Kennedy et al., Risk
Clusters, Hot Spots, and Spatial Intelligence: Risk Terrain Modeling as a
Algorithm for Police Resource Allocation Strategies, 27 J. Quantitative
Criminology 339, 345-46 (2011)).





n66.  Id. at 282.





n67.  Id. (citations omitted).





n68.  Id. (citations omitted).





n69.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 53-55.





n70.  See Ferguson, Big Data, supra note 10.





n71.  See Arcila, supra note 14, at 90.





n72.  See Ferguson, Big Data, supra note 10; see also Berg, supra note 11
(writing that one expert worries that "there's too much submissive acceptance of
these technologies by the public, without consideration of exactly how this data
is collected and used.").





n73.  Quentin Hardy, Why Big Data is Not Truth, N.Y. Times, June 1, 2013,
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/01/why-big-data-is-not-truth/.





n74.  Id.





n75.  Id.





n76.  See Uniform Crime Reports, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/ucr (last visited Nov. 9, 2014).





n77.  A Word About UCR Data, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/word (last visited Nov. 9, 2014).





n78.  Id.





n79.  Id.





n80.  See id.





n81.  Hardy, supra note 75.





n82.  Somini Sengupta, In Hot Pursuit of Numbers to Ward Off Crime, N.Y. Times,
June 19, 2013,
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/in-hot-pursuit-of-numbers-to-ward-off-c
rime/.





n83.  Id.; see Berg, supra note 11 (quoting Jennifer Lynch, senior staff
attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who says that with these
technologies "what we forget is that the information that went in may have been
subject to bias ... may have been collected in certain communities more than
other communities. The problem is technology legitimizes somehow the problematic
policing that was the origination of the data to begin with.").





n84.  See Berg, supra note 11; Sengupta, supra note 82; see generally Alexander,
supra note 25 (discussing how the War on Drugs has contributed to heavy policing
of low-income and minority neighborhoods).





n85.  Perry et al., supra note 7, at 7.





n86.  See Margaret Raymond, Down on the Corner, Out in the Street: Considering
the Character of the Neighborhood in Evaluating Reasonable Suspicion, 60 Ohio
St. L.J. 99, 101-02 (1999).





n87.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 21-22, 27 (1968).





n88.  Berg, supra note 11.





n89.  Sengupta, supra note 82.





n90.  Id.





n91.  Berg, supra note 11.





n92.  See Arcila, supra note 14, at 90.





n93.  See Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123-24 (2000).





n94.  U.S. Const. amend. IV.





n95.  Delaware v. Prouse, 440 U.S. 648, 653-54 (1979) (citations omitted).





n96.  392 U.S. 1 (1968).





n97.  See generally id.





n98.  See generally 528 U.S. 119.





n99.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 30.





n100.  See Raymond, supra note 86, at 102.





n101.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 21-22.





n102.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 231 (1983) (citing Brinegar v. United
States, 338 U.S. 160, 176 (1949)).





n103.  See United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981) (stating "based
upon that whole picture the detaining officers must have a particularized and
objective basis for suspecting the particular person stopped of criminal
activity.").





n104.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 15 ("courts still retain their traditional
responsibility to guard against police conduct which is over-bearing or
harassing, or which trenches upon personal security without the objective
evidentiary justification which the Constitution requires.").





n105.  Raymond, supra note 86, at 101-02.





n106.  Terry 392 U.S. at 10, 17 (citing Warden v. Hayden, 387 U.S. 294, 310
(1967) (Fortas, J., concurring)).





n107.  Florida. v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 499 (1983).





n108.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 23.





n109.  Officer McFadden had reasonable suspicion to believe that Terry was armed
and dangerous and planning to rob a store because McFadden watched three men
(including Terry) "pace alternately along an identical route, pausing to stare
in the same store window roughly 24 times; where each completion of this route
is followed immediately by a conference between the two men on the corner ... "
Id.





n110.  When Chief Justice Warren wrote the Terry opinion, he was concerned about
potential abuses of the power; he tried to prevent abuses of the power to
stop-and-frisk by limiting the scope of the searches to an officer's fear of
imminent danger to himself if he does not stop-and-frisk a suspect. Id. at 10,
17-19. Later decisions expanded the scope of Terry. See United States v.
Hensley, 469 U.S. 221 (1985); Wayne R. LaFave et. al., Criminal Procedure 241
(5th ed. 2009).





n111.  See Hensley, 469 U.S. at 227-28; Wayne R. LaFave et. al., Criminal
Procedure 241 (5th ed. 2009).





n112.  Hensley, 469 U.S. at 227-28.





n113.  Interview with Professor Douglas Godfrey, Professor of Legal Research &
Writing, Chicago-Kent Coll. of Law, in Chi., Ill. (Oct. 1, 2013).





n114.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 10, 17.





n115.  Carol S. Steiker, Terry Unbound, 82 Miss. L.J. 329, 334 (2013).





n116.  See N.Y. Civil Liberties Union, Stop and Frisk: Report on 2011 Findings,
available at http://www.nyclu.org/files/stopandfrisk-factsheet.pdf (last visited
Nov. 9, 2014).





n117.  Id.





n118.  Id. (stating "nine out of 10 people stopped are totally innocent, meaning
they are neither arrested nor ticketed."); see also The Editorial Board, More
Disclosures About Stop-and-Frisk, N.Y. Times, Nov. 29, 2013,
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/30/opinion/more-disclosures-about-stop-and-frisk.
html?_r=0.





n119.  See generally 528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n120.  See id. at 124.





n121.  Id. (citing Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144, 147-48 (1972)).





n122.  See id.





n123.  See Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 26, at 214-15.





n124.  See id.





N125.  See Raymond, supra note 86, at 99-102, 115-24 (describing case law
showing that whether reasonable suspicion is found often hinges on whether the
ambiguous behavior occurred in a high-crime area).





n126.  See Ferguson, supra note 15, at 301-03 (describing the ambiguity involved
in Wardlow and the confusing results of creating an unclear standard for
individualized suspicion); Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 26, at 215
(describing how the NYPD conducted 52,000 stop-and-frisks in Brownsville,
Brooklyn an area with a population of 14,000 between 2006 and 2010); Raymond,
supra note 86, at 99-102, 115-24.





n127.  Id.





n128.  See Ferguson, supra note 15, at 301-03.





n129.  Id.





n130.  528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000) (citing Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 99 (1979))
("An individual's presence in an area of expected criminal activity, standing
alone, is not enough to support a reasonable, particularized suspicion that the
person is committing a crime").





n131.  See id. (giving more attention to Wardlow's unprovoked flight upon seeing
the police officers than his presence in a high-crime area).





n132.  Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 52 (1979) (establishing reasonable suspicion
requires more than a person's mere presence in a designated high-crime area).





n133.  Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 26, at 198.





n134.  See generally Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n135.  See Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 21, at 1605, 1607-08 (providing
examples of the array of definitions for the term "high-crime area" and evidence
offered to support these definitions in different courts); see also United
States v. Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 218-20 (3d Cir. 2004) (Smith, J., concurring)
(raising questions about how judges should evaluate the definition and evidence
put forth to establish a high-crime area).





n136.  See Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 26, at 203-06.





n137.  Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 21, at 1605 (citing State v. Biehl, No.
22054, 2004 WL 2806340, at 5 (Ohio Ct. App. Dec. 8, 2004).





n138.  Id. at 1608.





n139.  Id. at 1605.





n140.  See id. (citing United States v. Baskin, 401 F.3d 788, 791, 793 (7th Cir.
2005)).





n141.  See id. at 1605-07.





n142.  Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 26, at 182 (stating, "There is no
longer a statistical question about which areas in fact have higher levels of
crime. Maps can be created detailing the last twenty auto thefts in a given
neighborhood, the last three months of drug arrests within a city or the
locations of all the homicides committed in a given year.").





n143.  Id. at 198 (indicating that over 1,000 federal and state cases have used
the term "high-crime area" in the context of Fourth Amendment reasonable
suspicion without a consistent or sophisticated definition of the term).





n144.  401 F.3d 788, 793 (7th Cir. 2005).





n145.  Id.





n146.  See id.





n147.  See United States v. Montero-Carmargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir.
2000) (Kozinski, J., concurring).





n148.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 302 n.259 (citing David A. Harris, Factors
for Reasonable Suspicion: When Black and Poor Means Stopped and Frisked, 69 Ind.
L.J. 659, 677-78 (1994)); Lenese C. Herbert, Can't You See What I'm Saying?
Making Expressive Conduct a Crime in High-Crime Areas, 9 Geo. J. on Poverty L. &
Pol'y 135, 135-38 (2002); Sheri Lynn Johnson, Race and the Decision to Detain a
Suspect, 93 Yale L.J. 214, 255-56 (1983); Raymond, supra note 86, at 116-24; Amy
D. Ronner, Fleeing While Black: The Fourth Amendment Apartheid, 32 Colum. Hum.
Rts. L. Rev. 383, 384-85 (2001); Christopher Slobogin, The Poverty Exception to
the Fourth Amendment, 55 Fla. L. Rev. 391, 405 (2003); Mia Carpiniello, Note,
Striking a Sincere Balance: A Reasonable Black Person Standard for "Location
Plus Evasion" Terry Stops, 6 Mich. J. Race & L. 355, 358 (2001)).





n149.  208 F.3d at 1138.





n150.  See id.





n151.  Id. at 1143 (Kozinski, J., concurring).





n152.  Id.





n153.  Id.





n154.  Harris, supra note 23, at 677-78; Seawall, supra note 23, at 1131.





n155.  See Alexander, supra note 25, at 72-96.





n156.  See N.Y. Civil Liberties Union, supra note 116 (detailing the number of
stop-and-frisks performed by NYPD in recent years).





n157.  See generally 528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n158.  See generally Alexander, supra note 25.





n159.  Marla McDaniel et al., Urban Inst., Imprisonment and Disenfranchisement
of Disconnected Low-Income Men 1 (Aug. 2013), available at
http://www.urban.org/UploadedPDF/412986-Imprisonment-and-Disenfranchisement-of-D
isconnected-Low-Income-Men.pdf.





n160.  Human Rights Watch, A Nation Behind Bars: A Human Rights Solution 5
(2014), available at
http://www.hrw.org/sites/default/files/related_material/2014_US_Nation_Behind_Ba
rs_0.pdf (citation omitted).





n161.  Id.





n162.  Id. (citation omitted).





n163.  McDaniel et al., supra note 159 (noting that "the U.S. Department of
Justice is reviewing laws and agency enforcement policies that may have had a
disparate impact on African Americans and Hispanics, both in terms of
incarceration and the collateral damage to their families and communities.").





n164.  See generally Alexander, supra note 25.





n165.  Id. at 125 (describing how "the militarized nature of law enforcement in
ghetto communities has inspired rap artists and black youth to refer to the
police presence in black communities as "The Occupation.'").





n166.  Id. at 123. Alexander notes that recent studies suggest that white youth
are more likely to participate in illegal drug dealing than people of color. Id.
at 99 (citation omitted).





n167.  Id. at 125.





n168.  Id.





n169.  Id. at 124.





n170.  Id.





n171.  Id. at 124-25.





n172.  Id. at 125.





n173.  See id. at 136.





n174.  See id. at 94 (citation omitted) (noting that approximately 2.3 million
people were in prisons or jails as of 2008).





n175.  Id. at 144-77.





n176.  See id.





n177.  Id. at 95 (citing Loic Wacquant, The New "Peculiar Institution': On the
Prison as Surrogate Ghetto, 4 Theoretical Criminology 377, 384 (2000)).





n178.  See id. at 95-96.





n179.  Richard A. Posner, Reflections on Judging 78 (2013).





n180.  Id. at 54 (quoting Judge Hamilton).





n181.  See United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 953 (2012) (discussing
electronic signal transmissions and physical trespass); see Kyllo v. United
States, 533 U.S. 27, 33-34 (2001) (stating that the question presented to the
Court "is what limits there are upon this power of technology to shrink the
realm of guaranteed privacy"); see generally Dow Chemical Co. v. United States,
476 U.S. 227 (1986) (discussing the EPA's use of high-resolution aerial
photography).





n182.  533 U.S. at 29, 33-34.





n183.  Id. at 29-30.





n184.  Id. at 36.





n185.  See id. at 35-36.





n186.  See id. at 35-36, 40.





n187.  Id. at 38-39.





n188.  See id.





n189.  See generally 134 S. Ct. 2473 (2014).





n190.  Id. at 2480.





n191.  Id. at 2484 (stating, "These cases require us to decide how the search
incident to arrest doctrine applies to modern cell phones, which are now such a
pervasive and insistent part of daily life that the proverbial visitor from Mars
might conclude that they were an important feature of human anatomy.").





n192.  Id. (citation omitted).





n193.  Id. at 2491.





n194.  Id.





n195.  Id. at 2491-92 (citing Michigan v. Summers, 452 U.S. 692, 705 n.19 (1981)
(quoting Dunaway v. New York, 442 U.S. 200, 219-20 (1979))).





n196.  Posner, supra note 179, at 72.





n197.  See id. at 71-72, 78 (using members of the current Supreme Court as
examples, Judge Posner points to the fact that none of them have a graduate or
undergraduate degree in a technical field to illuminate this lack of technical
training).





n198.  Id. at 73.





n199.  See Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 26, at 203-06.





n200.  Table 74: 2012 Full-time Law Enforcement Employees, Fed. Bureau of
Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/crime-in-the-u.s/2012/crime-in-the-u.s.-201
2/tables/74tabledatadecoverviewpdfs/table_74_full_time_law_enforcement_employees
_by_population_group_percent_male_and_female_2012.xls (last visited Nov. 9,
2014) (noting that this statistic includes both sworn officers and civilian
employees).





n201.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 268-69.





n202.  See Wisniewski, supra note 20, at 105-06.





n203.  See Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 21, at 1608.





n204.  The author recognizes that Rule 702 of the Federal Rules of Evidence
(often referred to as the Daubert factors) plays a critical role in the
admissibility and reliability of technical evidence in the courtroom; however,
this discussion is beyond the purview of this note. This note assumes that these
predictive policing programs will use reliable methods to generate data and
establish high-crime areas, and these methods will be reliably applied.





n205.  See Reports and Publications, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/stats-services/publications (last visited Nov. 9, 2014).





n206.  See id. One example of the FBI's efforts to serve as a clearinghouse for
information was illustrated earlier: the efforts of the FBI to develop uniform
crime reporting across the United States. See Uniform Crime Reports, supra note
76.





n207.  Quick Facts, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/quick-facts (last visited Nov. 9, 2014).





n208.  Id.





n209.  The FBI may help police departments understand that past data may lose
its predictive value if an environmental vulnerability is remediated and changes
crime patterns in an area. For example, if street lights are added on a block
where a lot of cars are being stolen, and the police also arrest gang members
who were stealing the cars, then the predictive value of the data outputs from
the predictive policing software will diminish because these environmental
vulnerabilities have been addressed. See Ferguson, supra note 15, at 314.





n210.  See Partnerships and Outreach, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/partnerships_and_outreach/ (last visited Nov. 9,
2014) (listing FBI partnerships and describing its community outreach program).





n211.  See id.





n212.  The FBI Academy, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/training/national-academy/national-academy (last
visited Nov. 9, 2014) (describing the purpose of the National Academy and the
training it offers to local leaders in law enforcement).





n213.  Refer to Part I of this note for an in-depth discussion of this risk.





n214.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 316.





n215.  See id. at 316-17.





n216.  See Ferguson, Big Data, supra note 10 (noting concerns about manipulation
of crime data following an audit of the NYPD's crime statistics).





n217.  See Ferguson, supra note 15, at 319 (arguing for third party testing and
validation of algorithms in order to establish the legitimacy of this
technology).





n218.  See generally 959 F. Supp. 2d 540 (S.D.N.Y. 2013).





n219.  Joseph Goldstein, Court Blocks Stop-and-Frisk Changes for New York
Police, N.Y. Times, Oct. 31, 2013,
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/01/nyregion/court-blocks-stop-and-frisk-changes-f
or-new-york-police.html?emc=edit_na_20131031&nlid=48206195&_r=0 (explaining the
allegations that led to Judge Scheindlin's removal).





n220.  Benjamin Weiser & Joseph Goldstein, Mayor Says New York City Will Settle
Suits on Stop-and-Frisk Tactics, N.Y. Times, Jan. 30, 2014,
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/01/31/nyregion/de-blasio-stop-and-frisk.html.





n221.  Evidence suppression hearings are typically where courts must address
whether an officer had the requisite level of reasonable suspicion required to
perform the stop-and-frisk that yielded evidence to establish a criminal case.





n222.  The public's desire for government transparency is so strong in the
United States that President Obama issued a memorandum advising the Heads of
Executive Departments and Agencies to incorporate more transparency into
government processes. See Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and
Agencies, 74 Fed. Reg. 4685 (Jan. 26, 2009), available at
https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2009/01/26/E9-1777/transparency-and-ope
n-government#page-4685.





n223.  See id.





n224.  See Berg, supra note 11.





n225.  Id.





n226.  See generally 528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n227.  Ferguson, supra note 15, at 265.





n228.  392 U.S. 1, 5-6 (1968).





n229.  Id.





n230.  See id.





n231.  Alexander, supra note 25, at x-xi.


                               2 of 13 DOCUMENTS



                     www.law.upenn.edu/journals/lawreview/
            Copyright (c) 2015 University of Pennsylvania Law Review
                     University of Pennsylvania Law Review

                                 January, 2015

                     University of Pennsylvania Law Review

                             163 U. Pa. L. Rev. 327

LENGTH: 33054 words

ARTICLE: BIG DATA AND PREDICTIVE REASONABLE SUSPICION

NAME: Andrew Guthrie Ferguson+

BIO: + Associate Professor of Law, David A. Clarke School of Law, University of
the District of Columbia. With appreciation to Professors Jack Chin, Daniel
Filler, Orin Kerr, Richard Leo, Daniel Medwed, Jenny Roberts, Josephine Ross,
David Rudovsky, Laurent Sacharoff, Christopher Slobogin, and Joe Tulman for
their comments and suggestions. I would like to dedicate this Article to the
late Professor Andy Taslitz, who encouraged me to write it and who was an
inspiring and supportive friend to many scholars.

HIGHLIGHT: From a legal point of view there is nothing inherently unattainable
about a prediction of future criminal conduct. n1



Electronic databases form the nervous system of contemporary criminal justice
operations. In recent years, their breadth and influence have dramatically
expanded... . The risk of error stemming from these databases is not slim... .
Inaccuracies in expansive, interconnected collections of electronic information
raise grave concerns for individual liberty. n2


 TEXT:
 [*329]

   Introduction


   The Fourth Amendment requires "reasonable suspicion" to stop a suspect. n3 As
a general matter, police officers develop this suspicion based on information
they know or activities they observe. Suspicion is individualized to a
particular person at a particular place. n4 Most reasonable suspicion cases
involve police confronting unknown suspects engaged in observable suspicious
activities. n5 Essentially, the reasonable suspicion doctrine is based on "small
data" - discrete facts, limited information, and little knowledge about the
suspect. n6

   But what happens if this small data suspicion is replaced by "big data"
suspicion? n7 What if police can "know" personal information about the suspect
by searching vast networked information sources? The rise of big data
technologies offers a challenge to the traditional paradigm of Fourth Amendment
law. With little effort, officers can now identify most unknown  [*330]
suspects, not through their observations, but by accessing a web of information
containing extensive personal data about suspects. n8 New data sources,
including law enforcement databases, third-party records, and predictive
analytics, combined with biometric or facial recognition software, allow
officers access to information with just a few search queries. n9 At some point,
inferences from this personal data (independent of the observation) may become
sufficiently individualized and predictive to justify the seizure of a suspect.
The question this Article poses is whether a Fourth Amendment stop can be
predicated on the aggregation of specific and individualized, but otherwise
noncriminal, factors.

   For example, suppose police are investigating a series of robberies in a
particular neighborhood. Arrest photos from a computerized database are uploaded
in patrol cars. Facial recognition software scans people on the street. n10
Suddenly there is a match - police recognize a known robber in the targeted
neighborhood. The suspect's personal information scrolls across the patrol car's
computer screen - prior robbery arrests, prior robbery convictions, and a list
of criminal associates also involved in robberies. n11 The officer then searches
additional sources of third-party data, including the suspect's GPS location
information for the last six hours or license plate records which tie the
suspect to pawn shop trades close in time to prior robberies. n12 The police now
have particularized, individualized suspicion about a man who is not doing
anything overtly criminal. Or perhaps predictive software has already identified
the man as a potential reoffender for this particular type of crime. n13 Or
perhaps software has flagged the suspect's social media comments or other
Internet postings that suggest planned criminal or gang  [*331]  activity. n14
Can this aggregation of individualized information be sufficient to justify
interfering with a person's constitutional liberty?

   This Article traces the consequences of a shift from "small data" reasonable
suspicion, focused on specific, observable actions of unknown suspects, to a
"big data" reality of an interconnected, information rich world of known
suspects. With more specific information, police officers on the streets may
have a stronger predictive sense about the likelihood that they are observing
criminal activity. n15 This evolution, however, only hints at the promise of big
data policing. The next phase will use existing predictive analytics to target
suspects without any firsthand observation of criminal activity, relying instead
on the accumulation of various data points. n16 Unknown suspects will become
known to police because of the data left behind. n17 Software will use
pattern-matching techniques n18 to identify individuals by sorting through
information about millions of people contained in networked databases. This new
reality simultaneously undermines the protection that reasonable suspicion
provides against police stops and potentially transforms reasonable suspicion
into a means of justifying those same stops.

   This Article seeks to offer three contributions to the development of Fourth
Amendment theory. First, it demonstrates that reasonable suspicion - as a small
data doctrine - may become practically irrelevant in an era of big  [*332]  data
policing. Second, it examines the distortions of big data on police observation,
investigation, and prediction, concluding that big data information will impact
all major aspects of traditional policing. Third, it seeks to offer a solution
to potential problems using the insights and value of big data itself to
strengthen the existing reasonable suspicion standard.

   Part I of this Article examines the development of Fourth Amendment law on
reasonable suspicion. Much of this case law involves "unknown" suspects, such as
when a police officer sees an individual on the street but does not know his or
her identity. In these cases, reasonable suspicion necessarily derives from the
suspect's observable actions. Most Fourth Amendment cases involving
police-citizen encounters are of this "stranger" variety. n19 Thus, the
reasonable suspicion test, as it evolved, required the police officer to
articulate individualized, particularized suspicion to distinguish a stranger's
suspicious actions from non-suspicious actions. n20 The resulting doctrine,
created around actions, not individuals, makes sense within the context it arose
(as presumably most officers would not know all of the potential criminals in
their patrol areas). n21 The resulting reasonable suspicion test, however,
becomes significantly distorted when officers have access to more individualized
or predictive information about a suspect.

   Part II of this Article addresses the rise of "big data" in criminal law
enforcement. Law enforcement organizations are working to grow the scope,
sophistication, and detail of their databases. n22 Agencies and their officers
may now search national databases and gain instant access to the information.
n23 Indeed, "data" is the new watchword in many smart-policing districts. n24
[*333]  Crimes are recorded. n25 Criminals are cataloged. n26 Some jurisdictions
record data about every police-citizen encounter, making both the person and
justification for the stop (not necessarily even an arrest) instantly available
to any officer. n27 Some jurisdictions have compiled "bad guy lists" identifying
suspects in a neighborhood based on computer analysis of past actions and
arrests. n28 In addition, law enforcement agencies increasingly rely on
predictive algorithms to forecast individual recidivism and areas of likely
criminal activity. n29

   Just as law enforcement agencies now collect and electronically analyze more
personal data, so do private, third-party organizations. n30 These third-party
entities are a familiar part of our daily lives. "Smartphones" record  [*334]
where we go. n31 Credit card companies record what we buy, and banks chronicle
what we spend. n32 "OnStar" systems in cars catalog where and how fast we drive.
n33 Phone records reflect our contacts and communications. n34 Internet searches
reveal what we read and expose our interests. n35 Social media sites, such as
Twitter and Facebook, even disclose what we think. n36 Currently, law
enforcement officers may access many of these records without violating the
Fourth Amendment, under the theory that there is no reasonable expectation of
privacy in information knowingly revealed to third parties. n37 While certain
statutory protections exist, most statutes include law enforcement exceptions,
n38 and in any case, these private, commercial data aggregators have turned
personal data into a commodity, available for purchase and analysis to anyone
willing to pay. n39

    [*335]  The rise of "big data" means that this information is potentially
available for use by law enforcement. In the same way that a drug store can
predict that you will need a coupon this month because you bought a similar
product last month, n40 the police will be able to anticipate that you will be
selling drugs this week because you purchased an unusual number of mini-plastic
bags last week. n41 Neither prediction is necessarily accurate, but both are
based on individualized and particularized data that makes the prediction more
likely.

   Part III analyzes the intersection of big data and the current Fourth
Amendment framework. The wrinkle of big data is that now officers are no longer
dealing with "strangers." Even people unknown to officers can be identified and,
with a few quick searches, revealed as a person with recognizable
characteristics or about whom certain predictions can be made. n42 If officers
view those individualized and particularized identifying characteristics - such
as prior convictions, gang associations, and GPS coordinates near the scene of
the crime - as suspicious, then otherwise innocent actions might create a
predictive composite that satisfies the reasonable suspicion standard. In
essence, reasonable suspicion will focus more on an individual's predictive
likelihood of involvement in criminal activity than on an individual's actions.

   Part III then looks at Fourth Amendment reasonable suspicion through three
different lenses: (1) situations involving officers observing an ongoing crime,
(2) situations involving officers investigating a past crime, and (3) situations
involving officers predicting a future crime. Big data affects the analysis in
each application, distorting the reasonable suspicion standard. Knowing who the
suspect is and having more information (even innocent information) will allow
officers to meet the reasonable suspicion threshold more easily because the
information will be sufficiently individualized and particularized.

    [*336]  Part IV assesses this new technological reality. Can the current
reasonable suspicion doctrine adapt? Should it? What are the possible benefits
or dangers of big data reasonable suspicion? Using big data may help reduce the
negative consequences of traditional policing techniques, but at the same time
may create a whole new set of concerns. This section evaluates the tradeoffs of
big data as applied to the Fourth Amendment.

   Part V offers a few solutions to the problem presented by the big data
distortions of Fourth Amendment doctrine. This Article suggests that the nature
of big data itself might provide a means of strengthening the reasonable
suspicion standard. If big data resources are used to tip the scales of
reasonable suspicion in favor of law enforcement, then courts should require a
higher level of detail and correlation using the insights and capabilities of
big data. This requirement would involve precise statistical analysis,
geospatial analysis, temporal analysis, and link analysis of the data. Big data
can provide information about a person on a generalized or granular scale, and
the latter should be required. The power of big data allows investigators to go
deep into the data and make sure that the information is as tightly correlated
as possible. In this way, a big data-infused reasonable suspicion standard will
do what the reasonable suspicion requirement was always supposed to do -
distinguish the criminal from the noncriminal in a manner that balances the need
for effective law enforcement with a measure of personal liberty.

   I. Reasonable Suspicion: A Small Data Doctrine

 The Fourth Amendment serves as a constitutional barrier, protecting individuals
from unreasonable police intrusion. n43 On the street, the police may not
constitutionally stop, seize, or search individuals without the requisite legal
justification. n44 To seize a person temporarily, a police officer  [*337]  must
have "reasonable suspicion" that the individual is committing, is about to
commit, or has committed a crime. n45

   The "reasonable suspicion" standard first arose in Terry v. Ohio, when the
Supreme Court created a new threshold for Fourth Amendment suspicion, lower than
probable cause, to justify a brief detention. n46 In Terry, Detective Martin
McFadden observed three unknown men walking back and forth in front of a
downtown store. n47 McFadden, an experienced police officer, while not knowing
the men involved, believed their actions were consistent with the actions of
individuals seeking to rob a store. n48 Based on this suspicion, McFadden
stopped the individuals. n49 In the process of frisking them, McFadden recovered
unlawful firearms. n50 Possession of these firearms served as the basis for the
arrest, conviction, and later appeal of the constitutionality of the initial
stop-and-frisk. n51 In finding the stop permissible, the Court established a new
Fourth Amendment standard for investigatory stops, requiring that police "be
able to point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with
rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant the intrusion." n52

   Terry mirrors a common factual situation that recurs millions of times a year
across the country. Officers on the street observe a particular suspect or group
of suspects. Because police officers do not know all of the suspects in a
jurisdiction personally, the officers must focus on the suspect's actions and on
the inferences that can be drawn from those actions. The amount of information
an officer knows about the suspect is necessarily limited. Like Detective
McFadden in Terry, officers are usually limited to evaluating observed actions
through intuition. This practice epitomizes small data  [*338]  policing -
suspicion generated by information discrete in amount, fixed in time, and
isolated in context. Thus, the predictive judgments made about the suspect are
similarly limited and disconnected from other data sources.

   This Part discusses how reasonable suspicion has developed as a small data
doctrine. The language the Supreme Court used to define reasonable suspicion,
the standard's application in a variety of contexts, and the law's assumption of
unknown suspects and direct observations, all speak to the doctrine's utility in
certain situations. In general, the archetypical reasonable suspicion setting
involves police officers reacting to a quickly unfolding criminal situation,
with unknown suspects and without the time or resources to find more
information. The Fourth Amendment calculus, though, changes when officers have
access to personal data about the suspects. Specifically, law enforcement
officers can more easily satisfy the reasonable suspicion standard when a third
party provides some minimal information about an otherwise unknown suspect.

   Already, the reasonable suspicion standard provides little protection in
situations involving suspects previously known to police. This reality
illustrates one of the many shortcomings of a small data doctrine. Specific and
particularized data about a suspect, even if not specific and particularized
about a crime, tends (in practice) to reduce the protection of the reasonable
suspicion standard. Because the police can obtain information about a suspect
more easily in a world of big data, this doctrinal weakness points to a problem
in the protective scope of current Fourth Amendment law.

   A. The Reasonable Suspicion Standard

 Despite the common application of the reasonable suspicion language in tens of
thousands of federal and state court cases, the contours of the standard remain
ill-defined. n53 Cases from Terry to the present day emphasize that suspicion
must be based on "specific and articulable facts." n54 Those facts must be
"objective." n55 Suspicion must be particularized. n56 It must  [*339]  relate
to criminal activity, not just to the criminal. n57 Officers must have
reasonable suspicion before the stop occurs; retroactive justification is not
sufficient. n58 The suspicion must relate to current criminal activity, n59 with
some latitude for post-crime investigative actions n60 and pre-crime
intervention. n61

   Courts evaluate these suspicious facts under the "totality of circumstances"
test, which means that all relevant factors should be considered. n62 The
content and the quality of the information are both relevant considerations, n63
but courts have not settled on a required quantum of proof. n64  [*340]
Innocent factors, characteristics about an area, and specialized law enforcement
training are all factors that shape the totality of the circumstances. n65

   The result has been a standard which retains the virtue of flexibility and
the vice of malleability. As the Supreme Court has explained, reasonable
suspicion involves "commonsense, nontechnical conceptions that deal with "the
factual and practical considerations of everyday life on which reasonable and
prudent men, not legal technicians, act.'" n66 Scholars have been less
charitable, critiquing the standard as being at best meaningless and at worst
discriminatory. n67 At a minimum, the reasonable suspicion standard requires
police to articulate why an individual was stopped, which may reduce overly
arbitrary or animus-based stops.

   The standard, while applicable in many situations, makes the most sense for
unknown suspect cases. The requirement of specific, particularized, objective
facts seeks to distinguish by their observable actions those individuals who
have done nothing wrong from those who have done something wrong. Detective
McFadden stopped Mr. Terry not because he recognized Mr. Terry as a known robber
or because there was a report of a robbery, but because of the observed actions
that drew his suspicions at that particular time. Personal factors may be
relevant, but usually relate to the suspect's observable actions. n68

[*341]

   B. Reasonable Suspicion in Application

 This Section traces how an officer's knowledge about a suspect influences the
reasonable suspicion analysis. As discussed below, the more data known or
discovered about a particular suspect, the easier it is to justify a stop based
on reasonable suspicion. This result is not necessarily negative or surprising,
as more information connecting a suspect to a crime increases the likelihood
that the suspect was involved. It does, however, show how the aggregation of
information - even innocent information - can shift the balance within a fluid
legal standard.

   1. Unknown Suspect Cases

 Perhaps not surprisingly, many Fourth Amendment reasonable suspicion cases have
followed the Terry small data model. n69 Such cases involve officers observing
unknown suspects n70 engaged in what officers believe to be suspicious activity.
These encounters regularly occur on the street n71 and as part of traffic stops
that lead to the seizure of cars' occupants. n72 In both types of encounters,
police stop the individual based on speculations about the criminal nature of
the actions involved - independent of the person - because the actor's identity
is unknown. In determining reasonable suspicion,  [*342]  a court will evaluate
whether the officer's observations were objectively reasonable to warrant the
stop.

   Sibron v. New York is a useful example of the application of the reasonable
suspicion standard with respect to unknown suspects. n73 In Sibron, a case
decided the same day as Terry v. Ohio, an officer observed an unknown suspect in
a series of meetings with known narcotics addicts for approximately eight hours.
n74 The police officer did not know Sibron personally and could not overhear any
of the conversations. n75 Yet, after observing Sibron communicate with nine to
eleven known addicts over the course of the day, the officer concluded that he
had observed a series of drug transactions. The officer then approached Sibron
and searched his pockets, recovering heroin. n76 The Supreme Court held that
Sibron's activity did not create reasonable suspicion. n77 The officer did not
see any drug transactions, did not know the subject of the conversations, and
accordingly did not have the requisite suspicion to justify the search under the
Fourth Amendment. n78 While  [*343]  Sibron might be decided differently today,
the Court, it should be noted here, determined that the officer lacked
reasonable suspicion because the officer had no information about Sibron that
gave rise to the inference of criminal activity. Merely associating with addicts
was not a crime.

   In both Terry and Sibron, officers did not know the suspect but instead
inferred from the unknown suspect's actions that criminal activity was afoot.
n79 In both cases, officers based their predictive judgments on limited data
points, which were disconnected from larger information sources about the
suspect. While the Supreme Court came to different conclusions in Terry and
Sibron about whether the police had reasonable suspicion, it reached both
outcomes based solely on the facts observed by the officers. This reality has
been repeated in hundreds of cases since then.

   2. Some Information on the Suspect

 A slight wrinkle to the classic unknown suspect case involves situations in
which some minimal information is provided about an otherwise unknown suspect.
Informant tips, police tips, or further police investigation can alter the
reasonable suspicion analysis. n80 That is, the likelihood that a court will
find reasonable suspicion increases proportionally to the amount of personal
data the police officer has about the suspect.

   In Florida v. J.L., an anonymous caller "reported to the Miami-Dade Police
that a young black male standing at a particular bus stop and wearing a plaid
shirt was carrying a gun." n81 Police responded and searched a young black male,
J.L., wearing a plaid shirt. Police found a gun on J.L. and arrested him. n82 In
determining whether this anonymous tip was sufficient to justify the stop, the
Court held that such a bare tip, without either identifying information about
the suspect or predictive details corroborated by observation, was insufficient
for reasonable suspicion. n83 There was no identifying or  [*344]  predictive
information involved. The only data point was an anonymous accusation without
context or verifiability.

   In Alabama v. White, by contrast, the Supreme Court found that a tip
including the suspect's name, location, and predicted route of travel was
sufficient to establish reasonable suspicion. n84 In White, the anonymous
tipster claimed that the suspect "would be leaving 235-C Lynwood Terrace
Apartments at a particular time in a brown Plymouth station wagon with the right
taillight lens broken, that she would be going to Dobey's Motel, and that she
would be in possession of about an ounce of cocaine inside a brown attache
case." n85 The police followed the suspect as she left the motel in a Plymouth
station wagon, stopped her, and requested to search her car. n86 She consented,
and police recovered marijuana. n87 The Court held that in this situation, the
stop was justified by reasonable suspicion. n88

   The differences between White and J.L. are slight but revealing. A more
descriptive account of the suspect and corroborated predictive detail changed an
insufficient anonymous tip into constitutionally sufficient reasonable
suspicion. n89 Note, however, that many of the same concerns that caused the
Court to find no reasonable suspicion in J.L. were still present in White. An
anonymous tip revealing a single and obvious pattern of movement does not
provide much proof of "insider" knowledge. Most individuals drive a particular
type of car and follow a predictable routine in parts of daily life (e.g.,
driving to work, to daycare, to the gym, to the local coffee shop). Yet, the
Court still found the additional individualized information about the suspect
sufficient for reasonable suspicion. n90

   The Supreme Court's first transition to a "medium data" case occurred in
Ornelas v. United States. n91 In Ornelas, officers developed reasonable
suspicion by proactively searching for data to support their hunch. n92 The
[*345]  case involved a Milwaukee detective who observed a suspicious car parked
at a local motel. n93 The car was purportedly "suspicious" because it was a make
and model frequently used by drug dealers - a 1981 two-door Oldsmobile. n94 Not
having any information about the owner of the Oldsmobile, the detective radioed
his dispatcher and found the car was registered under Ornelas's name. n95 A
further inquiry with the local office of the Drug Enforcement Administration
revealed that Ornelas's name appeared in a federal database of known and
suspected drug traffickers (the Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Information System
(NADDIS)). n96 With this additional information, which would otherwise have been
unknown, the detective stopped Ornelas (and another man) when they exited the
motel and entered the car. The underlying constitutional issue in the case was
whether the information connecting the car, the name, and the criminal database
was sufficient to create reasonable suspicion. n97 While the Supreme Court
deferred answering the Fourth Amendment question, focusing instead on the
appropriate standard of appellate review, the trial court both initially and on
remand found that the information together was sufficient cause for reasonable
suspicion. n98 Note, though, that Ornelas's actions were not suspicious at all.
He parked overnight at a motel and then exited the motel and got into his car.
What created the suspicion was independent data about Ornelas himself. The
detective, by searching for more information about  [*346]  Ornelas, discovered
personal data - particularized and individualized facts - to support his
suspicion. n99

   This development of reasonable suspicion resulting more from aggregated
information about a suspect, and less from the actions of the suspect, occurs
with some regularity in the case law. n100 In essence, courts reason that the
"tip" or database hit provides information that shifts the balance toward
reasonable suspicion. This is true even if the observable, innocent actions on
the street remain the same.

   3. Known Suspects

 The third situation involves "known suspects" stopped by police because of
their identity and not necessarily because of any observed activities. The
Supreme Court has not directly ruled on the issue, but United States v. Hensley
provides an interesting example of a stop based solely on identity. n101

   Hensley involved a stop based on a "wanted flyer" for a suspect in an armed
robbery. n102 The Police Department in St. Bernard, Ohio, had issued a flyer
identifying Mr. Hensley as a suspect and sent it to surrounding jurisdictions.
n103 The flyer did not indicate that the police had a warrant for Mr. Hensley's
arrest. n104 The Covington Police Department, located in neighboring Kentucky,
received the flyer, and its officers were on the lookout for Mr. Hensley. n105
Based on the wanted flyer, Covington Police  [*347]  officers stopped Mr.
Hensley and eventually recovered a handgun. n106 The Supreme Court had to decide
whether this wanted poster - identifying Mr. Hensley specifically - created
reasonable suspicion to stop Hensley.

   In its discussion, the Court noted that "if police have a reasonable
suspicion, grounded in specific and articulable facts, that a person they
encounter was involved in or is wanted in connection with a completed felony,
then a Terry stop may be made to investigate that suspicion." n107 The principle
applies even if another jurisdiction's police officers generated that reasonable
suspicion. Thus, the Covington police permissibly relied on the St. Bernard's
Police Department's determination of reasonable suspicion.

   Hensley shows that a stop can be based simply on identifying information
about a suspect that is provided to police. In Hensley, the arresting officers
did not have an arrest warrant or any predictive detail about Hensley's future
actions, and they did not corroborate any of the allegations of criminal
activity. The only data point for suspicion was Hensley's identity. Yet the
Court nonetheless held that if information about an identified suspect rises to
the level of reasonable suspicion, a stop is justified. n108 Because police
collect a significant amount of information about suspects and create regular
"target lists" of potential suspects, this type of stop, based merely on
identity, raises serious questions.

   Hensley also substantially broadened the application of the reasonable
suspicion standard from preventing or apprehending ongoing criminal activity to
investigating it after the fact. After Hensley, reasonable suspicion was no
longer limited to ongoing criminal action, but could be used to justify stops to
investigate completed crimes.

   Other courts have been even more explicit that prior knowledge of the suspect
can factor into reasonable suspicion. The Seventh Circuit stated that "knowledge
of gang association and recent relevant criminal conduct, while of doubtful
evidentiary value in view of the strictures against proving guilt by  [*348]
association or by a predisposition based on past criminal acts, is a permissible
component of the articulable suspicion required for a Terry stop." n109 Courts
in Massachusetts, n110 Minnesota, n111 and Hawaii, n112 among others, n113
recognize that knowledge of a defendant's criminal history can factor into the
reasonable suspicion analysis. As one Massachusetts court reasoned,



   the officers were also entitled to consider their personal knowledge of the
defendant, including the fact that he had a pending court case involving charges
of firearm possession and armed assault with intent to murder. In several cases,
this court has allowed police knowledge of a person's arrest record or
unspecified "criminal record" to be considered in a reasonable suspicion
evaluation. n114

  [*349]  Of course, courts draw a line between using prior knowledge about a
suspect to justify a stop and using prior knowledge as one factor in the
totality of the circumstances. n115 Prior knowledge of past criminal activity
alone is not enough to stop an individual. n116 As one court stated,



   knowledge of a person's prior criminal involvement (to say nothing of a mere
arrest) is alone insufficient to give rise to the requisite reasonable
suspicion... .



 If the law were otherwise, any person with any sort of criminal record - or
even worse, a person with arrests but no convictions - could be subjected to a
Terry-type investigative stop by a law enforcement officer at any time without
the need for any other justification at all. Any such rule would clearly run
counter to the requirement of a reasonable suspicion, and of the need that such
stops be justified in light of a balancing of the competing interests at stake.
n117

 Thus, knowledge about the suspect cannot alone justify a stop; the officer's
knowledge must be tied to a suspected criminal activity, past or present. Data
regarding a suspect's criminal history, however, can influence the officer and
be included in the totality of the circumstances analysis for reasonable
suspicion.

   C. Concluding Thoughts

 Fourth Amendment case law suggests that personal information about a suspect
influences the reasonable suspicion analysis - even if the suspect's actions
remain the same. When data about the suspect corroborates suspicion from
observation, the information helps the officer justify his or her suspicion. In
simple terms, personal data provide the individualized, objective facts that
officers need to articulate their suspicion.

   While it makes intuitive sense that information about a suspect in connection
with a crime can help provide reasons for the officer's suspicion,  [*350]
there are real concerns associated with this increased access to personal
information. First, the personal information can be overbroad. In Ornelas, for
example, the officer's suspicion that a particular car was connected with a
known drug dealer did not alone create a reasonable suspicion that the
individual possessed drugs at the time. n118 The actions of the suspect,
including staying overnight at a motel, also did not necessarily suggest drug
distribution. To justify the stop, the police officer considered additional data
points in his calculus, but the data themselves did not meaningfully relate to
the likelihood of criminal activity at the particular time. Second, the personal
information can be wrong. In White, for example, the tipster was wrong about
some facts, including the type of narcotics police would recover from the
suspect. n119 Third, the personal information can be unreliable. After Hensley,
police-generated watchlists can be used to justify stops of individuals. As
these lists are shared nationally, there is no guarantee of accuracy or any
mechanism to correct mistakes. n120 Potential clerical errors, errors in
judgment, and a lack of judicial oversight all create red flags for this
broadening of factors included in the reasonable suspicion analysis. n121

   These concerns animate the discussion about how new data sources will affect
the reasonable suspicion doctrine. Information may shape reasonable suspicion,
but, as developed in the next Part, the available data can also overwhelm
officers and interfere with the determination of who should be stopped for
suspected criminal activity.

   II. The Rise of Big Data Policing

 Big data - both as a catchphrase and a reality - is transforming the world.
n122 This Part outlines the growth of big data and its potential impact  [*351]
on law enforcement practices. The big data revolution is just beginning, but it
has already begun influencing how police identify and investigate criminal
activity.

   Big data will affect police officers on the streets in two primary ways.
First, in conjunction with facial recognition or other biometric identification
technologies, n123 unknown suspects can be known - not simply identified by
name, but revealed through a web of facts involving criminal records, personal
history, and past location data. n124 Vast troves of networked data can provide
individualized and particularized facts from which to form suspicion. n125
Second, patterns emerging from the data will allow individuals to be identified
predictively as suspects because their past actions generate suspicion about
future criminal involvement. n126 Law enforcement already uses predictive
policing software to predict areas of crime, but big data will soon predict
actions, if not individuals. n127 The data will reveal predictive profiles to
identify those believed to warrant further investigation by police. n128 In both
cases, the growth of "big data" has the potential to change the reasonable
suspicion calculus because more personal or predictive information about a
suspect will make it easier for police to justify stopping a suspect.

[*352]

   A. Big Data: An Introduction

 Big data refers to the accumulation and analysis of unusually large datasets.
n129 It provides a shorthand term for data collection in a variety of industries
and settings. n130 As described in the next few sections, this collection
involves a network of sources, relying heavily on a host of consumer, social
media, and law enforcement datasets, as well as more established surveillance
and tracking technologies. n131

   In their book on big data, Viktor Mayer-Schonberger and Kenneth Cukier define
big data in two ways. First, big data is "the ability of society to harness
information in novel ways to produce useful insights or goods and services of
significant value." n132 Second, they write that, "big data refers to things one
can do at a large scale that cannot be done at a smaller one, to extract new
insights or create new forms of value, in ways that change markets,
organizations, the relationships between citizens and governments, and more."
n133 Jules Berman describes big data using "the three V's." n134 First, you must
have "volume - large amounts of data." n135 Second, you must have "variety - the
data comes in different forms, including traditional databases, images,
documents, and complex records." n136 Third, you must have "velocity - the
content of the data is constantly changing, through  [*353]  the absorption of
complementary data collections, through the introduction of previously archived
data or legacy collections, and from streamed data arriving from multiple
sources." n137

   To understand the scope of the growth of big data, the next few sections will
outline the sources, volume, and promise of big data technologies with a focus
on those areas most useful for law enforcement.

   B. The Growth of Data Collection

 In many ways, the building blocks of big data are not new at all; n138 data
collection has been increasing for the last few decades. n139 The growth in the
volume of data collected, the ability to connect previously discrete data
networks, and the analytical capabilities made possible by faster computer
processors and more data storage capacity, however, are new developments. n140
These issues will be addressed in turn.

[*354]

   1. Volume of Data

 The volume of collected data is growing exponentially. "The data surge just
keeps rising, doubling in volume every two years. Just two days of the current
global data production, from all sources - five quintillion bytes (a letter of
text equals one byte) - is about equal to the amount of information created by
all the world's conversations, ever ... ." n141 This amount of information is
hard to comprehend:



   In 2013 the amount of stored information in the world [was] estimated to be
around 1,200 exabytes, of which less than 2 percent is non-digital.



 There is no good way to think about what this size of data means. If it were
all printed in books, they would cover the entire surface of the United States
some 52 layers thick. If it were placed on CD-ROMs and stacked up, they would
stretch to the moon in five separate piles... .



 Things really are speeding up. The amount of stored information grows four
times faster than the world economy, while the processing power of computers
grows nine times faster. n142

 Although law enforcement may not use all of this electronic data, much of it
nonetheless reveals information about individuals that simply was not knowable
in previous generations. As Daniel Solove has observed, "We are becoming a
society of records, and these records are not held by us, but by third parties."
n143

   Digital records reveal who we talk to, where we go, and what we purchase.
They give insight into our hobbies, our financial status, our employment, and
our criminal histories. n144 When linked together, these disparate data  [*355]
points can create a revealing composite of our identity, and when accessible by
the government, they can serve as a valuable source of investigatory power. n145

   As the 2013 National Security Agency scandal reveals, n146 phone companies,
Internet companies, and law enforcement all have the capability to store,
access, analyze, and share the metadata of phone calls. n147 Metadata reveals
the phone numbers contacted from a targeted phone. n148 Metadata  [*356]  from
cell phones can reveal the location and time of a call, text, or email. n149 As
one commentator explained:



   Information about where your phone has been might seem innocuous, but it can
be surprisingly revealing. Location data can identify where someone sleeps,
where they work, who they get a beer with, what medical professionals they visit
and what political or religious gatherings they attend. And it's almost
impossible to anonymize this data because ... people are "living in habitrails,"
following a standardized schedule in which work and home markers are easy to
discern. n150

 Location tracking through smartphone technology has become a normal part of
police investigation. n151 This information is not limited to the national
security context, as local law enforcement regularly requests access to phone
records for ordinary criminal cases. n152 Finally, of course, the public
willingly  [*357]  gives up this locational data to private companies interested
in our habits and patterns. n153

   Just as people are tracked by where they go and with whom they speak, our
cars and public transportation services are also tracked. Automatic license
plate readers record the location of tens of thousands of cars in a growing
number of cities. n154 Electronic toll collection systems record travel patterns
on highways. n155 Speed cameras record travel on local roads. n156 Data
recorders in our cars collect information about our driving habits, including
the speed at which we drive. n157 GPS devices - using the same technology that
powers our navigation systems - can track our cars. n158 Surveillance devices
are being installed on public buses and subways. n159

   We reveal information about ourselves not only in the physical world, but
also when we go online or use mobile applications. Some Internet and social
media sites track every single click of the mouse, revealing everything  [*358]
a user does online. n160 When combined with the use of mobile communications and
mobile technology, this data provides investigatory clues as to what a user does
in the real world. n161

   Corporations regularly mine this online data for commercial advertising
purposes. n162 In fact, both online and offline, companies create targeted
consumer profiles that understand what we buy, what we do not buy, n163 and even
how long we spend in particular areas of stores. n164 This information is not
used just to sell things. As Slate reported, "for a brief period of time in
[*359]  2005 and 2006, the FBI, hoping to find some underground Iranian
terrorist cells, ... went through customer data collected by grocery stores in
the San Francisco area searching for sales records of Middle Eastern food." n165
Because purchases can be traced to a particular point of sale, law enforcement
can identify a person's location at any given point in time. n166

   Our purchases also reveal our financial resources, information that is also
stored directly in numerous digital databases. n167 As anyone with credit knows,
credit reports include a life's worth of financial data and life experiences.
n168 The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has extensive data collection
power over financial accounts, including personal information, n169 but this
pales in comparison to the data held by private information aggregators who have
developed lucrative business models around the collection and aggregation of
personal information. n170



   There are information aggregation businesses in the private sector that
already combine personal data from thousands of private-sector sources and
public records. ChoicePoint, Acxiom, LexisNexis, the three national credit
bureaus, and dozens of other companies maintain rich repositories of information
about virtually every adult in the country. These records are updated daily by a
steady stream of incoming data. They provide a one-stop-shop for the government
when it wants access to personal data, and most of the government's data mining
initiatives depend on access to those data. n171

  [*360]  While federal, state, and local laws limit direct government access to
financial records without some legal process, n172 the government may indirectly
access this same information through data aggregating services almost without
restriction. n173

   Finally, police, of course, access law enforcement records of past
convictions, arrests, and information related to those contacts. Most officers
have access to the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), a computerized
database of criminal justice information. n174 According to internal FBI
reports, users searched the NCIC database 2.7 billion times in 2011 and the
database had 11.7 million active records. n175 Once police have accessed the
NCIC system, they can pull up physical characteristics or addresses and query
the database to determine whether observed suspects live in an area or whether
they match a description of a wanted suspect. n176

   2. Networked Data

 The investigatory utility of standalone databases improves when law enforcement
agencies and private companies connect those databases and aggregate their data.
Indeed, linking traditional criminal justice data with private data provides a
wealth of insights about a person. n177 In recent years,  [*361]  the federal
government created two such networked database programs, but eventually
discontinued their use due to public concerns about privacy.

   The first database, the Multi-State Anti-Terrorism Information Exchange
Program (MATRIX), included a networked database that allowed police officers to
check a broad range of information with one search, including criminal history,
credit information, driver's license information, vehicle registration, arrests,
utility connections, UCC filings, concealed weapons permits, FAA aircraft and
pilots licenses, hunting and fishing licenses, professional licenses, and voter
registration records. n178 As the Electronic Privacy Information Center argued
in its amicus brief in Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada, a
police officer using the MATRIX system could develop an entire profile of a
suspect simply by running a name in the database during a routine encounter.
n179 According to the Department of Homeland Security's Privacy Office in its
review of the program,



   only 2.6% of the cases investigated over the course of the MATRIX pilot
project were related to terrorism. In fact, the MATRIX project was predominantly
used to investigate fraud, robbery, and other crimes, including assault,
homicide and narcotics cases, underscoring the value of the program as a tool
for traditional law enforcement. n180

 The second database, the even more Orwellian-sounding Total Information
Awareness System, was designed by the Department of Defense to fight terrorism
by linking data sources into one searchable national information collection
center. n181 Renamed the Terrorism Information Awareness  [*362]  system, n182
this program had several components all designed to aggregate available
information for predictive surveillance purposes. n183 The Department of Defense
reportedly designed the program to "connect the dots" in an attempt to avoid
repeating the missed opportunities to intervene before the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001. n184 Among other things, the program sought to create
predictive "risk profiles" for particular citizens based on the available data.
n185

   While these two programs (and others) were canceled over privacy concerns,
n186 law enforcement and private companies have embraced the idea of networking
and sharing personal information. First, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's
Criminal Justice Information Services Division coordinates access to databases
that include public and private sources. n187 FBI agents  [*363]  and analysts
regularly access these databases which contain hundreds of millions of records.
n188

   Law enforcement has benefited and continues to benefit from the growth of
private surveillance collection services. n189 For example, the technology that
ran the Total Information Awareness Program is now owned by LexisNexis, a
private company. n190 As one expert has written, "The private sector is
developing domain specific technologies (that is, applications developed
specifically for law enforcement purposes) to aggregate and mine data using both
link analysis and pattern-matching in criminal investigations and these
technologies are already being adopted and employed in a variety of law
enforcement environments." n191 Police, thus, can and do request information
from third-party data sources, including commercial data aggregators, Google,
phone companies, and social and financial networks. n192 This creates the
potential to replicate in the private  [*364]  sector much of what was
envisioned in the original government surveillance projects that were considered
threatening to Americans' privacy. n193

   Finally, because commercial entities - rather than the government - own these
"fourth-party" records, they avoid many of the constitutional and statutory
protections that might ensure privacy of these records. n194 "Today, data
aggregators are able to cross-index various sources of information to produce
incredibly extensive - and invasive - lists for practically any purpose. For
example, many can "provide lists of people who take Prozac for depression,
believe in the Bible, gamble online, or buy sex toys.'" n195  [*365]  Similarly,
the aggregators can tailor searches to identify those allegedly engaged in
illicit activities, who otherwise would avoid suspicion. Such tools are
increasingly useful to generate personalized, individualized information about a
suspect, and remain largely unregulated.

   3. Identifiable Data

 To solve crimes, law enforcement must not only collect information, but also
identify and link individuals to their accumulated data. In short, data must be
connected with identifiable human beings.

   Facial recognition software, biometric identification technologies, and
mobile communication make it easier to identify unknown suspects and access data
associated with these suspects. n196 Today, facial recognition software can
identify a suspect by comparing the observed suspect's face to a database of
stored faces. n197 As sources of photographs proliferate, and law enforcement
databases link these sources together, the utility and ease of the technology
will expand rapidly. n198 In more technologically advanced  [*366]
jurisdictions, mobile handheld devices can match faces to a central database.
n199 Soon the technology will complete searches in real time by allowing police
to scan multiple faces along a street. n200 As more police use portable
computers linked to these photograph databases, the ability of law enforcement
to scan and analyze faces to identify suspects will become more common. n201

   The scale of available photo databases demonstrates the power of networked
data. As reported by The Washington Post, "The FBI's own facial-recognition
database has about 15 million criminal mug shots. Bureau officials are pushing
to expand that by tens of millions more by encouraging states to upload their
criminal justice photos into the national system." n202 Many states have
complied or are complying with this request, and some have created their own
systems. The Pinellas County Sheriff's Office in Florida, for example, has built
one of the country's most advanced  [*367]  facial-recognition programs. n203
"The faces of more than 120 million people are in searchable photo databases
that state officials assembled to prevent driver's license fraud but that
increasingly are used by police to identify suspects, accomplices and even
innocent bystanders in a wide range of criminal investigations." n204
"Pennsylvania's Justice Network, which has allowed police anywhere in the state
to compare a facial image with mug-shot databases, has become a key
investigative tool ... and last month it added access to 34 million
driver's-license photos." n205 These examples represent only the beginning as
twenty-six states now allow local law enforcement to access driver's license
photographs for facial recognition purposes. n206 In addition, facial
recognition programs can easily search a wealth of personal photographs uploaded
online. n207

   Facial recognition is but one technology used to identify suspects on the
streets. Law enforcement can also use biometric identification technologies n208
that look to irises, tattoos, scars, face-shape, and even the habitual  [*368]
manner in which people walk. n209 The goal: a comprehensive remote scanning
technology that would allow instant identification of suspects through a quick
search of a massive database. n210 One existing program, dubbed MORIS, already
allows an ordinary iPhone user to scan an iris and compare it to a database of
biometric identifiers. n211 With MORIS,



   police can take a picture of the subject's face from up to [five] feet away
and conduct an iris scan from up to [six] inches from the person's eye. The
device matches photographs against a national criminal records database that is
managed by Biometric Intelligence and Identification Technologies ("BI2
Technologies'), the private company that designed MORIS. n212

 Other techniques will also be developed that may allow similar scanning through
other surveillance techniques. n213

   These growing mobile technologies not only allow law enforcement to identify
previously unknown suspects but also provide other networked personal
information about those suspects. n214 As one state law enforcement  [*369]
officer remarked, "I can call up everything about you, your pictures and
pictures of your neighbors." n215 In addition, these technologies will allow law
enforcement to identify targeted populations easily, such as gang members or
suspects identified on "most wanted lists." n216 For example, police in Lincoln,
Nebraska, carry a mobile application called "P3I" (Proactive Police Patrol
Information) that displays the location of suspected gang members, registered
sex offenders, people with outstanding warrants, parolees, and criminal incident
reports. n217 The result is that big data technology can provide vastly more
identifying information to help determine reasonable suspicion on the streets.

   C. Predictive Data

 Big data also promises another change in law enforcement techniques. The
expansive collection of data allows for more sophisticated analysis that might
reveal previously unknown patterns of criminal activity. n218

    [*370]  Predictive policing technologies are already in use in major cities
such as Los Angeles and Seattle. n219 While current technologies focus primarily
on expected "places" of criminal activity, they also predict patterns of
criminal actions. Computer programs can analyze these patterns, and police
accordingly could use these patterns to stop unknown suspects whose actions fit
the predicted activity. n220 Available technologies provide different levels of
sophistication, but the underlying theory that crime patterns can be identified,
analyzed, and predicted is well established. n221 Traditional hot-spot mapping,
n222 COMPSTAT systems, n223 and more modern technologies like predictive
policing all rely on data analysis to track crime patterns. n224 The logic
behind these technologies is that certain environmental vulnerabilities exist to
encourage crime at a particular location. n225 Repeated observation of  [*371]
these place-based vulnerabilities allows analysts or algorithms to predict the
next area of likely criminal activity. n226

   The collected crime data also holds other keys to understanding the actions
of criminals. n227 Criminals adopt certain modi operandi and generally are
creatures of habit. n228 In fact, one reason why certain crimes encourage almost
"contagious" criminal activity in the surrounding areas is because the same
criminals (or groups of criminals) are doing the acts. n229 Identifying these
patterns may well provide clues as to who was involved in the crimes. n230
Sometimes these patterns, in conjunction with other factors, such as bus routes,
escape routes, weather patterns, paydays, license plates, and special events,
may also reveal a likely offender. n231

   At a deeper level of sophistication, with enough data, police will be able to
predict criminal networks from patterns or connections. n232 Just as companies
can identify you and your interests and associates from past activities, law
enforcement might be able to target criminal networks using  [*372]  similar
pattern recognition technologies. n233 For example, police concerned with the
manufacture of methamphetamine could glean valuable information from commercial
sales data in a jurisdiction. Big data analysts might track all of the purchases
of individuals who bought several of the component parts required to make the
drug: lye, iodine, ephedrine (Sudafed), Drano, brake fluid, and lighter fluid.
n234 Each of these products has a lawful use, but identifying the individuals
who bought all of these products would be a valuable clue in determining who
might also be making methamphetamine. Patterns of anonymous sales data alone
might demonstrate the levels of meth manufacture taking place; identifying the
actual identities of repeat purchasers would benefit investigators even more.
Though merely a more sophisticated form of criminal profiling, n235 this
possibility has drawn the interest of major players, including the FBI, n236 who
see the potential of big data pattern matching. n237

    [*373]  Several jurisdictions have even compiled "bad guy lists" of
individuals they predict will commit crimes in the future or are involved in
ongoing criminal activity but have not yet been caught. As Rodney Moore, the
Chief of Police of Charlotte-Mecklenburg, North Carolina, stated, "We could name
our top 300 offenders. So we will focus on those individuals, the persons
responsible for the criminal activity, regardless of who they are or where they
live... . We're not just looking for crime. We're looking for people." n238
These unofficial lists are not based on ongoing observed actions, but instead
derive from a suspect's links to known criminal actors or past alleged actions.

   D. Unprotected Data

 Big data remains largely under-regulated. This Section reviews the
constitutional, statutory, and commercial restrictions imposed on the collection
and use of information underlying big data.

   As a constitutional matter, few limits exist on accessing and collecting
personal data. The controlling Fourth Amendment standard, derived from Katz v.
United States, asks whether an individual has an expectation of privacy that
society would consider objectively reasonable. n239 This expectation of privacy
test has little application to the information police collect about individuals
who enter the criminal justice system (including convictions, arrests, or
biographical information provided pursuant to the criminal process). It also has
little application to information individuals knowingly expose to the public, as
the Supreme Court has reasoned that this information does not deserve Fourth
Amendment protection. n240 In addition, information given to private individuals
who later turn it over to law enforcement is not protected under the theory that
the risk of disclosure was assumed by revealing the information to another
person. n241 Similarly, data  [*374]  given to commercial third parties,
including banking records, n242 telephone call lists, n243 cell phone locations,
n244 or Internet search or subscriber information n245  [*375]  have not been
protected by the third-party doctrine. n246 Some scholars have critiqued this
policy, and Justice Sotomayor has expressed some inclination to reconsider the
third-party doctrine. n247 By and large, however, Fourth Amendment protection is
currently unavailable for this type of information.

   Unlike these constitutionally unprotected categories of information, there
exists a patchwork of statutes that limit the disclosure of health information,
financial information, and some online communication. n248 To be clear, these
statutes cover direct access to third-party information. For example, the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 n249 (HIPAA) protects
access to medical records, although it allows law enforcement to access the
records through an administrative, trial, or grand jury subpoena. n250 Likewise,
laws such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, n251 the Bank Secrecy Act, n252 the
Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, n253 and the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
n254 provide some measure of protection from unauthorized access to financial
records, although these protections can be surmounted by a subpoena or court
order.

   Similarly, the content of electronic communications is statutorily protected
by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 n255 (ECPA)  [*376]  and
the Stored Communications Act, n256 but the protection lapses quickly. n257
Finally, telephone records are subject to protection through the Telephone
Records and Privacy Protection Act of 2006, n258 but they too can be accessed by
police if the evidence is relevant based on "specific and articulable" facts.
n259

   In addition to constitutional and statutory protections, certain consumer
guidelines established by companies promise to keep information private. n260
Yet most major commercial entities - including Internet search companies, online
retailers, and social media platforms - collect data to monetize it. n261 In
fact, many businesses, including big-name companies like Google, Microsoft,
Yahoo!, and Facebook, are financially successful, in part, because of their
ability to sell targeted advertising using user data. n262 These economic
incentives, combined with a willingness to assist law enforcement as good
corporate citizens, means that most third-party information is not
well-protected from government access.

   III. Big Data and Reasonable Suspicion on the Streets

 What happens when a doctrine built on small data becomes overwhelmed by big
data? What happens when previously unknown suspects can become known with a few
quick search queries? Police and courts will soon confront this new reality as
officers come to use existing facial recognition or biometric technology and
networked databases to obtain individualized and particularized information
about a suspect. Courts will confront additional questions as these technologies
become more sophisticated, mobile, and reliant on predictive analytics.

    [*377]  This Part studies this intersection of technology and doctrine
through three different lenses - observation, investigation, and prediction -
mirroring the most common types of police work. Police officers regularly
observe ongoing criminal activity, investigate past criminal activity, and
predict future criminal activity. The impact of "big data suspicion" will be
different depending on the type of police activity at issue.

   A. Observation of Ongoing or Imminent Crimes

 Consider a modern day Terry v. Ohio situation. Detective McFadden is patrolling
the street. He observes John Terry and, using facial recognition technology,
identifies him and begins to investigate using big data. Detective McFadden
learns through a database search that Terry has a prior criminal record,
including a couple of convictions and a number of arrests. n263 McFadden learns,
through pattern-matching links, that Terry is an associate (a "hanger on") of a
notorious, violent local gangster - Billy Cox - who had been charged with
several murders. n264 McFadden also learns that Terry has a substance abuse
problem and is addicted to drugs. n265 These factors - all true, but unknown to
the real Detective McFadden - are individualized and particularized to Terry.
Alone, they may not constitute reasonable suspicion that Terry is committing or
about to commit a particular crime. But in conjunction with Terry's observed
actions of pacing outside a store with two associates, the information makes the
reasonable suspicion finding easier and, likely, more reliable.

   In observation cases, by using mobile facial recognition to identify the
suspect, the officer now can turn any unknown suspect into a known suspect and
can search for information that might justify reasonable suspicion. This change
allows the officer to review traditional data sources known to law enforcement,
including prior criminal history, arrests, addresses, gang associations, known
associates, and even concealed weapons permits. Perhaps this individual is on a
local "most wanted" list or a watch list as someone who has already been
identified as being trouble in the neighborhood. n266 Perhaps  [*378]  his
height, weight, race, hairstyle, facial hair, or other distinguishing marks
match a robbery suspect. This traditional law enforcement information might also
now include data from automatic license plate readers, digitally archived
surveillance video, and intelligence reports created and maintained by police.
Even this limited information may be - as a constitutional matter - enough for
an officer to stop the suspect. If, for example, the suspect had an extensive
history of commercial robberies, or if license plate data connected him to prior
robberies in the area, this information might well constitute reasonable
suspicion that the suspect was going to commit a robbery.

   Additional big data innovations may also assist the police. For example, the
New York Police Department (NYPD) has unveiled the Domain Awareness System (DAS)
in partnership with Microsoft. n267 This technology allows an officer to
observe, through video surveillance or automated license plate readers, the
location of a suspect prior to the initial observation:



   DAS is capable of rapidly blending and analyzing realtime data gathered from
roughly 3,000 civic closed-circuit cameras, 911 call recordings, and license
plate readers ... as well as historical crime reports. Now the NYPD can do
things like track a vehicle and instantly determine nearly everywhere it's been
for the past few days or weeks; instantly access a suspect's arrest record, and
all the 911 calls related to a particular crime; [and] map criminal history to
geospatially and chronologically reveal crime patterns ... . n268

 Thus, the officer could determine whether the suspect had just arrived with a
getaway driver, had been casing the store, or had merely been doing non-criminal
errands all morning. n269 These patterns may well affect whether an officer has
reasonable suspicion that a suspect is about to commit a crime.

    [*379]  For a second level of inquiry, imagine the police officer uses
networked databases owned by third parties to discover personal information
about a suspect. This data might include credit information, financial records,
credit card activity, employment, past addresses and telephone numbers, names
and addresses of family members, neighbors' addresses and telephone numbers,
business associates, make, model, and color of registered vehicles, social
security numbers, dates of birth, bankruptcies, liens and judgments, and GPS
locational data. While access to some of these data would usually require
particular legal authorization, law enforcement can circumvent statutes
restricting direct access by instead using "fourth-party" commercial
aggregators. n270 Such personalized information will allow an officer to develop
a more individualized picture of a suspect. While generally unemployment, credit
card debt, and bankruptcy are not indicia of criminal activity, when viewed in
conjunction with suspicious action in front of an expensive jewelry store,
however, a personal financial crisis might be relevant to the totality of
circumstances. Further, accurate GPS data tying the suspect to a prior robbery
or to a pawnshop might lead to reasonable suspicion. Even the otherwise innocent
purchase of a wool cap or ski mask at Walmart might tip a seasonal purchase into
reasonable suspicion.

   Finally, imagine if law enforcement could access the suspect's social media
data. n271 Search queries, Facebook and Twitter posts, YouTube videos, emails,
texts, and similar communications are all available to third-party providers -
if not publically available. While personal content is usually statutorily (or
commercially) protected, it is generally not constitutionally protected. This
mosaic of personal information might well provide individualized facts necessary
to make the police officer's suspicion reasonable. n272 For example, a suspect's
admission of financial difficulties or photograph displaying the fruits of the
crime through social media could appropriately be added to the totality of
circumstances.

   With each level of search, officers can access additional individualized and
particularized facts that, when viewed within the totality of circumstances,
help justify the officer's stop of a suspect. The effect is that additional
personalized information encourages a finding of reasonable suspicion. A  [*380]
trip to a pawnshop could indicate a person is selling stolen goods - or is
merely poor enough to have to sell belongings at a steep discount. A photograph
of jewelry could be an admission of theft or could simply be a photograph of
jewelry. Yet in a criminal investigation, the inferences of suspicion are easy
to develop and, against a low legal threshold, easy to meet.

   Of course, suspicious facts must be connected with a suspected crime. It
would not be relevant if the searches revealed a pattern of domestic violence
crimes, unrelated to robbery. It would also not be relevant if the information
was not directly connected to the suspect. Being a friend of a friend of a known
robber is a fact, but not one that should influence the constitutional calculus.
But, as long as the data are connected to both the suspected criminal activity
and the suspected criminal, it would likely be persuasive in evaluating
reasonable suspicion in observation cases.

   B. Investigation of Completed Crimes

 Many crimes occur without direct police observation, and police must
investigate the crime to identify the perpetrator. Reasonable suspicion is still
relevant in investigating past crimes (assuming the information available does
not rise to the higher level of probable cause). n273 In Hensley, the Supreme
Court set out the standard for investigating past crimes based on reasonable
suspicion:



   The precise limits on investigatory stops to investigate past criminal
activity are more difficult to define. The proper way to identify the limits is
to apply the same test already used to identify the proper bounds of intrusions
that further investigations of imminent or ongoing crimes. That test, which is
grounded in the standard of reasonableness embodied in the Fourth Amendment,
balances the nature and quality of the intrusion on personal security against
the importance of the governmental interests alleged to justify the intrusion.
When this balancing test is applied to stops to investigate past crimes, we
think that probable cause to arrest need not always be required. n274

  [*381]  While acknowledging that courts might balance these interests
differently when investigating a past, completed crime - as opposed to an
ongoing crime n275 - the Supreme Court still held that "the ability to briefly
stop that person, ask questions, or check identification in the absence of
probable cause promotes the strong government interest in solving crimes and
bringing offenders to justice." n276 By adopting a reasonable suspicion test for
investigation of past crimes, the Court gave police the flexibility to stop
suspects based on this lower threshold of suspicion. n277

   As in observation cases, the primary use of big data would be to identify
unknown perpetrators for arrest and prosecution. As one security expert
explained, "imagine the ability to instantly take a security camera photograph
from a bank robbery and match it using a facial recognition algorithm to a
photograph in an out-of-state motor vehicle database, and then to link that
person's name to a mobile phone from a private-sector marketing database." n278
Already, police have relied on similar linkages of networked information in more
run-of-the-mill cases. n279 With new search technology, disparate pieces of data
are compiled to link, match, and identify a suspect through pattern matching
techniques. This can be done not only with a name, address, or license plate,
but also with a particular modus operandi. n280  [*382]  This information,
specific to a person and particularized to a crime, meets both requirements
needed to establish reasonable suspicion.

   The value of big data to reasonable suspicion investigations is probably
greater than its value to observation cases, because police have time to
surmount the "legal process" requirements necessary to obtain third-party
information. n281 With an official request, a court order, or a subpoena (let
alone a warrant or grand jury subpoena), law enforcement officers can obtain
most third-party data if doing so in furtherance of a criminal investigation.
n282

   Software can isolate patterns and identify suspects through existing public
and private data in novel ways. One fascinating example of big data sleuthing
arose out of the investigation of a major Swedish armed robbery of millions of
dollars. n283 Police assumed that, to disguise their plot, the thieves must have
used prepaid disposable phones. Data analysts then searched through the list of
all prepaid disposable phones in the area looking for "a set of phones that
stayed within their own miniature network." n284 Police analysts found a single
set of phones that only communicated with each other, did so only for a few
weeks leading up to the heist, and then went silent after the robbery.
Identifying this network allowed police to solve the case. Police traced the
phones to specific cell tower locations corresponding with the robbers'
locations before, during, and after the robbery. n285 In fact, once police knew
the numbers, they could track location-by-location exactly where the robbers had
been. When police identified one person who had purchased the phones, they were
able to determine how the crime occurred and the location of the thieves at all
times. n286

   Major police departments, as well as the FBI, have adopted this type of
pattern matching investigation technique. n287 In child abduction cases,  [*383]
"Amber alerts" have led to quick reviews of license plate reader databases. By
searching the location of a car, police can determine the likely route of the
suspect. n288 In gang cases, recordings of gunshots have helped map out areas of
contested gang turf. n289

   Returning to the robbery example, imagine that a particular jewelry store was
robbed by an unknown suspect. Police officers have a video still from the
robbery that does not allow for a facial recognition match. The photo, however,
clearly shows a neck tattoo, and officers obtain a partial description of the
getaway car. Running a search for the tattoo against a database might narrow the
list of suspects. Comparing the narrowed list with owners of a particular type
of car might further limit the list of suspects. Looking at the remaining
suspects' associates, movements, or even bank deposits, credit card
expenditures, or social media comments might again tighten the search. The
result is that big data can help identify the suspect with a few search queries.
While these data might not be enough to get an arrest warrant, they would likely
provide the reasonable suspicion needed to stop and investigate the suspect.
n290

   C. Predicting Crimes

 Unlike observation or investigation cases, reasonable suspicion based on
prediction remains the stuff of science fiction. Police have begun to predict
areas of heightened criminal activity, n291 and may predict likely troublemakers
[*384]  involved in criminal enterprise through an unofficial "bad guy list,"
but predictive analytics cannot yet tell police whom to stop for a crime not yet
committed. To be clear, these are prediction-based stops where no crime has
occurred and no crime is observed.

   Yet big data invites provocative questions about whether such predictive tips
should factor into the reasonable suspicion calculus. For example, if a drug
distribution gang is run by a tight-knit family or neighborhood organization,
such that the pattern for several years has been that when one family member is
arrested, another cousin or brother takes their place, then why can we not
predict who will be the next member of the gang? n292 If burglaries are
contagious in part because the same gang of burglars commits similar crimes, and
police identify one burglar, why should we not target a burglar's associates as
likely suspects for future burglaries? n293 In these cases, police could show
specific and articulable facts indicating that a particular person is likely to
participate in ongoing criminal activity (e.g., drug dealing or burglaries).
n294 Because the criminal enterprise is ongoing, the Terry standard might well
apply, and police could try to stop and investigate would-be members of these
criminal organizations if they were observed doing anything that might suggest
drug dealing or burglary.

   The questions get harder when no ongoing criminal enterprise exists, yet the
same predictive logic holds. In Chicago, analysts have identified young people
at greater risk of being involved in gun violence. n295 Researchers  [*385]  can
predict their likelihood of being a victim or perpetrator of gun violence using
big data metrics, including place of residence, social associations (e.g., past
experience with victims of gun violence and gang connections), and age. n296
Assuming the accuracy of these data, could police target these individuals as
part of a predictive stop strategy? n297 In fact, the Chicago Police Department
appears to have adopted this predictive logic in its intervention program. As
described by the New York Times,



   in recent months, as many as 400 officers a day, working overtime, have been
dispatched to just 20 small zones deemed the city's most dangerous. The police
say they are tamping down retaliatory shootings between gang factions by using a
comprehensive analysis of the city's tens of thousands of suspected gang
members, the turf they claim and their rivalries. The police are also focusing
on more than 400 people they have identified as having associations that make
them the most likely to be involved in a murder, as a victim or an offender.
n298

  [*386]  Those four hundred individuals - part of a list of predicted offenders
- were identified through big data techniques. Chicago police call it a "heat
list." n299 Young men on the heat list are targets of predictive
intervention-based strategies.

   While a Fourth Amendment stop based solely on an individual's inclusion on
this list, without more, might not be sufficiently particularized, big data
tools exist to generate the necessary reasonable suspicion. n300 For example,
imagine one of those four hundred individuals is a young man whom police wish to
stop because they suspect that he is up to no good (and likely in possession of
a gun). Plainly, an officer's suspicion that someone is "up to no good" does not
constitute constitutionally sufficient justification for a stop. An officer sees
the young man on the streets (but not engaged in any overt criminal activity).
The officer identifies the young man as being on a list of individuals that
predictive analytics suggested are at a heightened risk of involvement in gun
violence. A quick NCIC database search reveals gang contacts, criminal
associates, and prior arrests - including gun charges. Gang tattoos link the
young man to local gangs. A license plate reader places the family car in the
general vicinity of a gang shooting in the last month. His Facebook profile
contains statements that police could interpret as directing violence at rival
gang members. n301 Finally, predictive policing software has forecast the young
man's location as the site of likely gun violence. If the police officer stops
the young man (doing nothing overtly criminal) and finds a gun during a frisk,
would a court really say there was not individualized and particularized
suspicion that this individual was involved in gun and gang-related activity?
Though the young man took no action to signify criminal activity, the data
suggest that he was far more likely to be in possession of a gun than most
people in Chicago.

   How courts resolve these issues will determine the impact of big data on law
enforcement. On one hand, judges might require some affirmative, imminent
suspicious activity correlating with gun possession before upholding the stop,
such as "furtive movements," a suspicious bulge, or unexplained  [*387]
nervousness. n302 Without the requirement of some observable activity, the odds
increase that predictive stops will target innocent people, criminalize by
association, and negatively impact individuals based on little more than a hunch
supported by non-criminal facts. On the other hand, many judges might find this
totality of suspicions - even if focused on a particular suspect and not a crime
- sufficient to justify an investigatory stop. Reasonable suspicion is a low
threshold. Thus, in practice, aggregated reasonable suspicion would likely
justify a stop in many courtrooms. As Part IV explains, this shift has
significant implications for the Fourth Amendment.

   D. Big Data Suspicion

 Big data's ability to generate information about an identified suspect reveals
the inherent vulnerability in the reasonable suspicion standard. Indeed, along
the continuum of suspicion, more data makes it easier to satisfy the standard
for two primary reasons. First, under a totality-of-circumstances test, the more
factors a court considers in the totality, the easier it is to articulate
suspicion. Quantity can make up for quality. n303 Second, the information
provided by big data is individualized and particularized, consistent with the
Terry language. n304 To be clear, the data are individualized to the criminal,
not the crime. As courts apply Terry, however, which arose in the unknown
suspect context, the difference becomes blurred.

   This latter point is important to emphasize. The language in the earlier
reasonable suspicion cases speaks to a general suspicion of unspecified criminal
actions, using terms like "criminal activity may be afoot," n305 "involved in
criminal activity," n306 "legal wrongdoing," n307 or "illegality." n308 The
general language does not require discussion of a particular observed crime
(e.g., drug distribution or gun possession), because the officer actually
observed the illegal activity in question. The observed crime and the  [*388]
observed criminal were not separate things to analyze; no distinction was needed
in the analysis. Thus, in a small data world, the traditional language
describing suspicious behavior has no meaning outside of the observed activity.

   In a big data world, this same generalized language becomes distorted. An
officer may know information about a suspect, but the question becomes: how does
that information relate to the observed actions? Knowing someone is a "drug
dealer" does not mean that the individual is actively dealing drugs at the
moment of observation. Courts analyzing big data suspicion should thus be
careful to require a direct link between the past data about a suspect and the
observed suspicion. With big data suspicion, it is important for the
individualized and particularized information to relate to the particular action
observed. If a police officer identifies a suspect and learns information about
the suspect's arrests, convictions, or associations that has nothing to do with
the observed actions (if the officer observed any actions at all), then the new
information should be irrelevant to the reasonable suspicion calculus. Only when
those particularized factors can be connected to observed actions that signify
criminal activity should they affect the analysis.

   Courts will soon be asked to address the impact of big data on reasonable
suspicion. But before that time, policymakers will need to think through and
evaluate whether this innovation is good or bad for police, individuals, and
society.

   IV. Evaluating Big Data and Predictive Reasonable Suspicion

 While big data may expose the fragility of the reasonable suspicion doctrine,
the technology has arrived, and its impact on Fourth Amendment cases is
imminent. As such, it is necessary to evaluate the questions of law and policy
that arise from the move to big data policing. This Part discusses positives and
negatives of big data policing and provides suggestions on how to address the
pending evolution of Fourth Amendment doctrine.

   A. The Positives of Big Data Suspicion

 As may be evident from early adoption and experimentation with predictive
technologies, law enforcement officials see the potential of these tools to
reduce crime. Big data suspicion, if used correctly, can improve accuracy and
efficiency, and it will yield unexpected insights into the patterns of criminal
activity.

[*389]

   1. Improved Accuracy

 Reasonable suspicion based on big data primarily benefits law enforcement
because of the increased accuracy it purports to offer. n309 More information,
and more precise information, should make it more likely that police target
actual criminals rather than innocent people. In a small data environment,
police rely on proxies for information to the detriment of everyone. Class,
race, age, choice of clothing, and gender all factor into police officers'
discretionary decisions on the street. n310 Police perceive ambiguous actions as
suspicious because of subtle cues or instincts. These judgments also
unfortunately include explicit and implicit biases, policing traditions, and the
frailties of human perception. n311 Replacing those generalized intuitions with
[*390]  precise detail about actual people should result in a more accurate
policing strategy. Humans are notoriously bad at making snap judgments, and
while police officers make more snap judgments than most, they are not immune
from the imperfections of human nature. n312

   For example, stories of racial profiling involving famous celebrities,
wealthy professionals, and other citizens show how racial stereotypes can
influence suspicion. n313 Yet in a big data world, a quick license plate scan or
facial recognition check and a query of other databases (perhaps including
professional licenses or even addresses), could help avoid the indignity of
detention based solely on a police hunch. n314 Of course in many cases,
information will not reveal that the individual is a celebrity, but even basic
[*391]  personal or employment data (or lack of criminal information) might
provide police with a clue that a suspect is just an ordinary citizen not
involved in criminal activity.

   While vulnerable to abuse, predictive suspicion ultimately may make police
stops more reliable. At its core, reasonable suspicion is a doctrine of
predictive suspicion. The collected totality of circumstances must justify an
officer's prediction that criminal activity is afoot. n315 Thus, having more
information about an individual should result in more reliable predictions. n316
If police focus their efforts on people placed on "bad guy lists," it may
protect individuals who are not on the lists. If police are forced to use big
data to identify and link a suspect to a crime, they may also see patterns that
suggest that the suspect was not involved in the crime. In this way, big data
policing may be a measure more protective of individuals on the street.

   The accuracy that big data provides not only increases the likelihood that
police target the right suspects, but also, in turn, prevents the resulting
physical, face-to-face interactions that generate tension. n317 Many police
stops involve confirming or disproving suspicion. n318 Even if no arrest
results, the unpleasant (and perhaps unnecessary) police-citizen contact breeds
resentment and distrust. n319 Allowing police to confirm a person's lack  [*392]
of involvement in criminal activity through a database search, rather than a
physical stop, avoids unnecessary conflict.

   2. Exculpatory Facts

 Suspicion is not a one-way street. Suspicion can be disproved. Suspicion can be
alleviated. The advent of big data suspicion may require consideration of
exculpatory factors that lessen suspicion. Just as big data enables a wealth of
suspicious inferences, it also generates an equal number of potentially
exculpatory facts. For example, if Detective McFadden learned that John Terry's
wife worked near the downtown location of the observation, pacing outside a
store might turn from "casing a robbery" to "waiting for a loved one."

   The potentially exculpatory nature of big data is a strong positive argument
for its use in policing. Presumably, if big data information exists about a
suspect, police should be obligated to check before initiating a stop. n320 The
totality of circumstances should not be understood as the totality of suspicious
activities; it should include exculpatory information that reduces suspicion as
well. This is an established part of the probable cause analysis, n321 and big
data technology allows it to be included in the reasonable suspicion analysis.
Thus, existing exculpatory information should be factored into the totality of
circumstances and weighted just as heavily as suspicious factors.

   Courts might even require police to factor in exculpatory information as a
self-contained check on the regular discretionary powers granted to police. When
big data is available, an officer who did not use it in an exculpatory manner
might be deemed to have acted recklessly. n322 In the same way that courts may
take a negative inference from an unrecorded confession in a jurisdiction where
videotaping confessions is the norm, a failure to use the available search
technology might be held against the officer. n323 In this way,  [*393]  using
big data to determine reasonable suspicion might actually prevent certain stops
that would have been allowed under a traditional, small data reasonable
suspicion standard.

   3. Accountability

 Focusing on big data sources also provides the potential for increased
documentation of stops. In general, police do not document their suspicions
before a stop, nor does anyone do so on their behalf. n324 Data-driven
suspicion, though, can be documented beforehand. Police officers could
demonstrate the steps they took to investigate a suspect by producing records of
which databases they accessed and which search queries they used. In this way,
police would replace the ex post justification for a stop with an ex ante
description of the steps taken to validate a hunch before conducting a stop. In
simple terms, a police officer could show that she checked the NCIC database and
ran a license plate check before explaining why this information corroborated
her initial suspicion. This record has the potential not only to limit whom
police stop, but also to make a judge's determination of an officer's reasonable
suspicion significantly easier.

   This documentation will also encourage the development of a culture that
allows for auditing of data, standards for record collection, and perhaps even
notice requirements for targeted suspects. For example, police administrators,
as an internal monitoring strategy, might examine an officer's history of stops
to see what factors influenced his decision to stop a suspect. Looking through
the documented history of big data searches and comparing them with the
justifications for a stop might help police develop better training tools and
build stronger accountability measures. Independent of any court case, internal
monitoring measures can improve hit rates for arrests. In other data-driven
contexts, these types of retention and accountability efforts are built into the
regulating structure. n325

[*394]

   4. Efficiency

 A move toward data-driven policing will also improve the efficient use of
police resources. In many cases, better information will lead police to focus
scarce resources on more serious risks and prevent unnecessary contacts with
law-abiding citizens.

   The rise of predictive policing signals the beginning of this shift to
data-driven tips. n326 Underlying the theory of predictive policing is the idea
that areas statistically more likely to have crime should have an additional
police presence. n327 The data guide the officer patrol patterns, down to the
particular time, date, and location. n328 While not replacing police patrols in
other areas, police seek to target the areas identified through data. n329
Police administrators  [*395]  have embraced predictive policing because it
allows them to allocate resources more efficiently while at the same time
reducing crime.

   Similarly, collecting data on individuals or groups perceived to be at high
risk of entering the criminal justice system allows for a more focused use of
police resources. Joint federal and state fusion centers have evolved to tackle
gang and gun violence. n330 In these collaborative centers, police, with the
help of technology, identify and map individuals by known gang associations,
ethnicity, age, race, address, and social connections. n331 In Washington, D.C.,
one early partnership between federal and local law enforcement resulted in a
"gang audit" that "helped identify 136 of the most violent gang/crew members in
three of the highest crime areas in D.C." n332 People identified by police as
involved in gangs faced targeted interventions, including face-to-face meetings,
evictions from public housing, and criminal prosecution. n333 By mapping and
targeting only those statistically most likely to be involved in criminal
activity, the police attempted to address violence in the community proactively.
This was the thinking behind the Chicago "heat list," and the approach has the
benefit of focusing resources on those more likely to be involved in crime -
whether as perpetrators or victims. While predictive policing practices raise a
host of fairness concerns, from an efficiency perspective, recent innovations
appear to have been a success.

   5. Unexpected Insights

 Big data also allows for unexpected insights from the collection of vast
amounts of seemingly innocuous information. To package crack cocaine, a drug
dealer needs tiny plastic bags and a scale. n334 To fire a gun, a shooter
[*396]  needs a bullet. n335 To break into a car, a thief needs tools (modern or
old fashioned). n336 By tracking the sale of these items, police can recognize
patterns and thus identify the criminals making the purchases. Similarly, most
major criminal enterprises must launder money and otherwise hide illicit
proceeds. n337 Unusual deposits, purchases, or money transfers can allow police
to identify money laundering and the people involved. n338

   Incorporating geographic data can reveal patterns of location in an otherwise
fluid criminal environment. Knowing where particular crimes occur can allow for
more targeted suppression strategies. Big data allows for better tracking of
national (or transnational) crimes, including human trafficking, drug smuggling,
and credit card fraud. n339 For example, Google and others have partnered with
three international antitrafficking nonprofits to track where calls for
assistance originate to better map and disrupt human trafficking. n340
Similarly, hospital overdose admissions could reveal  [*397]  drug use patterns.
Social media trends may reveal clues about gang activities, n341 prostitution
services, n342 or cybercrime. n343

   Patterns of crime can also reveal the locations of criminal actors. Police
can link certain getaway routes to robbery hotspots. n344 Locations of gunshots
can reveal shifting gang-related turf borders. n345 Social services visits to
monitor "stay-away orders" can reveal potential locations of future domestic
violence. n346 Even the type of alcohol sold at stores and restaurants can
correlate with the rate of violent crime in a neighborhood. n347 These insights
can help police investigate and prevent crime and would not have been easily
observed before the advent of big data.

[*398]

   B. The Negatives of Big Data Suspicion

 While big data offers much promise, big data-driven policing also has potential
negative consequences. This Section outlines a few representative concerns.

   1. Bad Data

 A system based on data requires accurate, up-to-date information. n348 One
concern with a vast, ever-growing, networked data system is that the quality
controls on shared data are almost nonexistent. n349 Police may rely on existing
data without any knowledge of how the data was collected or whether mechanisms
exist to ensure its accuracy. Data problems have emerged even within locally
controlled systems n350 and certainly arise when jurisdictions share
information. n351 Reputed "gang lists" used by police have been shown to be
inaccurate. n352 Arrest reports can be inaccurate or erroneous  [*399]  but
remain in public and private databases. n353 The FBI's own files - used for
millions of background checks - reportedly contain hundreds of thousands of
errors. n354 Worse, there is no simple mechanism to clear the bad data from a
web of networked systems all sharing the same errors. n355

   Adding private, third-party sources of information only compounds the
problem. CBS News's 60 Minutes reported that "as many as forty million Americans
have a mistake on their credit report. Twenty million have significant
mistakes." n356 These are the same credit report datasets that underlie many
commercial big data systems. Both discovering and correcting mistakes is
difficult; it requires knowledge of the error and the wherewithal to change it.
Police agents accessing records, however, would have no knowledge that an error
existed - or even necessarily a way to check the accuracy of the data. Mistakes
can occur at any point in the process from collection to entry to analysis. In
addition, data can grow stale. Typographical errors can lead to erroneous
linkages. n357 These mistakes can have real consequences on individual liberty.
As Justice Ginsburg warned:



   Inaccuracies in expansive, interconnected collections of electronic
information raise grave concerns for individual liberty. The offense to the
dignity of the citizen who is arrested, handcuffed, and searched on a public
street simply because some bureaucrat has failed to maintain an accurate
computer data base is evocative of the use of general warrants that so outraged
the authors of our Bill of Rights. n358

  [*400]  The lack of transparency in these data systems only increases the
chance of error. Police systems are usually restricted to authorized police
users. Private companies, seeking commercial gain, have little incentive to
reveal the workings of proprietary systems or the data thereby collected. No
agency has the responsibility to audit the growing governmental and commercial
big data network. While the Federal Trade Commission has promised to monitor
private big data companies, n359 it has little ability to examine the data
itself and has no role in oversight of law enforcement use of the data. Though
oversight institutions do exist (including courts, congressional committees, and
independent agencies), n360 the volume of information at issue prevents these
groups from examining the quality of the data or the magnitude of the errors.
n361 Without transparency, there can be little hope for accountability to ensure
that data systems will be sufficiently reliable to justify altering
constitutional rights. n362 In short, big data suspicion may be based on bad
data.

[*401]

   2. False Positives

 Even assuming "good data," big data reasonable suspicion will result in false
positives whereby police stop innocent people. n363 This burden will fall most
heavily on individuals who have some criminal history, but who are not currently
engaging in criminal activity. n364 Predictive analytics will suggest suspicion
based on an identified correlation, but such suspicion will often be unfounded.
Perhaps a license plate reader will place the car of a convicted burglar within
a predicted burglary hotspot, which also happens to be next to the convicted
burglar's grandmother's house. Police might stop the suspected burglar solely
because of this correlation. One can imagine that those individuals who find
themselves on a "bad guy list" will be marked for more than their fair share of
borderline suspicious stops. n365

   Big data suspicion creates the real concern that certain individuals by
virtue of their past criminal activities will always be at risk to be stopped.
Those with lengthy criminal records or gang associations may be stopped because
of who they are and not what they are doing. Prior police contacts will become
the digital "scarlet letter" marking certain people in a community as
suspicious. n366

   Over the past several decades, poor people and people of color have had
disproportionate contact with the criminal justice system. n367 If these
contacts become data points that can be used in a reasonable suspicion analysis,
then these data may become proxies for race or class (with similar  [*402]
effect). For example, the ACLU's recent national study on marijuana arrests
demonstrates that African Americans are more likely to be arrested for marijuana
than whites, despite equivalent usage rates. n368 Thus, more data has been
collected about minority marijuana possession, even though whites commit the
crime at the same rate. If data are collected only about certain classes of
people, then those people are more likely to become future targets of suspicion
simply because of the initial selection bias. Thus, important questions remain
about who collects, interprets, and chooses the big data to study. n369

   Worse, like other quantitative systems used for decisionmaking, big
data-based predictive policing will appear to be objective and fair when it may
in fact reflect subjective factors and structural inequalities. Just as we have
credit ratings that allow lenders to predict future creditworthiness, police
could develop "criminal ratings" to predict future criminal proclivity. n370

   Similarly, data can lead us to believe our own worst instincts. n371 If
published data demonstrate a higher arrest rate for people of color, then this
information may well influence discretionary decisions about who to stop. n372
Implicit bias and confirmation bias will result in police seeing what they have
been told to see, even if it is not actually occurring. n373 Implicit bias
involves unconscious prejudices that influence individuals making discretionary
[*403]  decisions. n374 This can result in unequal outcomes for similarly
situated individuals. n375 Implicit bias inevitably exists in the ordinary
course of police activities, but is even more damaging when combined with
confirmation bias: "the tendency to bolster a hypothesis by seeking consistent
evidence while minimizing inconsistent evidence." n376 Thus, an officer
conditioned to believe that a particular type of person may be more likely to
commit a criminal act will likely see that person through the lens of suspicion.
By providing the information to confirm this suspicion, big data will make it
easier for police to justify a stop. Even more dangerously, an officer with
discriminatory animus may be able to justify a knowingly unconstitutional stop
using an aggregation of otherwise innocent data. n377

   This risk demonstrates how suspicions about past criminal actions can all too
easily morph into suspicions about current criminal activity. It highlights the
importance of requiring a nexus between the suspected criminal and the suspected
criminal activity. It also highlights the dangers of how big data can target
certain populations based on correlations with possible criminal activity,
rather than causation from real criminal activity. Justification to stop these
individuals - marked by big data - will be too easily met, undermining the
individualized and particularized protections in the Fourth Amendment.

   3. Shifting Power Balance

 The Constitution establishes a power-sharing relationship between citizens and
the government. The Fourth Amendment, like other parts of the Bill of Rights,
represents a check on government power. n378 The probable cause standard, and to
a lesser extent, the reasonable suspicion standard, limits the actions of
government agents. Big data, by weakening the reasonable  [*404]  suspicion
standard, restructures this relationship, with police gaining more power and
citizens losing a measure of liberty. Though citizens are complicit in giving up
much of that information to third parties, the government now has more
information and can use that information to investigate. n379 Possessing the
information, and letting citizens know the government possesses the information,
might alone shape individual choices. Citizens may be more reluctant to
associate with certain groups, participate in certain activities, or even take
political stances because of the information the government knows about their
private lives. n380 The collection of the information may be as threatening as
its potential use. n381 Privacy scholars have ably addressed this issue as a
consequence of the new big data world. n382 And, for police-citizen encounters
on the street, this informational power could alter behavior.

   V. Tentative Solutions

 This Article is an attempt to sketch the potential impact of big data
information on a small data reasonable suspicion doctrine. It has exposed real
distortions and potential vulnerabilities, as well as clear advantages, that
arise from this technological innovation. The debate over big data is noisy and
contested, perhaps revealing its immature state of development. This last Part
addresses tentative solutions in this changed landscape.

[*405]

   A. Doctrinal Changes

 Initially, we could simply require a more stringent standard of reasonable
suspicion. To be clear, the Supreme Court has been steadfast in articulating
that it has no intention of quantifying - or even clarifying - the standard,
instead recognizing that police officers operate within "the factual and
practical considerations of everyday life on which reasonable and prudent men,
not legal technicians, act." n383 But if the underlying logic of a standard
based on unknown suspects has been upended by all-knowing technology, then
perhaps the standard needs to be altered. The "factual and practical
considerations" are no longer limited to small data observations, so why
shouldn't the factual and practical considerations include requiring more data
now easily available? One could imagine that in the context of big data
predictive suspicion, where police can more easily access information, courts
might require more information to satisfy the reasonable suspicion standard.
n384

   In practical terms, this could result in a different standard of reasonable
suspicion when big data information is used. If big data makes more information
available with relatively little effort, then big data should be required to be
part of the reasonable suspicion calculus. This would include both potentially
suspicious and potentially exculpatory information. After all, if the original
justification for reasonable suspicion arose out of a situation necessarily
limited by practicality (unknown suspect, potentially imminent crime, limited
information), then better information about a known suspect suggests a different
standard should be used. n385

   B. Big Data Changes

 If changing the standard of reasonable suspicion is not a realistic option,
then perhaps the solution lies in the nature of big data itself. At its core,
big data encourages a heightened focus on (1) statistical analysis, (2)
geospatial  [*406]  and temporal analysis, and (3) link analysis. Adapting these
three methods of analysis to big data suspicion on the streets might provide
some precision and, thus, some limitation for an otherwise malleable standard.

   1. Statistical Analysis

 First, big data not only involves making predictions, but also quantifying the
likelihood that these predictions will come true. The statistical analysis
behind the predictive analytics provides actual, observable numbers. For
example, a predictive policing algorithm might report a 2.06% chance of a
burglary on a particular block. n386 A pattern match might provide police with a
percentage likelihood that a particular suspect associates with another
individual. In these cases, if part of the predictive suspicion of an individual
comes from big data, courts could require (when available) a numerical
prediction of accuracy. n387 This quantification process would necessarily
result in courts having to confront the ultimate question of how "certain" a
police officer must be to constitute reasonable suspicion. n388 This has been a
forbidden discussion in the courts, and the possibility of such a discussion
would likely forestall any adoption of this proposal. Yet big data creates the
promise of using quantitative and empirical evidence to refine what has
ordinarily been a quasi-subjective judgment. Courts and police could adapt this
hallmark of the big data revolution to sharpen the reasonable suspicion
analysis. Thus, a court might find a likelihood of 2.06% to be insufficient in
the reasonable suspicion analysis but a likelihood of 20.06% to be enough. Even
if courts were unwilling to establish a particular percentage threshold as
reasonable suspicion, the quantified likelihood could still be included in the
totality of circumstances calculation.

   Related to this threshold determination would be the more difficult question
of whether the threshold should change depending on the type of crime at issue.
Should a 10% predictive judgment be enough for a murder investigation but not a
drug crime? Should the scale be a sliding one based  [*407]  on risk of harm to
society? n389 Again, going back to first principles, Terry involved a potential
armed robbery. This may be different than a potential shoplifting offense. Risk
assessment mechanisms already exist that use an adjusted actuarial model that
starts with a fixed percentage and then adjusts based on other factors. n390
While not perfectly aligned, this type of model may prove useful in designing a
quantifiable percentage that courts would be comfortable adopting.

   At this early stage of the development of big data, any normative argument
about how statistical precision should be incorporated into a police officer's
calculations will ultimately be unsatisfying. The algorithms do not yet exist
that would project numerical likelihoods. While one could demand a specific
numerical target, we simply do not know how big data technology will be
integrated in everyday policing, nor do we know how data will influence police
officers' discretionary decisions. The focus of this Article is to highlight the
existence of big data policing and, instead of ignoring it or pretending it will
not affect police officers on the street, make courts and scholars aware of the
constitutional concerns.

   2. Precision of Place and Time

 Second, in evaluating big data's influence, courts could focus on the precision
of the data, in terms of place and time, to observe how the data correlate with
the predicted suspicion. Big data's value as a predictive tool involves its
ability to drill down to specific factors that identify a specific person, at a
specific time, at a specific place. Because all predictions might come true at a
certain level of abstraction, big data also poses risks. An officer who sees a
suspect on the street outside the jewelry store and looks up the suspect's
criminal history, which includes several theft convictions, would at one level
have persuasive information to consider in the totality of circumstances. If
after further examination, however, the officer found that the thefts were
exclusively downloading digital music, the data would not support suspicion of a
jewelry store robbery. Or, if the timing of the prior thefts were several years
old or in another state, the correlation might not be strong. Reliance on big
data - because it can provide granular information on particular events or
linkages - should also necessitate a requirement of  [*408]  precision. A
requirement of geospatial and temporal precision would provide some measure of
protection.

   As a related point, if the reasonable suspicion standard incorporated an
"imminence requirement" such that the predicted crime must be imminent or
occurring, the general suspicion created by big data would be limited. Such a
requirement would conflict with Hensley (which allows for reasonable suspicion
of already completed crimes), n391 but would provide a counterweight to the
power of general suspicion of some unstated "criminal activity." Police officers
would need to be able to articulate the particular crime that was imminent based
on the data or be foreclosed from using the information. Grafting on an
imminence requirement could offer more protection within the existing reasonable
suspicion analysis.

   Requiring a heightened level of technological precision is consistent with
general Fourth Amendment principles requiring particularity and
individualization n392 and preventing arbitrary invasions of individual
security. n393 In addition, the availability of big data sources now allows for
this level of specificity. The question for reviewing courts will be whether to
require it. If it were possible to obtain more particularized information from
available sources, and officers choose not to obtain that information instead
relying on generalized data, then judges, like they routinely do with warrants,
could deny the use of generalized data in their reasonable suspicion findings.
Judges will be in the best position to make these decisions, and the more
precision that judges demand, the more incentive there will be for police to
generate precise information to support their suspicion.

   3. Limited Link Analysis

 Finally, predictive suspicion must embrace the cautions arising from link
analysis, which examines the connections between data points. n394 In the
context of criminal activity, link analysis refers to the connections between
criminals and between crimes. Though link analysis can help find matches in
patterns, identify anomalies where known patterns are absent, and discover new
patterns, it remains fundamentally overinclusive. There will  [*409]  always be
links that demonstrate nothing suspicious. Correlations do not prove causation.

   In order to overcome uncertainty in data, analysts have to go beyond direct
links (sometimes several links or "hops" out) and instead look for
approximations in identifying data. This indirectness invites error in
identification. People have the same names. n395 People are related to criminals
without being criminals themselves. People forsake the criminal life. n396 In a
wired world, people are more closely connected than we think. Researchers have
validated the "six degrees of separation" theory in the information age. n397
One study of Facebook users showed that the "average number of acquaintances
separating any two people in the world was not six but 4.74." n398 Thus, a link
analysis that goes out three "hops" can cast a very wide net, accidentally
capturing many people who are only suspicious by this loose, associative
relationship.

   In response, predictive suspicion based on link analysis must demand a
tighter connection between suspects. Courts must not blindly accept
associational suspicion created by an algorithm stretched to link two people.
Instead, the link must be tightly controlled. Currently, no rules govern these
links, but in order to prevent the use of associational correlations to
determine suspicion, some tighter limits must be required.

[*410]

   Conclusion

 The question that opened this Article was "whether a Fourth Amendment stop can
be predicated on the aggregation of specific and individualized, but otherwise
noncriminal, factors." n399 In a big data world, the answer appears to be -
perhaps troublingly - yes, if those particularized factors can be connected to
observed actions. For those who are concerned that the reasonable suspicion
standard has already allowed for overly aggressive policing, discriminatory
policing, and unaccountable policing, this conclusion will only raise the level
of concern. At the same time, more accurate data may well prevent many of the
"rough justice" tactics that are based on class, race, or age profiling and that
have nothing to do with the actual individual involved.

   In either case, the rise of big data is only just beginning. The search for
new data sources and connections has just commenced, and as society's
technological capabilities improve, the law must similarly evolve. Police
officers on patrol in 2015 may not be able to immediately scan a crowd to reveal
identities, but that technology is coming. n400 As with many technological
innovations, the law has lagged behind. The concerns raised in this Article will
soon be addressed by courts forced to confront how to evaluate reasonable
suspicion in a big data world. Perhaps this change will involve new
interpretations of the reasonable suspicion standard, or perhaps courts (or
legislatures) will adopt wholly new legal standards. But, the law will have to
adapt because the current small data reasonable suspicion standard cannot
survive the big data era.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsSearch & SeizureProbable
CauseCriminal Law & ProcedureSearch & SeizureExpectation of PrivacyCriminal Law
& ProcedureSearch & SeizureWarrantless SearchesStop & FriskReasonable Suspicion

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Schall v. Martin, 467 U.S. 253, 278 (1984).





n2.  Herring v. United States, 555 U.S. 135, 155 (2009) (Ginsburg, J.,
dissenting).





n3.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968).





n4.  See, e.g., United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 273 (2002) ("We have said
repeatedly that [courts] must look at the "totality of the circumstances' of
each case to see whether the detaining officer has a "particularized and
objective basis' for suspecting legal wrongdoing.").





n5.  See infra Part I.





n6. " Small data," like "big data," has no set definition. Generally, small data
is thought of as solving discrete questions with limited and structured data,
and the data are generally controlled by one institution. See generally Jules J.
Berman, Principles of Big Data: Preparing, Sharing, and Analyzing Complex
Information 1-2 (2013).





n7.  See generally Julie E. Cohen, What Privacy Is For, 126 Harv. L. Rev. 1904,
1920-21 (2013) (""Big Data' is shorthand for the combination of a technology and
a process. The technology is a configuration of information-processing hardware
capable of sifting, sorting, and interrogating vast quantities of data in very
short times. The process involves mining the data for patterns, distilling the
patterns into predictive analytics, and applying the analytics to new data.
Together, the technology and the process comprise a technique for converting
data flows into a particular, highly data-intensive type of knowledge."); Steve
Lohr, Amid the Flood, A Catchphrase Is Born, N.Y. Times, Aug. 12, 2012, at BU3
[hereinafter Lohr, Amid the Flood] ("Big Data is a shorthand label that
typically means applying the tools of artificial intelligence, like machine
learning, to vast new troves of data beyond that captured in standard
databases.").





n8.  See infra Part II.





n9.  See infra Part II.





n10.  See infra Part II; see also Cop Car with Built-In Face Recognition and
Predictive Policing Wins UK Award, PrivacySOS.org (Apr. 4, 2013, 4:10 PM),
http://privacysos.org/node/1016, archived at http://perma.cc/Y7BA-NTV2
(highlighting an example of technological advances in policing).





n11.  All of this information is available through a National Crime Information
Center (NCIC) search. See National Crime Information Center, FBI,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ncic (last visited Nov. 7, 2014), archived at
http://perma.cc/P3CG-M5HF (explaining resources for finding information about
criminals). This information is further available through police computers
accessible in police cars and in police stations. See National Crime Information
Center Celebrates 40th Birthday, Gov't Tech. (Jan. 22, 2007),
http://www.govtech.com/gt/articles/103437, archived at http://perma.cc/PDL7-JKS6
(discussing how NCIC records have helped law enforcement).





n12.  See infra Part II.





n13.  Local jurisdictions sometimes create their own "most wanted" lists of
locally identified criminals. See, e.g., Most Wanted, L.A. Police Dep't,
http://www.lapdonline.org/most_wanted (last visited Nov. 7, 2014), archived at
http://perma.cc/9P5R-KZRG (showing a local jurisdiction's most wanted list).





n14.  See, e.g., Heather Kelly, Police Embrace Social Media as Crime-Fighting
Tool, CNN (Aug. 30, 2012, 5:23 PM),
http://www.cnn.com/2012/08/30/tech/social-media/fighting-crime-social-media,
archived at http://perma.cc/D2LC-DEH8 (detailing ways police officers use social
media to catch or thwart criminals).





n15.  While this may protect some individuals who are not likely to be involved
in criminal activity, it may also create additional burdens on those who are
predicted to be involved in criminal activity. See infra Part IV.





n16.  See infra Part II.





n17.  See Paul Ohm, Broken Promises of Privacy: Responding to the Surprising
Failure of Anonymization, 57 UCLA L. Rev. 1701, 1716 (2010) (highlighting the
difficulty of protecting the privacy of data subjects by anonymizing data); Paul
M. Schwartz & Daniel J. Solove, The PII Problem: Privacy and a New Concept of
Personally Identifiable Information, 86 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1814, 1877-78 (2011)
(discussing identification of individuals from personally identifiable
information found from data sources); Rebecca J. Rosen, Stanford Researchers: It
Is Trivially Easy to Match Metadata to Real People, Atlantic (Dec. 24, 2013,
1:50 PM),
http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2013/12/stanford-researchers-it-is
-trivially-easy-to-match-metadata-to-real-people/282642/, archived at
http://perma.cc/QFK5-6JUC (explaining the ease with which metadata can be
matched with specific individuals).





n18.  See Daniel J. Steinbock, Data Matching, Data Mining, and Due Process, 40
Ga. L. Rev. 1, 4 (2005) ("Data mining's computerized sifting of personal
characteristics and behaviors (sometimes called "pattern matching') is a more
thorough, regular, and extensive version of criminal profiling, which has become
both more widespread and more controversial in recent years."); Gareth Cook,
Software Helps Police Draw Crime Links, Bos. Globe, July 17, 2003, at A1
(discussing how law enforcement officers are using databases as research tools).





n19.  See infra Part I.





n20.  See William J. Mertens, The Fourth Amendment and the Control of Police
Discretion, 17 U. Mich. J.L. Reform 551, 594-95 (1984) ("The police must be able
to justify singling out from the rest of humanity (or at least from the rest of
the people in the general area) the particular individual whom they have stopped
as somehow meriting this special attention.").





n21.  This assumption is certainly true in large urban police districts,
although it may hold less true for small towns or rural areas. As will be
discussed later, "big data" in some ways turns big city policing into
old-fashioned, small-town policing, with the benefits and drawbacks that come
from that scale of police surveillance.





n22.  See infra Part II.





n23.  See infra Part II.





n24.  See Nina Cope, Intelligence Led Policing or Policing Led Intelligence?, 44
Brit. J. Criminology 188, 191 (2004) (discussing an operational structure for
the organization of intelligence processes in police forces); Stephen Baxter,
Modest Gains in First Six Months of Santa Cruz's Predictive Police Program,
Santa Cruz Sentinel (Feb. 26, 2012, 4:59 PM),
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com/rss/ci_20050377, archived at
http://perma.cc/KPM5-K634 (reporting on the success of a data algorithm used by
the Santa Cruz Police Department); Carrie Kahn, At LAPD, Predicting Crimes
Before They Happen, NPR (Nov. 26, 2011, 6:00 AM),
http://www.npr.org/2011/11/26/142758000/at-lapd-predicting-crimes-before-they-ha
ppen, archived at http://perma.cc/P5JL-ZVWV (discussing how police use data to
predict future crimes); Joel Rubin, Stopping Crime Before It Starts, L.A. Times
(Aug. 21, 2010),
http://articles.latimes.com/2010/aug/21/local/la-me-predictcrime-20100427-1,
archived at http://perma.cc/N223-8J9K (suggesting that predictive policing that
uses sophisticated data systems is the future of law enforcement).





n25.  Cf. Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Crime Mapping and the Fourth Amendment:
Redrawing "High Crime Areas,' 63 Hastings L.J. 179, 225-27 (2011) [hereinafter
Ferguson, Crime Mapping] (discussing issues with recorded crime data).





n26.  Cf. id. at 182 n.11.





n27.  For example, in New York City, every stop-and-frisk is supposed to be
recorded in an official UF-250 police report. See Bernard E. Harcourt & Tracey
L. Meares, Randomization and the Fourth Amendment, 78 U. Chi. L. Rev. 809, 862
n.210 (2011) ("According to the NYPD's Patrol Guide, a police officer who stops
and frisks an individual must complete a UF-250 if a person is (1) stopped by
force; (2) stopped and frisked or searched; (3) arrested; or (4) stopped and
refuses to identify oneself... . In situations that fall outside these four
contexts, a police officer may fill out a form if he or she desires to do so."
(citation omitted)).





n28.  See Stephen D. Mastrofski & James J. Willis, Police Organization
Continuity and Change: Into the Twenty-First Century, in 39 Crime & Justice 55,
88 (Michael Tonry ed., 2010) ("Police now appear to rely more heavily on certain
IT-based forms of surveillance - "database policing' - where officers use
computers to "patrol' massive data files (e.g., wanted lists) looking for "hits'
on information they possess on suspects."); Bryan Llenas, Brave New World of "
Predictive Policing" Raises Specter of High-Tech Racial Profiling, Fox News
Latino (Feb. 25, 2014),
http://latino.foxnews.com/latino/news/2014/02/24/brave-new-world-
predictive-policing-raises-specter-high-tech-racial-profiling/, archived at
http://perma.cc/VG5W-WV93 ("The Chicago Police Department, thanks to federal
funding, is now helping to drive policing into territory previously only dreamed
of in science fiction: The ability to essentially predict who will be the next
perpetrator or the next victim of a crime."); Robert L. Mitchell, Predictive
Policing Gets Personal, Computerworld, (Oct. 24, 2013, 3:50 PM),
http://www.computerworld.com/article/2486424/government-it/predictive-policing
-gets-personal.html, archived at http://perma.cc/GDW5-B8JD ("Predictive policing
is at the top of a lot of people's lists.").





n29.  See Shima Baradaran & Frank L. McIntyre, Predicting Violence, 90 Tex. L.
Rev. 497, 507 (2012) (discussing how the majority of states detain or only
conditionally release defendants determined to be dangerous); Andrew Guthrie
Ferguson, Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion, 62 Emory L.J. 259,
265-69 (2012) [hereinafter Ferguson, Predictive Policing] (providing an overview
of predictive policing).





n30.  See infra Part II.





n31.  See, e.g., Eric Lichtblau, Police Are Using Phone Tracking as Routine
Tool, N.Y. Times, Apr. 1, 2012, at 1.





n32.  Cf., e.g., Charles Duhigg, Psst, You in Aisle 5, N.Y. Times, Feb. 16, 2012
(Magazine), at 30 (discussing retail analytics).





n33.  See, e.g., Ned Potter, Privacy Battles: OnStar Says GM May Record Car's
Use, Even If You Cancel Service, ABC News (Sept. 26, 2011),
http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/onstar-gm-privacy-terms-company-record-car-info
rmation/story?id=14581571, archived at http://perma.cc/VGN2-MJMZ.





n34.  Phone companies record whom we call and even where we are located when we
make those calls. See, e.g., Noam Cohen, It's Tracking Your Every Move, and You
May Not Even Know, N.Y. Times, Mar. 26, 2011, at A1.





n35.  See, e.g., Chloe Albanesius, Facebook: Tracking Your Web Activity Even
After You Log Out?, PC Mag. (Sept. 26, 2011, 11:59 AM),
http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2819,2393564,00.asp, archived at
http://perma.cc/NWP2-DRXN; Robert Epstein, Google's Gotcha, U.S. News & World
Rep. (May 10, 2013, 12:15 PM),
http://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2013/05/10/15-ways-google-monitors-you,
archived at http://perma.cc/94V8-AUSX.





n36.  See generally Noah Shachtman, Exclusive: U.S. Spies Buy Stake in Firm That
Monitors Blogs, Tweets, Wired (Oct. 19, 2009, 12:03 PM),
http://www.wired.com/2009/10/exclusive-us-spies-buy-stake-in-twitter-blog-monito
ring-firm/, archived at http://perma.cc/BZC6-SWAS (highlighting the intelligence
value of social media posts).





n37.  See, e.g., Stephen E. Henderson, Beyond the (Current) Fourth Amendment:
Protecting Third-Party Information, Third Parties, and the Rest of Us Too, 34
Pepp. L. Rev. 975, 982-83 (2007) [hereinafter Henderson, Beyond the (Current)
Fourth Amendment] (exploring the ways in which the third-party doctrine
shortchanges privacy interests); Stephen E. Henderson, Learning from All Fifty
States: How to Apply the Fourth Amendment and Its State Analogs to Protect Third
Party Information from Unreasonable Search, 55 Cath. U. L. Rev. 373, 376-79
(2006) [hereinafter Henderson, Fifty States] (describing the third-party
doctrine); Orin S. Kerr, The Case for the Third-Party Doctrine, 107 Mich. L.
Rev. 561, 563 (2009) (same).





n38.  Erin Murphy, The Politics of Privacy in the Criminal Justice System:
Information Disclosure, the Fourth Amendment, and Statutory Law Enforcement
Exemptions, 111 Mich. L. Rev. 485, 487 & n.2 (2013) ("The United States Code
currently contains over twenty separate statutes that restrict both the
acquisition and release of covered information... . Yet across this remarkable
diversity, there is one feature that all these statutes share in common: each
contains a provision exempting law enforcement from its general terms.").





n39.  See infra Part II.





n40.  See Duhigg, supra note 32, at 30; Rebecca Greenfield, Facebook Now Knows
What You're Buying at Drug Stores, Wire (Sept. 24, 2012, 11:49 AM),
http://www.thewire.com/technology/2012/09/facebook-tracking-you-drug-store-now-t
oo/57183/, archived at http://perma.cc/N5XH-QBA4; William F. Pewen, Protecting
Our Civil Rights in the Era of Digital Health, Atlantic (Aug. 2, 2012, 11:09
AM),
http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2012/08/protecting-our-civil-rights-in
-the-era-of-digital-health/260343/?single_page=true/, archived at
http://perma.cc/8FB6-VERF.





n41.  Mini-plastic bags (e.g., Ziploc bags) are used to package drugs sold on
the street including cocaine, heroin, and marijuana. See United States v.
Dingle, 114 F.3d 307, 309 (D.C. Cir. 1997) ("The government's narcotics expert
testified that crack cocaine is typically packaged in small ziplock bags for
street-level distribution."); United States v. Betts, 16 F.3d 748, 757 (7th Cir.
1994) (noting that pagers and Ziploc baggies are "hallmark paraphernalia" of
drug distribution).





n42.  See infra Part III.





n43.  U.S. Const. amend. IV; Dunaway v. New York, 442 U.S. 200, 213 (1979)
("Hostility to seizures based on mere suspicion was a prime motivation for the
adoption of the Fourth Amendment, and decisions immediately after its adoption
affirmed that "common rumor or report, suspicion, or even "strong reason to
suspect" was not adequate to support a warrant for arrest.'" (citing Henry v.
United States, 361 U.S. 98, 101 (1959))); Almeida-Sanchez v. United States, 413
U.S. 266, 273 (1973) ("The needs of law enforcement stand in constant tension
with the Constitution's protections of the individual against certain exercises
of official power. It is precisely the predictability of these pressures that
counsels a resolute loyalty to constitutional safeguards.").





n44.  See Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 51 (1979) ("A central concern in
balancing these competing considerations in a variety of settings has been to
assure that an individual's reasonable expectation of privacy is not subject to
arbitrary invasions solely at the unfettered discretion of officers in the
field.").





n45.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 21-22 (1968) (articulating the standard and
explaining the rationale behind it); see also United States v. Hensley, 469 U.S.
221, 227 (1985) (highlighting cases where the Court upheld investigatory stops
where police had less than probable cause but nonetheless had reasonable
suspicion that a crime was in progress, would be committed, or had been
committed).





n46.  392 U.S. at 21-22.





n47.  Id. at 5-6.





n48.  Of course, McFadden admitted at the trial level that he had no significant
experience investigating robbery suspects, and the overlay of racial
considerations in a segregated area of downtown Cleveland in the late 1960s
likely contributed to his suspicion. See Thomas B. McAffee, Setting Us Up for
Disaster: The Supreme Court's Decision in Terry v. Ohio, 12 Nev. L.J. 609, 611
n.13 (2012) (discussing the racial context of Cleveland at the time); see also
Terry v. Ohio 30 Years Later: A Symposium on the Fourth Amendment, Law
Enforcement and Police-Citizen Encounters, 72 St. John's L. Rev. 721 app. B, at
1477 (John Q. Barrett ed., 1998) [hereinafter Terry v. Ohio 30 Years Later]
(reporting Detective McFadden's testimony).





n49.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 7-8.





n50.  Id.





n51.  Id.





n52.  Id. at 21.





n53.  See William J. Stuntz, Local Policing After the Terror, 111 Yale L.J.
2137, 2175 (2002) ("The central problem with regulating the manner of street
stops is definition: No one knows how to craft a legal formula that will tell
officers how to behave in advance.").





n54.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 21 (holding that an officer must be able to
identify "specific and articulable facts[,] which ... together with rational
inferences from those facts," establish the reasonable suspicion of criminal
activity required to justify a seizure).





n55.  Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 51 (1979) (noting that police officers must
"have a reasonable suspicion, based on objective facts, that the individual is
involved in criminal activity" to make a investigatory stop); see also id. ("To
this end, the Fourth Amendment requires that a seizure must be based on
specific, objective facts indicating that society's legitimate interests require
the seizure of the particular individual, or that the seizure must be carried
out pursuant to a plan embodying explicit, neutral limitations on the conduct of
individual officers.").





n56.  See United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 270-72 (2002) (noting that
reasonable suspicion must be based on a ""particularized and objective basis'
for suspecting legal wrongdoing" (quoting United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411,
417 (1981))).





n57.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 272 (2000) ("The reasonable suspicion here
at issue requires that a tip be reliable in its assertion of illegality, not
just in its tendency to identify a determinate person."); United States v.
Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417 (1981) ("An investigatory stop must be justified by
some objective manifestation that the person stopped is, or is about to be,
engaged in criminal activity.").





n58.  J.L., 529 U.S. at 271 ("The reasonableness of official suspicion must be
measured by what the officers knew before they conducted their search.").





n59.  See United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 12 (1989) (Marshall, J.,
dissenting) ("It is not enough to suspect that an individual has committed
crimes in the past, harbors unconsummated criminal designs, or has the
propensity to commit crimes. On the contrary, before detaining an individual,
law enforcement officers must reasonably suspect that he is engaged in, or
poised to commit, a criminal act at that moment.").





n60.  See United States v. Hensley, 469 U.S. 221, 227-29 (1985) (upholding a
stop based only on a "wanted flyer" from another police department that named
the suspect).





n61.  See generally Jennifer C. Daskal, Pre-Crime Restraints: The Explosion of
Targeted, Noncustodial Prevention, 99 Cornell L. Rev. 327, 335-357 (2014)
(discussing restraints that target yet-uncommitted crime, like the No-Fly List
and Megan's Laws).





n62.  See Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) (explaining that reasonable
suspicion depends on the totality of the circumstances); Sokolow, 490 U.S. at
7-8 ("The concept of reasonable suspicion, like probable cause, is not "readily,
or even usefully, reduced to a neat set of legal rules.' ... In evaluating the
validity of a stop such as this, we must consider "the totality of the
circumstances - the whole picture.'" (quoting Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213,
232 (1983); Cortez, 449 U.S. at 417)).





n63.  White, 496 U.S. at 330 ("Reasonable suspicion, like probable cause, is
dependent upon both the content of information possessed by police and its
degree of reliability. Both factors - quantity and quality - are considered in
the "totality of the circumstances - the whole picture,' that must be taken into
account when evaluating whether there is reasonable suspicion." (citation
omitted) (quoting Cortez, 449 U.S. at 417)).





n64.  See, e.g., Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123 (2000) ("While
"reasonable suspicion' is a less demanding standard than probable cause and
requires a showing considerably less than preponderance of the evidence, the
Fourth Amendment requires at least a minimal level of objective justification
for making the stop.").





n65.  See, e.g., United States v. Mendenhall, 446 U.S. 544, 563 (1980) ("Among
the circumstances that can give rise to reasonable suspicion are the agent's
knowledge of the methods used in recent criminal activity and the
characteristics of persons engaged in such illegal practices.").





n66.  Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690, 695 (1996) (quoting Gates, 462
U.S. at 231).





n67.  See, e.g., David A. Harris, Frisking Every Suspect: The Withering of
Terry, 28 U.C. Davis L. Rev. 1, 5 n.18 (1994) (noting that for certain minority
groups, reasonable suspicion seems to include even benign conduct); David A.
Harris, Particularized Suspicion, Categorical Judgments: Supreme Court Rhetoric
Versus Lower Court Reality Under Terry v. Ohio, 72 St. John's L. Rev. 975, 1022
(1998) (arguing that the reasonable suspicion standard has led to targeting of
minorities for stops almost at will); Lewis R. Katz, Terry v. Ohio at
Thirty-Five: A Revisionist's View, 74 Miss. L.J. 423, 493 (2004) ("In ... the
inner city, the possibility of criminal activity is so substantial as to make
everyone in the area subject to police inquiry."); Christopher Slobogin, Let's
Not Bury Terry: A Call for Rejuvenation of the Proportionality Principle, 72 St.
John's L. Rev. 1053, 1081 (1998) (calling reasonable suspicion jurisprudence "a
mess").





n68.  For example, the "high crime area" nature of a neighborhood has been
accepted as a contextual factor that may affect reasonable suspicion. See, e.g.,
Andrew Guthrie Ferguson & Damien Bernache, The "High Crime Area" Question:
Requiring Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth Amendment Reasonable
Suspicion Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1609-18 (2008) ("What is termed a
"high-crime area' can differ from case to case, and jurisdiction to
jurisdiction."); Margaret Raymond, Down on the Corner, Out in the Street:
Considering the Character of the Neighborhood in Evaluating Reasonable
Suspicion, 60 Ohio St. L.J. 99, 120-22 (1999) ("Standing on a street corner may
create reasonable suspicion in Louisiana, but not in Pennsylvania ... .").





n69.  See, e.g., United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 268-72 (2002) (involving
an unknown driver stopped on suspicion of drug trafficking); United States v.
Sharpe, 470 U.S. 675, 677-78 (1985) (same); Florida v. Rodriguez, 469 U.S. 1,
2-4 (1984) (per curiam) (involving unknown suspects stopped because of
suspicious and furtive movements in an airport); Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491,
493 (1983) (involving an unknown traveler stopped in an airport because his
actions fit a "drug courier profile"); United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U.S.
873, 875 (1975) (involving unknown suspects believed to be in the country
unlawfully); Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144-45 (1972) (involving an
unknown suspect stopped based on an informant's tip that the suspect was armed).





n70.  Specifically, suspects personally unknown to the officer.





n71.  See Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 49 (1979) (involving an unknown suspect
stopped in an alley in a neighborhood known for drug trafficking); see also
Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 121 (2000) (involving a stop of an unknown
suspect who fled on foot after seeing police in a Chicago neighborhood known for
drug trafficking); California v. Hodari D., 499 U.S. 621, 622-23 (1991)
(involving a chase of unknown juvenile suspects who fled on foot after seeing
police).





n72.  See, e.g., Bailey v. United States, 133 S. Ct. 1031, 1036 (2013)
(involving the stop of an automobile occupied by unknown suspects who had just
left an apartment for which the police had obtained a search warrant); Arizona
v. Johnson, 555 U.S. 323, 327 (2009) (involving a traffic stop for suspended
vehicle registration); Brendlin v. California, 551 U.S. 249, 252 (2007)
(involving a traffic stop stemming from vehicle registration concerns); Illinois
v. Caballes, 543 U.S. 405, 406 (2005) (involving a traffic stop for speeding);
Knowles v. Iowa, 525 U.S. 113, 114 (1998) (same); Ohio v. Robinette, 519 U.S.
33, 35 (1996) (same); New York v. Class, 475 U.S. 106, 107-08 (1986) (involving
a traffic stop of an unknown suspect for speeding and driving with a cracked
windshield).





n73.  392 U.S. 40 (1968).





n74.  Id. at 45 ("Officer Martin testified that while he was patrolling his beat
in uniform on March 9, 1965, he observed Sibron "continually from the hours of
4:00 P.M. to 12:00, midnight ... in the vicinity of 742 Broadway.' He stated
that during this period of time he saw Sibron in conversation with six or eight
persons whom he (Patrolman Martin) knew from past experience to be narcotics
addicts. The officer testified that he did not overhear any of these
conversations, and that he did not see anything pass between Sibron and any of
the others. Late in the evening Sibron entered a restaurant. Patrolman Martin
saw Sibron speak with three more known addicts inside the restaurant. Once
again, nothing was overheard and nothing was seen to pass between Sibron and the
addicts. Sibron sat down and ordered pie and coffee, and, as he was eating,
Patrolman Martin approached him and told him to come outside. Once outside, the
officer said to Sibron, "You know what I am after.' According to the officer,
Sibron "mumbled something and reached into his pocket.' Simultaneously,
Patrolman Martin thrust his hand into the same pocket, discovering several
glassine envelopes, which, it turned out, contained heroin." (alteration in
original)).





n75.  Id.





n76.  Id.





n77.  Id. at 64. Because Sibron was decided on the same day as Terry, there is
some debate about whether the Court found the search unconstitutional because
the officer lacked probable cause to search or because the police lacked
reasonable suspicion to stop-and-frisk. The majority opinion echoed the
reasonable suspicion language in Terry without specifically using the term. "The
inference that persons who talk to narcotics addicts are engaged in the criminal
traffic in narcotics is simply not the sort of reasonable inference required to
support an intrusion by the police upon an individual's personal security." Id.
at 62. Justice Harlan more explicitly referenced the Terry standard in his
concurrence. "The forcible encounter between Officer Martin and Sibron did not
meet the Terry reasonableness standard. In the first place, although association
with known criminals may, I think, properly be a factor contributing to the
suspiciousness of circumstances, it does not, entirely by itself, create
suspicion adequate to support a stop." Id. at 73 (Harlan, J., concurring).





n78.  Id. at 62 ("The officer was not acquainted with Sibron and had no
information concerning him. He merely saw Sibron talking to a number of known
narcotics addicts over a period of eight hours. It must be emphasized that
Patrolman Martin was completely ignorant regarding the content of these
conversations, and that he saw nothing pass between Sibron and the addicts. So
far as he knew, they might indeed "have been talking about the World Series.'").





n79.  See United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 7 (1989) ("Police can stop and
briefly detain a person for investigative purposes if the officer has a
reasonable suspicion supported by articulable facts that criminal activity "may
be afoot,' even if the officer lacks probable cause.").





n80.  See, e.g., Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial Dist. Court of Nev., 542 U.S. 177,
180-81 (2004) (involving a telephone tip that provided reasonable suspicion to
investigate a domestic violence case).





n81.  529 U.S. 266, 268 (2000).





n82.  Id. at 268-69.





n83.  Id. at 270 ("Unlike a tip from a known informant whose reputation can be
assessed and who can be held responsible if her allegations turn out to be
fabricated, ... "an anonymous tip alone seldom demonstrates the informant's
basis of knowledge or veracity.'" (quoting Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 329
(1990))).





n84.  496 U.S. at 331-32.





n85.  Id. at 327.





n86.  Id.





n87.  Id.





n88.  Id. at 332.





n89.  Compare id. ("Although it is a close case, we conclude that under the
totality of the circumstances the anonymous tip, as corroborated, exhibited
sufficient indicia of reliability to justify the investigatory stop of
respondent's car."), and Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 270 (2000) ("Only after
police observation showed that the informant had accurately predicted the
woman's movements, we explained, did it become reasonable to think the tipster
had inside knowledge about the suspect and therefore to credit his assertion
about the cocaine."), with id. at 271 ("The anonymous call concerning J.L.
provided no predictive information and therefore left the police without means
to test the informant's knowledge or credibility.").





n90.  See White, 496 U.S. at 332.





n91.  517 U.S. 690 (1996).





n92.  Id. at 692.





n93.  Id. at 691-92.





n94.  Id. at 692.





n95.  Id.





n96.  Id.





n97.  Id. at 694.





n98.  See United States v. Ornelas, No. 94-3349, 1996 WL 508569, at 1 (7th Cir.
Sept. 4, 1996). The Seventh Circuit, however, raised concerns with the accuracy
and use of the information. See United States v. Ornelas-Ledesma, 16 F.3d 714,
716-17 (7th Cir. 1994) ("Clearly, were it not for the NADDIS hits, the officers
would not have had grounds for reasonable suspicion that the defendants were
drug traffickers. Not only is every circumstance on which the officers relied
other than the hits innocent taken by itself - many Americans (approximately one
in eight) are Californians, many Californians are Hispanic, many Americans drive
two-door General Motors cars, many people check into motels very late at night
(or early in the morning), many travel in pairs rather than alone, and many do
not make advance reservations - but the confluence of these circumstances is
pretty innocuous as well, especially since many of the circumstances are
correlated rather than independent."); see also id. at 717 ("Maybe NADDIS is no
better than a vast compendium of rumors, errors, and libels: garbage in, garbage
out. That seems unlikely. It would not be heavily used by drug enforcement
authorities if it were merely a random sample of the American population. Which
is not to say, however, that it is highly reliable; concern that it may not be
is heightened by the (scanty) secondary literature, which depicts NADDIS as an
unselective, unweeded repository of unsubstantiated allegations, often dated.").





n99.  See Ornelas, 517 U.S. at 692.





n100.  See, e.g., United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 4 (1989) (recounting an
incident where an airline ticket agent informed police of a passenger's
suspicious behavior, police determined that the name the suspect had given the
ticket agent did not match phone records but that the suspect's voice appeared
on the answering machine connected to the phone number the suspect provided);
United States v. Montoya de Hernandez, 473 U.S. 531, 533 (1985) (describing
details giving rise to reasonable suspicion by customs officers, including the
suspect's eight prior trips to Miami or Los Angeles, possession of $ 5000 in
cash, and lack of specific plans for her stay in the United States); id. at 542
("The facts, and their rational inferences, known to customs inspectors in this
case clearly supported a reasonable suspicion that respondent was an alimentary
canal smuggler. We need not belabor the facts, including respondent's
implausible story, that supported this suspicion. The trained customs inspectors
had encountered many alimentary canal smugglers and certainly had more than an
"inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or "hunch,"' that respondent was
smuggling narcotics in her alimentary canal." (citations omitted) (quoting Terry
v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968)).





n101.  469 U.S. 221, 223 (1985) (addressing whether a stop based only on a
"wanted flyer" from another jurisdiction runs afoul of the Fourth Amendment);
see also Minnesota v. Dickerson, 508 U.S. 366, 368 (1993) (discussing the stop
of an unknown suspect based on detective's knowledge that the building was a
notorious "crack house").





n102.  Hensley, 469 U.S. at 223.





n103.  Id. at 225.





n104.  See id. at 225.





n105.  Id. at 223.





n106.  Id. at 223-25.





n107.  Id. at 229.





n108.  Id. This recognition is also implicit (albeit grounded in a different
rationale) in the Court's decisions involving the Fourth Amendment rights of
probationers and individuals on parole who were stopped because their probation
or parole officers knew they had prior criminal charges. See, e.g., Samson v.
California, 547 U.S. 843, 846 (2006) ("Officer Alex Rohleder of the San Bruno
Police Department observed petitioner walking down a street with a woman and a
child. Based on a prior contact with petitioner, Officer Rohleder was aware that
petitioner was on parole and believed that he was facing an at-large warrant.
Accordingly, Officer Rohleder stopped petitioner and asked him whether he had an
outstanding parole warrant."); United States v. Knights, 534 U.S. 112, 115
(2001) ("Detective Hancock decided to conduct a search of Knights' apartment.
Detective Hancock was aware of the search condition in Knights' probation order
and thus believed that a warrant was not necessary.").





n109.  United States v. Feliciano, 45 F.3d 1070, 1074 (7th Cir. 1995).





n110.  See, e.g., Roe v. Att'y Gen., 750 N.E.2d 897, 914 (Mass. 2001) ("A
person's prior criminal record is a legitimate factor to consider in determining
whether there is reasonable suspicion for a stop or probable cause for a search
or an arrest."); Commonwealth v. Dasilva, 849 N.E.2d 249, 253 (Mass. App. Ct.
2006) (allowing police knowledge of a suspect's criminal record to be considered
in the reasonable suspicion evaluation); Commonwealth v. Calderon, 681 N.E.2d
1246, 1248 (Mass. App. Ct. 1997) (indicating that knowledge of defendant's
criminal history can be factored into reasonable suspicion determination).





n111.  See, e.g., State v. Gilchrist, 299 N.W.2d 913, 916 (Minn. 1980)
(confirming that knowledge of a suspect's potential involvement in a homicide
and in a firearms-related incident can contribute to reasonable suspicion);
State v. Bellikka, 490 N.W.2d 660, 663 (Minn. Ct. App. 1992) (holding that an
officer's knowledge that a suspect had a history of burglary offenses
strengthened the officer's reasonable suspicion that the suspect was involved in
a recent burglary); State v. Munoz, 385 N.W.2d 373, 376 (Minn. Ct. App. 1986)
(finding the officer's knowledge of the suspect's prior drug deals, possession
of guns, and previous felony convictions corroborated a tip that the suspect was
selling methamphetamine).





n112.  See State v. Spillner, 173 P.3d 498, 507 (Haw. 2007) ("Although we have
already emphasized that a person's prior history of drug arrests is insufficient
to establish probable cause, awareness of past arrests may, when combined with
other specific articulable facts indicating the probability of current criminal
activity, factor into a determination that reasonable suspicion, sufficient to
warrant a temporary investigate stop, exists." (quoting State v. Kaleohano, 56
P.3d 138, 148 (Haw. 2002))).





n113.  See, e.g., In re J.T., 678 S.E.2d 111, 114 (Ga. Ct. App. 2009) ("Because
of their prior contact with J.T., the officers knew that J.T. was enrolled in
and supposed to be attending school on the date and time in question. The
officers therefore had a reasonable, particularized and objective basis for
suspecting that J.T. was truant and were consequently justified in stopping him
in order to determine why he was not attending school."); State v. Valentine,
636 A.2d 505, 510-11 (N.J. 1994) ("Moreover, a police officer's knowledge of a
suspect's criminal history, especially where that history involves weapons
offenses, is a relevant factor in judging the reasonableness of a Terry frisk.
Although an officer's knowledge of a suspect's criminal history alone is not
sufficient to justify the initial stop of a suspect or to justify a frisk of a
suspect once stopped, an officer's knowledge of a suspect's prior criminal
activity in combination with other factors may lead to a reasonable suspicion
that the suspect is armed and dangerous.").





n114.  Dasilva, 849 N.E.2d at 253.





n115.  See, e.g., United States v. Laughrin, 438 F.3d 1245, 1247 (10th Cir.
2006) (emphasizing that prior criminal involvement alone is insufficient to
establish reasonable suspicion); Spillner, 173 P.3d at 506 ("The danger of "the
unbridled discretion of law enforcement officials,' also prohibits law
enforcement from basing a stop solely on an officer's knowledge of a particular
citizen's criminal background ... ." (citation omitted) (quoting Delaware v.
Prouse, 440 U.S. 648, 661 (1979))).





n116.  See, e.g., Robinson v. State, 388 So.2d 286, 290 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
1980) ("We hold that an officer's knowledge of a suspect's previous arrest,
standing alone, is insufficient to give rise to a reasonable suspicion that a
crime may have been or is being committed in order to justify a lawful
investigatory stop.").





n117.  Spillner, 173 P.3d at 506 (quoting United States v. Sandoval, 29 F.3d
537, 542-43 (10th Cir. 1994)).





n118.  See Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690, 692-93, 700 (1996) (remanding
the case for de novo review of the district court's determination that the
officer had reasonable suspicion and probable cause).





n119.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 327 (1990).





n120.  See infra Part IV; see also, e.g., Mike McIntire, Ensnared by Error on
Growing U.S. Watch List, With No Way Out, N.Y. Times, Apr. 7, 2010, at A1
(describing the difficulty of correcting mistakes on the no fly list and
identifying the correct targets to include); Ellen Nakashima, Terrorism Watch
List Is Faulted for Errors, Wash. Post, Sept. 7, 2007, at A12 (explaining
problems with the accuracy of government watchlists).





n121.  See infra Part IV; see also Joshua D. Wright, The Constitutional Failure
of Gang Databases, 2 Stan. J. C.R. & C.L. 115, 118 (2005) ("Evidence suggests
that those operating the databases are not capable of ensuring that non-gang
members do not find themselves documented and trapped in the database system.").





n122.  See Lohr, Amid the Flood, supra note 7, at BU3 ("Big Data is a shorthand
label that typically means applying the tools of artificial intelligence, like
machine learning, to vast new troves of data beyond that captured in standard
databases."); Steve Lohr, Sizing Up Big Data, Broadening Beyond the Internet,
N.Y. Times, June 20, 2013, at F1 [hereinafter Lohr, Sizing Up Big Data] ("Big
Data is the shorthand label for the phenomenon, which embraces technology,
decision-making and public policy... . Big Data is a vague term, used loosely,
if often, these days. But put simply, the catchall phrase means three things.
First, it is a bundle of technologies. Second, it is a potential revolution in
measurement. And third, it is a point of view, or philosophy, about how
decisions will be - and perhaps should be - made in the future.").





n123.  See I. Bennett Capers, Crime, Surveillance, and Communities, 40 Fordham
Urb. L.J. 959, 962 (2013) ("Chicago's Operation Virtual Shield includes at least
2,250 cameras, 250 of which have biometric technology."); Wayne A. Logan,
Policing Identity, 92 B.U. L. Rev. 1561, 1575 n.91 (2012) (""Biometrics' refers
either to biological or physiological characteristics usable for automatic
recognition of individuals on the basis of such characteristics.").





n124.  See infra subsection II.B.3.





n125.  See infra Section II.B.





n126.  See infra Section II.C.





n127.  See Ferguson, Predictive Policing, supra note 29, at 266-67 (describing
predictive policing strategies that identify the locations of potential crimes).





n128.  See Richard Berk, Balancing the Costs of Forecasting Errors in Parole
Decisions, 74 Alb. L. Rev. 1071, 1074 (2010/2011) (discussing the use of
historical data to identify future offenders); Nadya Labi, Misfortune Teller,
Atlantic, Jan.-Feb. 2012, at 18-19 (discussing Professor Richard Berk's work to
predict the recidivism risk of parolees in Pennsylvania).





n129.  See James Manyika et al., McKinsey Global Inst., Big Data: The Next
Frontier for Innovation, Competition, and Productivity 1 (2011), available at
http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/business_technology/big_data_the_next_frontier_
for_innovation (""Big data' refers to datasets whose size is beyond the ability
of typical database software tools to capture, store, manage, and analyze. This
definition is intentionally subjective and incorporates a moving definition of
how big a dataset needs to be in order to be considered big data - i.e., we
don't define big data in terms of being larger than a certain number of
terabytes (thousands of gigabytes). We assume that, as technology advances over
time, the size of datasets that qualify as big data will also increase.").





n130.  See Lohr, Amid the Flood, supra note 7, at BU3 (describing the
development and meaning of the term "Big Data"); Data, Data Everywhere,
Economist (Feb. 25, 2010), http://www.economist.com/node/15557443/, archived at
http://perma.cc/EJ3F-FDHF (noting the expansion of data collection in a variety
of fields, including science, retail, and social media).





n131.  See Manyika et al., supra note 129, at 5 (describing the general benefits
of big data as improving transparency, facilitating experimentation, improving
performance, segmenting audiences, automating decisionmaking, and enabling
innovation); Lohr, Sizing Up Big Data, supra note 122, at F1 ("The bundle of
technologies is partly all the old and new sources of data - Web pages, browsing
habits, sensor signals, social media, GPS location data from smartphones,
genomic information and surveillance videos.").





n132.  See Viktor Mayer-Schonberger & Kenneth Cukier, Big Data: A Revolution
That Will Transform How We Live, Work, and Think 2 (2013).





n133.  Id. at 6.





n134.  See Berman, supra note 6, at xv, xx.





n135.  Id.





n136.  Id.





n137.  Id.





n138.  Similarly, concerns about growing data collection techniques are not new
either. See Raymond Shih Ray Ku, The Founders' Privacy: The Fourth Amendment and
the Power of Technological Surveillance, 86 Minn. L. Rev. 1325, 1336 (2002)
(discussing case law on the scope of constitutional privacy protections);
Christopher Slobogin, Government Data Mining and the Fourth Amendment, 75 U.
Chi. L. Rev. 317, 322-23 (2008) [hereinafter Slobogin, Government Data Mining]
(discussing types of government data mining); Christopher Slobogin, Transaction
Surveillance by the Government, 75 Miss. L.J. 139, 167-82 (2005) [hereinafter
Slobogin, Transaction Surveillance] (outlining a potential regulatory structure
for government surveillance of transactions); Daniel J. Solove, Access and
Aggregation: Public Records, Privacy and the Constitution, 86 Minn. L. Rev.
1137, 1139-40 (2002) (describing the history of data collection by all levels of
government and the accompanying privacy concerns); Matthew Tokson, Automation
and the Fourth Amendment, 96 Iowa L. Rev. 581, 638-39 (2011) (worrying that
Fourth Amendment law addressing letters and telephone calls is not well-suited
to protect Internet communications).





n139.  See Daniel J. Steinbock, Designating the Dangerous: From Blacklists to
Watch Lists, 30 Seattle U. L. Rev. 65, 69-77 (2006) (explaining the growth of
government data collection to attempt to identify communists in the 1950s).





n140.  See Joshua Gruenspecht, "Reasonable" Grand Jury Subpoenas: Asking for
Information in the Age of Big Data, 24 Harv. J.L. & Tech. 543, 548-49 (2011)
("The increasing speed of network connections has also made possible the
consolidation of computing resources and associated digital stores - a
transition popularly known as the move to "cloud computing.' When combined with
the rapidly declining price of storage and the economies of scale gained from
consolidating both storage and processing, the increase in network speed made it
economically advantageous to store information in remote, massive data centers."
(footnote omitted)); Omer Tene & Jules Polonetsky, Big Data for All: Privacy and
User Control in the Age of Analytics, 11 Nw. J. Tech. & Intell. Prop. 239, 240
(2013) ("Big data is upon us. Over the past few years, the volume of data
collected and stored by business and government organizations has exploded. The
trend is driven by reduced costs of storing information and moving it around in
conjunction with increased capacity to instantly analyze heaps of unstructured
data using modern experimental methods, observational and longitudinal studies,
and large scale simulations." (footnotes omitted)).





n141.  Lohr, Sizing Up Big Data, supra note 122, at F1.





n142.  Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 132, at 9.





n143.  Daniel J. Solove, Digital Dossiers and the Dissipation of Fourth
Amendment Privacy, 75 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1083, 1089 (2002); see also James Jacobs &
Tamara Crepet, The Expanding Scope, Use, and Availability of Criminal Records,
11 N.Y.U. J. Legis. & Pub. Pol'y 177, 181-82 (2008) (describing an FBI database
upgrade that will give law enforcement access to "offenders' identities (name,
photo, fingerprint) and the states where their rap sheets can be obtained"
(footnote omitted)).





n144.  See Nicolas P. Terry, Protecting Patient Privacy in the Age of Big Data,
81 UMKC L. Rev. 385, 389 (2012) ("Big data is closely linked both literally and
by its scale to the massive datasets compiled by well know [sic] data
aggregators such as ChoicePoint or Acxiom. Those datasets often start by
aggregating large (but not "big") structured sets created by state, federal, and
local governments, law enforcement, and financial institutions amongst others.
Acxiom is reported to hold data on five-hundred million consumers with an
average of 1500 data points per data subject." (footnotes omitted)); Janet Dean
Gertz, Comment, The Purloined Personality: Consumer Profiling in Financial
Services, 39 San Diego L. Rev. 943, 944-945 (2002) (highlighting the amount of
information that financial transaction data exposes, including where a person
lives and works).





n145.  Lior Jacob Strahilevitz, Reputation Nation: Law in an Era of Ubiquitous
Personal Information, 102 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1667, 1720 (2008) ("In many instances,
the government has the best access to information that decisionmakers will want
to use. Criminal records, bankruptcy records, military service records,
immigration and naturalization records, academic records from public schools or
state-run universities, or records regarding membership in licensed professions
are obvious examples."); Terry, supra note 144, at 389-90 ("Increasingly and of
considerable importance going forward, big data comes from less structured
sources including "web-browsing data trails, social network communications,
sensor data and surveillance data.' Much of it is "exhaust data,' or data
created unintentionally as a byproduct of social networks, web searches,
smartphones, and other online behaviors." (alteration in original) (footnotes
omitted) (quoting Lohr, Amid the Flood, supra note 7)).





n146.  See Barton Gellman & Laura Poitras, U.S. Mines Internet Firms' Data,
Documents Show, Wash. Post, June 7, 2013, at A1; see also Barton Gellman &
Ashkan Soltani, NSA Taps Yahoo, Google Links, Wash. Post, Oct. 31, 2013, at A1;
Siobhan Gorman & Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, NSA Reaches Deep into U.S. to Spy
on Net, Wall St. J., Aug. 21, 2013, at A1; Carol D. Leonnig, Ellen Nakashima &
Barton Gellman, Judge Defends Role in Spying, Wash. Post, June 30, 2013, at A1;
Ellen Nakashima & Joby Warrick, NSA Chief's Methods Fuel Debate on Privacy,
Wash. Post, July 15, 2013, at A1; James Risen & Laura Poitras, N.S.A. Examines
Social Networks of U.S. Citizens, N.Y. Times, Sept. 29, 2013, at A1; James
Risen, Report Indicates More Extensive Cooperation by Microsoft on Surveillance,
N.Y. Times, July 11, 2013, at A14; Shira Ovide, U.S. Official Releases Details
of Prism Program, Wall St. J. (June 8, 2013, 6:28 PM),
http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424127887324299104578533802289432458,
archived at http://perma.cc/98BU-Q9NU.





n147.  See Ovide, supra note 146; see also Leslie Cauley, NSA Has Massive
Database of Americans' Phone Calls, USA Today, May 11, 2006, at 1A; Dionne
Searcey & Anne Marie Squeo, More Phone Firms Fight Claims They Supplied Call
Data to NSA, Wall St. J., May 17, 2006, at A3.





n148.  See Dahlia Lithwick & Steve Vladeck, Taking the "Meh" out of Metadata,
Slate (Nov. 22, 2013),
http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/jurisprudence/2013/11/nsa_and_me
tadata_how_the_government_can_spy_on_your_health_political_beliefs.html,
archived at http://perma.cc/6PSC-5FF6 (noting also that "by analyzing the
metadata of every American across a span of years, the NSA could learn almost as
much about our health, our habits, our politics, and our relationships as it
could by eavesdropping on our calls"); cf. Brian X. Chen, Using E-Mail Data to
Connect the Dots of Your Life, N.Y. Times (July 5, 2013),
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/07/05/using-e-mail-data-to-connect-the-dots-o
f-your-life, archived at http://perma.cc/JHC4-Q5AN (describing how metadata
programs can identify a network of contacts through linking past email
contacts). Ordinary mail is also tracked in a similar way. See Ron Nixon, Postal
Service Is Watching Too: Outside of All Mail Is Recorded, N.Y. Times, July 4,
2013, at A1 (detailing the "Mail Isolation Control and Tracking program, in
which Postal Service computers photograph the exterior of every piece of paper
mail that is processed in the United States - about 160 billion pieces last
year").





n149.  See Matt Richtel, Live Tracking of Mobile Phones Prompts Court Fights on
Privacy, N.Y. Times, Dec. 10, 2005, at A1.





n150.  Andrea Peterson, Your Location History Is Like a Fingerprint. And Cops
Can Get it Without a Warrant, Wash. Post (July 31, 2013),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2013/07/31/your-location-histo
ry-is-like-a-fingerprint-and-cops-can-get-it-without-a-warrant, archived at
http://perma.cc/33GH-NMFQ (quoting Jeff Jonas, IBM Fellow and Chief Scientist,
IBM Entity Analytics Grp.).





n151.  Cf. Manyika et al., supra note 129, at 85 ("As the number of people using
mobile phones has increased, the use of cell-tower signals to triangulate the
location of such devices has become increasingly common. This technology has the
potential to identify the location of the owners of almost 5 billion
globally."); Hayley Tsukayama, Alarm on Hill over iPhone Location Tracking,
Wash. Post, Apr. 22, 2011, at A13; Troy Wolverton, iSpy: Apple's iPhones Can
Track Users' Movements, San Jose Mercury News (Apr. 21, 2011, 11:22 AM),
http://www.mercurynews.com/ci_17893676, archived at http://perma.cc/9X26-TKRP.





n152.  See Robert Block, Requests for Corporate Data Multiply: Businesses Juggle
Law-Enforcement Demands for Information About Customers, Suppliers, Wall St. J.,
(May 20, 2006, 11:59 PM), http://online.wsj.com/articles/SB114808152438358490,
archived at http://perma.cc/KPH-3FKR; John Kelly, Cellphone Data Spying: It's
Not Just the NSA, USA Today (June 13, 2014, 2:40 PM),
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2013/12/08/cellphone-data-spying-nsa-p
olice/3902809/, archived at http://perma.cc/76RX-FYE3; Matt Sledge, Cops Asked
for Cell Phone Data More than 1 Million Times Last Year, Huffington Post (Dec.
9, 2013, 3:55 PM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/12/09/cell-phone-data-requests_n_4414059.html
, archived at http://perma.cc/48V6-C63D ("The data requests, which can be made
by everyone from local cops to the FBI, are facilitated by a 1986 law called the
Electronic Communications Privacy Act, which in many cases allows data content
to be accessed on the simple say-so of law enforcement, without a warrant.");
Bob Sullivan, Who's Buying Cell Phone Records Online? Cops, NBC News (June 20,
2006, 11:59 AM), http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/12534959/, archived at
http://perma.cc/K7T4-RWA4. As will be discussed later, this information is
available to police if necessary for an investigation. See 18 U.S.C. § 2703(f)
(2012).





n153.  See Manyika et al., supra note 129, at 86 ("A combination of navigation
devices, cell-tower tracking, and smartphones accounts for the majority of
personal location data today... . Smartphones are a huge and fast-growing source
of these data because the majority of users use applications that require their
locations to be tracked."); see also id. at 90-91 (explaining geo-targeted
advertising); cf. Brian X. Chen, iPhone Tracks Your Every Move, and There's a
Map for That, Wired (Apr. 20, 2011, 1:30 PM),
http://www.wired.com/2011/04/iphone-tracks/, archived at
http://perma.cc/Z93G-57GZ.





n154.  Stephen Rushin, The Judicial Response to Mass Police Surveillance, 2011
U. Ill. J.L. Tech. & Pol'y 281, 286 ("ALPR [automatic license plate recognition]
systems not only flag passing cars that match a criminal database, but they also
record the exact time and location of all passing cars into a searchable
database, whether or not there is any evidence of wrongdoing. This data can be
kept on file indefinitely. In communities with extensive, integrated networks of
ALPR cameras, this could potentially amount to mass surveillance of an entire
community." (footnotes omitted)); Martin Kaste, Police May Know Exactly Where
You Were Last Tuesday, NPR (July 17, 2013, 10:00 AM),
http://www.npr.org/blogs/alltechconsidered/2013/07/16/202801282/police-may-know-
exactly-where-you-were-last-tuesday, archived at http://perma.cc/T4NX-M7NC.





n155.  See United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 963 (2012) (Alito, J.,
concurring in the judgment) ("Automatic toll collection systems create a precise
record of the movements of motorists ... .").





n156.  See, e.g., Christopher Slobogin, Public Privacy: Camera Surveillance of
Public Places and the Right to Anonymity, 72 Miss. L.J. 213, 221 (2002)
(highlighting the increase in government surveillance of public places).





n157.  See, e.g., Associated Press, Evidence From Black Boxes in Cars Turns Up
in Courts, Fox News (June 28, 2003),
http://www.foxnews.com/story/2003/06/28/evidence-from-black-boxes-in-cars-turns-
up-in-courts/, archived at http://perma.cc/52K7-BPZP (explaining that many cars
have "black boxes" that record driving behavior); Bob Gritzinger, Under the
Hood, with Big Brother, Autoweek (Nov. 7, 2004),
http://autoweek.com/article/car-news/under-hood-big-brother-forget-orwells-19842
0-years-later-its-our-cars-are-giving-us, archived at http://perma.cc/9M7M-TU3W
(same).





n158.  See Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 948 (describing use of a GPS-tracking device by
police).





n159.  Kim Zetter, Public Buses Across Country Quietly Adding Microphones to
Record Passenger Conversations, Wired (Dec. 10, 2012, 4:46 PM),
http://www.wired.com/2012/12/public-bus-audio-surveillance/, archived at
http://perma.cc/8YM2-246Z.





n160.  In addition, the police have created software to spy on particular
individuals' Internet histories. See Craig Timberg & Ellen Nakashima, FBI Uses
Malware to Gather Data on Suspects, Wash. Post, Dec. 7, 2012, at A1 ("High-tech
search tools, which the FBI calls "network investigative techniques,' have been
used when authorities struggle to track suspects who are adept at covering their
tracks online. The most powerful FBI surveillance software can covertly download
files, photographs and stored e-mails, or even gather real-time images by
activating cameras connected to computers, say court documents and people
familiar with this technology.").





n161.  As one commentator put it:



   The accumulation of a citizen's email, documents, voicemails, phone logs,
records, photos, and even location by Google rivals and perhaps exceeds the data
gathering capabilities of traditional law enforcement methods... .



The synthesis of data from a user's web search history coupled with email,
photos, documents, voicemails, phone logs, and location, creates a profile of an
individual that serves as behavior modeling for advertisers. This same data
could just as easily be disclosed to law enforcement officials for criminal
profiling.

 Andrew William Bagley, Don't Be Evil: The Fourth Amendment in the Age of
Google, National Security, and Digital Papers and Effects, 21 Alb. L.J. Sci. &
Tech. 153, 163-64 (2011).





n162.  Candice L. Kline, Comment, Security Theater and Database-Driven
Information Markets: A Case for an Omnibus U.S. Data Privacy Statute, 39 U. Tol.
L. Rev. 443, 447 (2008) ("A byproduct of enhanced technological capabilities is
the ease with which data can be populated, aggregated, and exchanged across an
increasingly diverse set of corporate interests. These corporate interests span
the economy and include retailers (Sears, Hallmark), pharmaceutical companies
(Pfizer), technology firms (Microsoft, IBM), banks and financial services firms
(Bank One, Bank of America), and automakers (GM, Toyota). Data brokerage
companies, such as Acxiom and LexisNexis repackage, augment, and sell personal
data on individuals to corporate and public sector clients." (footnotes
omitted)); Natasha Singer, You for Sale: A Data Giant is Mapping, and Sharing,
the Consumer Genome, N.Y. Times, June 17, 2012, at BU1 (describing
private-sector data mining).





n163.  See FTC, Data Brokers: A Call for Transparency and Accountability (2014),
available at
http://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/reports/data-brokers-call-transparency
-accountability-report-federal-trade-commission-may-2014/140527databrokerreport.
pdf ("Data brokers hold a vast array of information on individual consumers. For
example, one of the nine data brokers has 3000 data segments for nearly every
U.S. consumer."). See generally S. Comm. on Commerce, Sci., & Transp., Majority
Staff, A Review of the Data Broker Industry: Collection, Use, and Sale of
Consumer Data for Marketing Purposes 13-14 (2013) (describing the types of data
collected by data brokers).





n164.  See Laura Hildner, Note, Defusing the Threat of RFID: Protecting Consumer
Privacy Through Technology-Specific Legislation at the State Level, 41 Harv.
C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 133, 142 (2006) (describing radio frequency identification
technology used to track customers' movements in retail stores).





n165.  Evgeny Morozov, Connecting the Dots, Missing the Story, Slate (June 24,
2013, 7:45 AM),
http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2013/06/with_big_data_surv
eillance_the_government_doesn_t_need_to_know_why_anymore.html, archived at
http://perma.cc/FuF4-DDRW.





n166.  Manyika et al., supra note 129, at 85 ("Globally in 2008, there were 90
billion to 100 billion such transactions off line linkable to [point of sale]
devices. Law enforcement investigations regularly use such data to establish
physical location.").





n167.  Cf. Sam Kamin, The Private Is Public: The Relevance of Private Actors in
Defining the Fourth Amendment, 46 B.C. L. Rev. 83, 125-27 (2004) (discussing
databases of information on consumers that retailers compile).





n168.  See Chris Jay Hoofnagle, Big Brother's Little Helpers: How ChoicePoint
and Other Commercial Data Brokers Collect and Package Your Data for Law
Enforcement, 29 N.C. J. Int'l L. & Com. Reg. 595, 600-07 (2004) (describing the
types of data compiled by different information firms, including the credit
bureau Experian).





n169.  See Carter Dougherty, Consumer Bureau Chief Defends Big-Data Program,
Bos. Globe, Apr. 24, 2013, at B10.





n170.  Jon D. Michaels, All the President's Spies: Private-Public Intelligence
Partnerships in the War on Terror, 96 Calif. L. Rev. 901, 902 (2008) ("Private
organizations can at times obtain and share information more easily and under
fewer legal restrictions than the government can when it collects similar
information on its own.").





n171.  Fred H. Cate, Government Data Mining: The Need for a Legal Framework, 43
Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 435, 457 (2008).





n172.  See, e.g., Eric Lichtblau & James Risen, Bank Data Sifted in Secret by
U.S. to Block Terror, N.Y. Times, June 23, 2006, at A1; Eric Lichtblau, F.B.I.'s
Reach Into Records Is Set To Grow, N.Y. Times, Nov. 12, 2003, at A12
(characterizing the government's ability to gather financial data on individuals
as at least moderately constrained); Josh Meyer & Greg Miller, U.S. Secretly
Tracks Global Bank Data, L.A. Times, June 23, 2006, at A1.





n173.  See Joshua L. Simmons, Note, Buying You: The Government's Use of
Fourth-Parties to Launder Data About "The People,' 2009 Colum. Bus. L. Rev. 950,
951-52, 990-99 (reporting that the government turns to private companies to
provide information that it would be restricted from collecting on its own);
Pratap Chatterjee, The Data Hackers, Nation (Oct. 8, 2013),
http://www.thenation.com/article/176542/data-hackers, archived at
http://perma.cc/DRG8-62XQ (reporting that private companies sell data to the
government for law enforcement purposes).





n174.  Cf. National Crime Information Center, FBI, supra note 11.





n175.  The CJIS Division Turns 20, CJIS Link (Fed. Bureau of
Investigation/Criminal Justice Info. Servs. Div.), Mar. 2012, at 3.





n176.  Cf. Kline, supra note 162, at 451 ("An example of a state-level database
initiative is the Multi-State Anti-Terrorism Information Exchange ("MATRIX'), a
law enforcement database that combines data from private and public sources to
create a searchable database to assist in police investigations.").





n177.  Slobogin, Transaction Surveillance, supra note 138, at 145 ("Advances in
data warehousing and data exchange technology in the financial sector allow very
easy access to a virtual cornucopia of transaction-related information that can
reveal, among other things, "what products or services you buy; what charities,
political causes, or religious organizations you contribute to; ... where, with
whom, and when you travel; how you spend your leisure time; ... whether you have
unusual or dangerous hobbies; and even whether you participate in certain
felonious activities.'" (quoting Gertz, supra note 144, at 944-45)); Solove,
supra note 138; Daniel J. Solove, Data Mining and the Security-Liberty Debate,
75 U. Chi. L. Rev. 343, 344 (2008) [hereinafter Solove, Security-Liberty Debate]
(introducing government data mining programs); Omer Tene, What Google Knows:
Privacy and Internet Search Engines, 2008 Utah L. Rev. 1433, 1458 (explaining
that search query logs aggregate vast amounts of personal information).





n178.  Brief of Amici Curiae Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) et al.
at 12-13, Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial Dist. Court of Nev., 542 U.S. 177 (2004) (No.
03-5554); see also U.S. Dep't of Homeland Sec., Report to the Public Concerning
the Multistate Anti-Terrorism Information Exchange (MATRIX) Pilot Project 2-4
(2006), available at
http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy-matrix-122006.pdf (describing
privacy concerns that doomed the project); Katie Stenman, Comment, State
Government Information Collection: The Shutdown of the MATRIX Program, REAL ID,
and DNA Collection, 2 Info. Soc'y J.L. & Pol'y 547, 549-50 (2006) (describing
the MATRIX database).





n179.  Brief of Amici Curiae, supra note 178, at 30.





n180.  U.S. Dep't of Homeland Sec., supra note 178, at 2.





n181.  See Douglas A. Fretty, Comment, Face-Recognition Surveillance: A Moment
of Truth for Fourth Amendment Rights in Public Places, 16 Va. J.L. & Tech. 430,
435-36 (2011) ("Called TIA (originally "Total Information Awareness' but
redubbed "Terrorism Information Awareness' to avoid an overtly Orwellian
moniker), the program included a HumanID component, intended to "identify humans
using a combination of biometric modes at distances up to 500 feet.'" (footnotes
omitted)).





n182.  Id.





n183.  See Slobogin, Government Data Mining, supra note 138, at 318 ("Beginning
soon after the passing of TIA, it spent at least $ 40 million developing a
program called ADVISE (for Analysis, Dissemination, Visualization, Insight, and
Semantic Enhancement), which was designed "to troll a vast sea of information,
including audio and visual, and extract suspicious people, places and other
elements based on their links and behavioral patterns.'" (quoting Ellen
Nakashima & Alec Klein, New Profiling Program Raises Privacy Concerns, Wash.
Post, Feb. 28, 2007, at B1)).





n184.  See K.A. Taipale, Data Mining and Domestic Security: Connecting the Dots
to Make Sense of Data, 5 Colum. Sci. & Tech. L. Rev. 1, 3 n.3 (2003) (remarking
that the Joint Inquiry Into the Intelligence Community Activities Before and
After the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001, H.R. Rep. No. 107-792, S.
Rep. No. 107-351 (2002), "refers at least ten times to the intelligence
communit[y's] failure to "connect the dots'"); see also Fretty, supra note 181.





n185.  See Solove, Security-Liberty Debate, supra note 177, at 343 ("Under the
TIA program, the government would assemble a massive database consisting of
financial, educational, health, and other information on US citizens, which
would later be analyzed to single out people matching a terrorist profile.
According to [Admiral John] Poindexter, "the only way to detect ... terrorists
is to look for patterns of activity that are based on observations from past
terrorist attacks as well as estimates about how terrorists will adapt to our
measures to avoid detection.'" (quoting John M. Poindexter, Op-Ed, Finding the
Face of Terror in Data, N.Y. Times, Sept. 10, 2003, at A25)); Jeffrey Rosen,
Total Information Awareness, N.Y. Times, Dec. 12, 2002 (Magazine), at 128, 129
("In addition to analyzing financial, educational, travel and medical records,
as well as criminal and other governmental records, the T.I.A. program could
include the development of technologies to create risk profiles for millions of
visitors and American citizens in its quest for suspicious patterns of
behavior.").





n186.  See U.S. Dep't of Homeland Sec., supra note 178, at 4 (analyzing the
cancellation of MATRIX); Solove, Security-Liberty Debate, supra note 177, at 1
(reporting the cancellation of TIA, but suggesting that it was merely replaced
with similar programs).





n187.  See Cate, supra note 171, at 442-43 ("The Federal Bureau of Investigation
("FBI') maintains extensive databases in its Criminal Justice Information
Services Division ("CJISD') that collect data from, and supply data to, a wide
array of public-and private-sector entities."); Hoofnagle, supra note 168, at
599-600 (describing the murky but robust relationship between government
agencies and private data brokers); Rushin, supra note 154, at 292 ("In 2003,
the Department of Justice began the National Criminal Intelligence Sharing Plan
(NCISP), which is designed at improving the sharing of criminal intelligence
data.").





n188.  See Cate, supra note 171, at 444 ("The FBI aggregates data from multiple
databases into its Investigative Data Warehouse ("IDW'). According to press
briefings given by the FBI in 2006, the IDW contains more than 659 million
records, which come from 50 FBI and outside government agency sources. The
system's data mining tools are so sophisticated that they can handle many
variations in names and other data, including up to twenty-nine variants of
birth dates. The 13,000 agents and analysts who use the system average one
million queries a month." (footnotes omitted)); Slobogin, Government Data
Mining, supra note 138, at 319-20 ("The DOJ, through the FBI, has been
collecting telephone logs, banking records, and other personal information
regarding thousands of Americans not only in connection with counterterrorism
efforts, but also in furtherance of ordinary law enforcement." (footnote
omitted)).





n189.  See Simmons, supra note 173, at 951-52 ("Your information is for sale,
and the government is buying it at alarming rates. The CIA, FBI, Justice
Department, Defense Department, and other government agencies are, at this very
moment, turning to a group of companies to provide them with information that
these companies can gather without the restrictions that bind government
intelligence agencies.").





n190.  Joseph T. Thai, Is Data Mining Ever a Search Under Justice Stevens's
Fourth Amendment?, 74 Fordham L. Rev. 1731, 1739-40 (2006) ("MATRIX allowed law
enforcement to search through "billions of records from disparate datasets' from
participating states as well as "commercially available data sources.' The
database itself actually was developed and maintained by Seisint, Inc., based on
its Accurint service that LexisNexis later acquired." (footnote omitted)).





n191.  Taipale, supra note 184, at 15 (footnote omitted); see also id. at 14-15
("The notion that powerful analytical tools developed for commercial and
scientific application will not eventually be used for terrorism prevention (or,
for that matter, general law enforcement purposes) seems unrealistic,
particularly since these technologies are already being used in a wide variety
of law enforcement contexts." (footnote omitted)).





n192.  See, e.g., Editorial, The End of Privacy?, N.Y. Times, July 15, 2012, at
SR10 (describing increased opportunities for surveillance in a digital era); see
also Ira S. Rubinstein, Ronald D. Lee & Paul M. Schwartz, Data Mining and
Internet Profiling: Emerging Regulatory and Technological Approaches, 75 U. Chi.
L. Rev. 261, 271-73 (2008) (same); Taipale, supra note 184, at 21 ("In the
context of law enforcement, data mining is no more than the computational
automation of traditional investigative skills - that is, the intelligent
analysis of myriad "clues' in order to develop a theory of the case."); Terry,
supra note 144, at 391 ("Big data is creating a private surveillance model that
will exceed law enforcement tracking of individuals using Internet and cell
phone data."); Lee Tien, Privacy, Technology and Data Mining, 30 Ohio N.U. L.
Rev. 389, 390 (2004) (highlighting the vast amount of data held by private firms
and suggesting that the government would like to use it for law enforcement);
Glenn R. Simpson, Big Brother-in-Law: If the FBI Hopes To Get the Goods on You,
It May Ask ChoicePoint, Wall St. J., Apr. 13, 2001, at A1 (reporting on the ease
with which the government can access information on individuals through
commercial data purchases); Andy Greenberg, U.S. Government Requests for Google
Users' Private Data Jump 37% in One Year, Forbes (June 17, 2012, at 11:01 PM),
http://www.forbes.com/sites/andygreenberg/2012/06/17/u-s-government-requests-for
-google-users-private-data-spike-37-in-one-year, archived at
http://perma.cc/HQP2-PNPM (reporting on government requests for data held by
Google); Declan McCullagh, Feds Push for Tracking Cell Phones, CNET (Feb. 11,
2010, 4:00 AM), http://www.cnet.com/news/feds-push-for-tracking-cell-phones,
archived at http://perma.cc/4TXW-ZX64 (discussing government efforts to use cell
phone data for law enforcement).





n193.  ChoicePoint itself is said to have "14 billion records on individuals and
businesses that can be used for tasks like pre-employment screening of job
candidates." Kline, supra note 162, at 448 ("Electronically available personal
data culled from public and private records forms the backbone of the
multi-billion dollar database-marketing industry. Data brokers and their
customers collect and trade massive amounts of digitized personal data on most
Americans through database-driven information markets."); see also Strahilevitz,
supra note 145, at 1670 ("One of the most significant developments in the
industrialized world during the last decade has been the increased availability
of information about individuals. Personal information that was once obscure can
be revealed almost instantaneously via a Google search.").





n194.  See Simmons, supra note 173, at 976 ("There is no provision ...
preventing [a] financial institution from disclosing ... information to a
fourth-party, who could then pass it on to the government."); see also Michaels,
supra note 170, at 902.





n195.  Simmons, supra note 173, at 990-91 (quoting Paul Magnusson, They're
Watching You, Bus. Wk., Jan. 24, 2005, at 22); see also Julia Angwin, Dragnet
Nation: A Quest for Privacy, Security, and Freedom in a World of Relentless
Surveillance 3 (2014) (questioning whether companies ought to "scoop up
information about people's mental health"); Elspeth A. Brotherton, Comment, Big
Brother Gets a Makeover: Behavioral Targeting and the Third-Party Doctrine, 61
Emory L.J. 555, 563 (2012) ("For example, "supermassive databases' - like those
made available by companies such as LexisNexis - offer billions of records about
individuals aggregated from public and private records. Thus, a user's profile
could reflect vast quantities of highly sensitive personal information,
including the user's "demographics, family information, and credit history.'"
(footnote omitted)); Julia Angwin, The Web's New Gold Mine: Your Secrets, Wall
St. J., July 31, 2010, at W1 ("Microsoft ... had a prediction of ... age, ZIP
code[,] ... gender[,] ... income, marital status, presence of children and home
ownership."); John Markoff, You're Leaving a Digital Trail. Should You Care?,
N.Y. Times, Nov. 30, 2008, at BU1 (highlighting the abundance of
smartphone-generated data); Robert O'Harrow Jr., In Age of Security, Firm Mines
Wealth of Personal Data, Wash. Post, Jan. 20, 2005, at A1 (reporting on
ChoicePoint's growth in private-and public-sector clients).





n196.  See Aliya Sternstein, FBI Seeks Video Recognition Technology to
Automatically ID Suspects, NextGov (Nov. 4, 2013),
http://www.nextgov.com/emerging-tech/2013/11/fbi-seeks-video-recognition-technol
ogy-automatically-id-suspects/73168/, archived at http://perma.cc/X5H2-CWR3
("The FBI is weighing the use of video recognition technology to quickly
identify suspects, even if all the camera has captured is a perpetrator's limp
or fraying blue baseball cap. Think of it as automated police lineups for the
YouTube generation."); see also Marc Jonathan Blitz, Video Surveillance and the
Constitution of Public Space: Fitting the Fourth Amendment to a World That
Tracks Image and Identity, 82 Tex. L. Rev. 1349, 1354 (2004) (highlighting
identification technologies); John J. Brogan, Facing the Music: The Dubious
Constitutionality of Facial Recognition Technology, 25 Hastings Comm. & Ent.
L.J. 65, 81 (2002) (same).





n197.  See Rushin, supra note 154, at 288 ("During the Super Bowl in 2001,
FaceTrac technology was used to digitally scan 128 points on the face of each
fan entering Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida. This information was then
compared to Federal Bureau of Investigations [sic] databases. In total, the
technology was able to identify nineteen suspected criminals. Similar technology
has been employed in major cities across the country including Boston, Tampa,
Providence, Kansas City, and Washington, D.C." (footnotes omitted)).





n198.  Laura K. Donohue, Technological Leap, Statutory Gap, and Constitutional
Abyss: Remote Biometric Identification Comes of Age, 97 Minn. L. Rev. 407,
447-48 (2012) ("The Interstate Photo System (IPS) ... draws heavily on FRT and
data mining technologies - and the database on which it is built is rapidly
growing. As of 2009, [the database] included more than 6.75 million photos. By
February 2012, this number had increased to more than 114.5 million photos."
(footnotes omitted)); Margaret Hu, Biometric ID Cybersurveillance, 88 Ind. L.J.
1475, 1521 (2013) ("With a universal biometric database and "cardless' national
ID system, such as a biometric E-Verify system, or biometric national ID card -
e.g., digitalized and multimodal biometric driver's license, Social Security
Card, or passport - federal, state, and local law enforcement could scan
biometric data or request to see a digitalized biometric ID for a wide range of
reasons, including routine traffic stops.").





n199.  See, e.g., Sabrina A. Lochner, Note, Saving Face: Regulating Law
Enforcement's Use of Mobile Facial Recognition Technology & Iris Scans, 55 Ariz.
L. Rev. 201, 206 (2013) ("The American military began using a multi-modal device
called Handheld Interagency Identity Detection Equipment ("HIIDE') in 2007. This
allowed soldiers to take facial pictures, iris scans, and fingerprints in the
field and compare the gathered information to a database; the comparison let
soldiers see if the person being scanned was on a watch list and allowed the
soldiers to determine the person's identity.").





n200.  See Craig Timberg & Ellen Nakashima, Photo-ID Databases Become Troves for
Police, Wash. Post, June 17, 2013, at A1 ("But research efforts are focused on
pushing the software to the point where it can reliably produce the names of
people in the time it takes them to walk by a video camera. This already works
in controlled, well-lit settings when the database of potential matches is
relatively small. Most experts expect those limitations to be surmounted over
the next few years."); David Goldman, Real-Time Face Recognition Comes to Your
iPhone Camera, CNN Money (Mar. 12, 2012, 11:13 AM),
http://money.cnn.com/2012/03/12/technology/iPhone-face-recognition/, archived at
http://perma.cc/J3WH-2Z3V; Zach Howard, Police to Begin iPhone Iris Scans Amid
Privacy Concerns, Reuters, July 20, 2011, available at
http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/20/us-crime-identification-iris-idUSTRE76
J4A120110720.





n201.  See Lochner, supra note 199, at 202 ("Beginning in April 2012, more than
50 law enforcement agencies across the United States began using a mobile device
to identify people through facial recognition technology ("FRT'), iris scans,
and fingerprints." (footnote omitted)); id. at 205 ("Using FRT, police can
determine someone's identity by running a photo of that person's face through a
database. The computer program matches the unidentified face with a picture,
name, and criminal record of someone already in the database." (footnote
omitted)); see also Fretty, supra note 181, at 435 ("Cities are embracing FRT to
monitor their citizens on a daily, more mundane basis. Many municipalities,
including Los Angeles and New York City, have equipped police officers with
facial scanners that determine whether a suspect has a criminal record, while
others install the technology on stationary street cameras." (footnote
omitted)).





n202.  Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 200, at A1; see also Ryan Gallagher, FBI
to Give Facial Recognition Software to Law-Enforcement Agencies, Slate (Aug. 23,
2012, 5:08 PM),
http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2012/08/23/universal_face_workstation_fb
i_to_give_facial_recognition_software_to_law_enforcement_.html, archived at
http://perma.cc/G9VR-NMBF; Sara Reardon, FBI Launches $ 1 Billion Face
Recognition Project, NewScientist (Sept. 7, 2012),
http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg21528804.200-fbi-launches-1-billion-facere
cognition-project.html, archived at http://perma.cc/S3Q4-4WUM.





n203.  Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 200, at A1.





n204.  Id.





n205.  Id.





n206.  Id. ("Thirty-seven states now use facial-recognition technology in their
driver's-license registries ... . At least 26 of those allow state, local or
federal law enforcement agencies to search - or request searches - of photo
databases in an attempt to learn the identities of people considered relevant to
investigations."); see also id. ("The increasingly widespread deployment of the
technology in the United States has helped police find murderers, bank robbers
and drug dealers, many of whom leave behind images on surveillance videos or
social-media sites that can be compared against official photo databases... .
Law enforcement use of such facial searches is blurring the traditional
boundaries between criminal and non-criminal databases, putting images of people
never arrested in what amount to perpetual digital lineups. The most advanced
systems allow police to run searches from laptop computers in their patrol cars
and offer access to the FBI and other federal authorities.").





n207.  See Emily Steel, A Face Launches 1,000 Apps, Wall St. J., Aug. 5, 2011,
at B5 (reviewing the proliferation of social media applications that use facial
recognition); Richard Lardner, Your New Facebook "Friend' May Be the FBI, NBC
News (Mar. 16, 2010, 10:54 AM),
http://www.nbcnews.com/id/35890739/ns/technology_and_science-security/t/your-new
facebook-friend-may-be-fbi/, archived at http://perma.cc/KQJ2-9MT3 (reporting on
use of social media by law enforcement); see also Dino Grandoni, Facebook's New
"DeepFace" Program Is Just As Creepy As It Sounds, Huffington Post,
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/03/18/facebook-deepface-facial-recognition_n_
4985925.html (last updated Mar. 25, 2014, 2:59 PM), archived at
http://perma.cc/79TP-MEJR ("Facebook owns the world's largest photo library, and
it now has the technology to match almost all the faces within it. Yes, even the
ones you don't tag. Facebook announced ... that it has developed a program
called "DeepFace,' which researchers say can determine whether two photographed
faces are of the same person with 97.25 percent accuracy.").





n208.  Daniel J. Steinbock, National Identity Cards: Fourth and Fifth Amendment
Issues, 56 Fla. L. Rev. 697, 704-05 (2004) ("Biometrics are identification
techniques based on some unique, physiological, and difficult-to-alienate
characteristic. Current forms of identification often rely on relatively
primitive biometrics such as skin, hair and eye color, physical markings,
gender, and facial hair. These characteristics are often portrayed in a
photograph or list of physical characteristics, such as those used on a driver's
license." (footnote omitted)).





n209.  Ellen Nakashima, FBI Prepares Vast Database of Biometrics, Wash. Post,
Dec. 22, 2007, at A1; Image-Based Matching Technology Offers Identification and
Intelligence Prospects, CJIS Link (FBI/Criminal Justice Info. Servs. Div), Dec.
2012, at 4 ("In 2014, investigators will be able to query the NGI [(Next
Generation Identification)] with descriptive data about tattoos to find images
of potential matches of [scars, marks, and tattoos] associated with individuals'
records.").





n210.  Wendy Koch, Iris Scans Let Law Enforcement Keep an Eye on Criminals, USA
Today, Dec. 5, 2007, at A1; Howard, supra note 200.





n211.  Lochner, supra note 199, at 207 ("MORIS attaches to an iPhone and allows
law enforcement officers to search facial, iris, and fingerprint databases while
they are in the field.")





n212.  Id. at 208 (footnotes omitted); see also Donohue, supra note 198, at
461-62 ( "The Mobile Offender Recognition and Information System, known as
MORIS, incorporates FRT, iris scans, and fingerprinting. Police officers
equipped with the device can take a picture of a person's face from a distance
of two to five feet away, which is then analyzed according to 130 distinguishing
points. This information can then be compared to existing databases." (footnotes
omitted)); Emily Steel, How a New Police Tool for Face Recognition Works, Wall
St. J. (July 13, 2011, 7:56 AM),
http://blogs.wsj.com/digits/2011/07/13/how-a-new-police-tool-for-face-recognitio
n-works/, archived at http://perma.cc/TXS-8DHQ (noting the MORIS device's
usefulness in identifying individuals who are not carrying forms of
identification).





n213.  See, e.g., Emily Steel & Julia Angwin, Device Raises Fear of Facial
Profiling, Wall St. J., July 13, 2011, at A1; Tovia Smith, New Police Scanner
Raises "Facial Profiling" Concerns, NPR (July 27, 2011, 9:58 PM),
http://www.npr.org/2011/08/11/138769662/new-police-scanner-raises-facial-profili
ng-concerns, archived at http://perma.cc/R5HT-Y342; see also Noah Shachtman,
Army Tracking Plan: Drones that Never Forget a Face, Wired (Sept. 28, 2011, 6:30
AM), http://www.wired.com/2011/09/drones-never-forget-a-face/, archived at
http://perma.cc/FP49-4KTZ.





n214.  See Donohue, supra note 198, at 412-13 ("The Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI), for example, is currently developing what it calls Next
Generation Identification (NGI). One of its components, the Interstate Photo
System, allows law enforcement to submit still images or video surveillance
feeds obtained from any public or private source. The system is designed to
store this data and, using FRT, to identify individuals, pairing images with
biographic information. NGI also uses biographic information to search its
Repository for Individuals of Special Concern (RISC)." (footnotes omitted)).





n215.  Simmons, supra note 173, at 952 n.1.





n216.  See Molly Bruder, Comment, Say Cheese! Examining the Constitutionality of
Photostops, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1693, 1697 (2008) ("Increasingly, police
departments and law enforcement agencies are using gang databases to combat gang
violence. These databases contain personal information about suspected gang
members, including gang allegiance, street name, address, physical description,
identifying marks, tattoos, and photographs." (footnote omitted)); Jim Adams,
Officers Share Names to Battle Gangs, Star Trib. (Minneapolis), Feb. 24, 1998,
at B1; Editorial, "GangNet" Bears Watching, Denver Post, Sept. 28, 2002, at B23;
Ryan Lizza, The Year in Ideas: Ghetto Profiling, N.Y. Times, Dec. 15, 2002
(Magazine), at 94, 94-95 (describing a profiling technique in which police
target crime-plagued neighborhoods to build a database of potential suspects);
see also Hong H. Tieu, Picturing the Asian Gang Member Among Us, 11 Asian Pac.
Am. L.J. 41, 44-45 (2006) (reporting that California's "CalGang" database is the
largest gang database in the nation and contains photographs of suspected gang
members who have been detained - although not necessarily arrested - by local
police departments); De Tran & Iris Yokoi, O.C. Asians Say Police Photos Are
Harassment: Dispute: Fountain Valley's "Mug" Shots Unfairly Stereotype Youths as
Gang Members, Complainants Say, L.A. Times (Nov. 15, 1992),
http://articles.latimes.com/1992-11-15/news/mn-1093_1_fountain-valley-police-dep
artment, archived at http://perma.cc/CQK3-3NC6 (reporting that Asian youths
allege that they are unfairly branded as gang members as police take their
photos for the gang database).





n217.  Tom Casady, P3i Lincoln Police Department, YouTube (July 28, 2011),
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7HpQwkAcU24 [f] Zach Pluhacek, Lincoln Cops' App
Up for Download, Lincoln J. Star (Aug. 24, 2011, 9:00 PM),
http://journalstar.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/lincoln-cops-app-up-for-downl
oad/article_6a2ae7c2-4597-51e0-a5b3-eae4069a587a.html, archived at
http://perma.cc/5XJ5-AJW3; see also Zach Pluhacek, Finding Crooks? "There's an
App for That," Lincoln J. Star (Oct. 15, 2010, 6:45 AM),
http://journalstar.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/finding-crooks-there-s-an-app
-for-that/article_d3f33ae6-d7ea-11df-b5d6-001cc4c03286.html, archived at
http://perma.cc/A7R3-JCCG.





n218.  See Steve Lohr, The Age of Big Data, N.Y. Times, Feb. 11, 2012, at SR1
("Police departments across the country, led by New York's, use computerized
mapping and analysis of variables like historical arrest patterns, paydays,
sporting events, rainfall and holidays to try to predict likely crime "hot
spots' and deploy officers there in advance.").





n219.  See Kahn, supra note 24 (describing predictive policing in Los Angeles);
Rubin, supra note 24 (same); see also Martin Kaste, Can Software That Predicts
Crime Pass Constitutional Muster?, NPR (July 26, 2013, 4:55 PM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/07/26/205835674/can-software-that-predicts-crime-pass-co
nstitutional-muster, archived at http://perma.cc/C2GW-86LG (discussing
predictive policing in Seattle).





n220.  See Jie Xu et al., Rutgers Cent. on Pub. Sec., Crime Generators for
Shootings in Urban Areas: A Test Using Conditional Locational Interdependence as
an Extension of Risk Terrain Modeling 2 (2010) (reporting that shootings are
concentrated around certain terrain features); Rubin, supra note 24 ("For patrol
officers on the streets, mapping software on in-car computers and hand-held
devices would show continuous updates on the probability of various crimes
occurring in the vicinity, along with the addresses and background information
about paroled ex-convicts living in the area.").





n221.  See Ferguson, Predictive Policing, supra note 29, at 265-69.





n222.  See generally Ferguson, Crime Mapping, supra note 25, at 184-90
(providing an overview of crime mapping techniques).





n223.  See generally James J. Willis et al., Police Found., Compstat in
Practice: An In-Depth Analysis of Three Cities 2-5 (2003) (providing an overview
of COMPSTAT technology); James J. Willis et al., Making Sense of COMPSTAT: A
Theory-Based Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police Departments, 41
Law & Soc'y Rev. 147, 148 (2007) ("COMPSTAT, a management and technological
system, ... combine[s] cutting-edge crime analysis and geographical information
systems with state-of-the-art managements principles ... .").





n224.  Ferguson, Predictive Policing, supra note 29, at 265-69.





n225.  See Anthony A. Braga et al., The Relevance of Micro Places to Citywide
Robbery Trends: A Longitudinal Analysis of Robbery Incidents at Street Corners
and Block Faces in Boston, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 7, 11 (2011) ("Studies of
the spatial distribution of robbery in urban environments have also revealed
that a small number of micro places generate a disproportionate number of
robberies. Certain high-risk facilities, such as bars, convenience stores, and
banks, at particular places also tend to experience a disproportionate amount of
robbery."); Lisa Tompson & Michael Townsley, (Looking) Back to the Future: Using
Space-Time Patterns to Better Predict the Location of Street Crime, 12 Int'l J.
Police Sci. & Mgmt. 23, 24 (2010) ("Research has repeatedly demonstrated that
offenders prefer to return to a location associated with a high chance of
success instead of choosing random targets.").





n226.  See Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y. Times,
Aug. 16, 2011, at A11 (reporting on predictive policing in Santa Cruz,
California).





n227.  This predictive focus on individuals has already been adopted in other
areas of the criminal justice system, most notably in predicting recidivism and
for pretrial release. Risk assessment mechanisms used in dozens of jurisdictions
rely on predictive formulas to judge which offenders should be released and
their likelihood of reoffending. Berk, supra note 128, at 1074.





n228.  Cf. Cynthia Rudin, Predictive Policing: Using Machine Learning to Detect
Patterns of Crime, Wired (Aug. 22, 2013, 3:07 PM),
http://www.wired.com/insights/2013/08/predictive-policing
-using-machine-learning-to-detect-patterns-of-crime, archived at
http://perma.cc/84SQ-RCBG ("The algorithm tries to construct a modus operandi
(M.O.) of the offender. The M.O. is a set of habits that the offender follows
and is a type of behavior used to characterize a pattern. The M.O. for the
burglaries included factors like means of entry (front door, back door, window),
day of the week, characteristics of the property (apartment, single family
house), and geographic proximity to other break-ins.").





n229.  Kate J. Bowers & Shane D. Johnson, Who Commits Near Repeats? A Test of
the Boost Explanation, W. Criminology Rev., Nov. 2004, at 12, 22.





n230.  See Vikas Grover et al., Review of Current Crime Prediction Techniques,
in Applications and Innovations in Intelligent Systems XIV 233, 233 (Richard
Ellis et al. eds, 2007) ("Data is not just a record of crimes, it also contains
valuable information that could be used to link crime scenes based on the modus
operandi (MO) of the offender(s), suggest which offenders may be responsible for
the crime and also identify those offenders who work in teams (offender
networks) etc."); cf. Usama Fayyad et al., From Data Mining to Knowledge
Discovery in Databases, AI Mag., Fall 1996, at 37, 39 ("Historically, the notion
of finding useful patterns in data has been given a variety of names, including
data mining, knowledge extraction, information discovery, information
harvesting, data archaeology, and data pattern processing. The term data mining
has mostly been used by statisticians, data analysts, and the management
information systems (MIS) communities.").





n231.  See Rudin, supra note 228.





n232.  See Steve Lohr, How Privacy Vanishes Online, N.Y. Times, Mar. 17, 2010,
at A1 (discussing the "power of computers to identify people from social
patterns").





n233.  See, e.g., Michael Barbaro & Tom Zeller Jr., A Face Is Exposed for AOL
Searcher No. 4417749, N.Y. Times, Aug. 9, 2006, at A1 (describing "a ticking
privacy time bomb" where search engine data can reveal user identity); Ryan
Singel, Netflix Spilled Your Brokeback Mountain Secret, Lawsuit Claims, Wired
(Dec. 17, 2009),
http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2009/12/netflix-privacy-lawsuit, archived at
http://perma.cc/GU22-4LWD (suggesting that Netflix users can be identified based
on their viewing history and movie ratings).





n234.  See Jon Bardin, Kentucky Study Links Pseudophedrine [sic] Sales, Meth
Busts, L.A. Times (Oct. 16, 2012),
http://articles.latimes.com/2012/oct/16/news/la-heb-kentucky-counties-pseudophed
rine-meth-busts-20121016, archived at http://perma.cc/EG2P-EZHN ("Using that
data, researchers were able to determine how much of the drug was sold in each
Kentucky county and compare it with the number of meth busts in local police
logs... . The researchers found a significant association between pseudophedrine
[sic] sales and meth busts: In any given county, an increase in pseudophedrine
[sic] sales of thirteen grams per 100 people translated to an additional meth
lab busted. The results suggest that the computer databases could actually be
used to predict where drug busts are most likely to take place.").





n235.  See Steinbock, supra note 18, at 13 ("Data mining differs from data
matching in that it is concerned with patterns of characteristics and behavior
and is often used for making predictive judgments... . Data mining is also
called "knowledge discovery,' "pattern-matching,' and "dataveillance.'"
(footnotes omitted)); id. at 30 ("Although predictive profiling is not
inconsistent with the Fourth Amendment, the factors used must indicate to the
investigating officers (and, later, the reviewing court) the requisite degree of
suspicion. Nothing suggests that these actors should defer to a computer
algorithm for projecting that level of suspicion, but nothing rules out that
possibility either." (footnote omitted)).





n236.  Building Safer Communities: The Importance of Effective Federal-Local
Collaboration in Law Enforcement, Hearing Before the S. Comm. on the Judiciary,
112th Cong. 35 (2011) (statement of Richard A. McFeely, Special Agent in Charge,
Balt. Field Office, FBI) ("Since September 11, 2001, the FBI has shifted from a
traditional crime-fighting agency into an intelligence-led, threat-driven
organization, guided by clear operational strategies. Today's FBI is focused on
predicting and preventing the threats we face while at the same time engaging
with the communities we serve. This shift has led to a greater reliance on
technology, collaboration, and information sharing.").





n237.  Erin Murphy, Databases, Doctrine & Constitutional Criminal Procedure, 37
Fordham Urb. L.J. 803, 830 (2010) ("But the use of databases to generate
suspects represents a new kind of investigation altogether - whether based on
particular information (e.g., "who called this number') or upon predefined
algorithms (e.g., "who has traveled to these three countries and bought these
two items within a one month period').").





n238.  Mitchell, supra note 28.





n239.  See Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 357-59 (1967) (stating that
searches without judicial approval are per se unreasonable - "subject only to a
few specifically established and well-delineated exceptions" - and that people
are "entitled to know that [they] will remain free from unreasonable searches
and seizures").





n240.  See id. at 351 ("What a person knowingly exposes to the public, even in
his own home or office, is not a subject of Fourth Amendment protection."); see
also California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 213 (1986) ("The Fourth Amendment
protection of the home has never been extended to require law enforcement
officers to shield their eyes when passing by a home on public thoroughfares.").





n241.  See United States v. Jacobsen, 466 U.S. 109, 114-15 (1984) ("The fact
that agents of the private carrier independently opened the package and made an
examination that might have been impermissible for a government agent cannot
render otherwise reasonable official conduct unreasonable. The reasonableness of
an official invasion of the citizen's privacy must be appraised on the basis of
the facts as they existed at the time that invasion occurred."); Coolidge v. New
Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443, 489 (1971) (reasoning that when the suspect's wife
produced evidence for the police, "it was not incumbent on the police to stop
her or avert their eyes"); Hoffa v. United States, 385 U.S. 293, 302 (1966)
("Neither this Court nor any member of it has ever expressed the view that the
Fourth Amendment protects a wrongdoer's misplaced belief that a person to whom
he voluntarily confides his wrongdoing will not reveal it."); Burdeau v.
McDowell, 256 U.S. 465, 475-76 (1921) ("[The Fourth Amendment's] origin and
history clearly show that it was intended as a restraint upon the activities of
sovereign authority, and was not intended to be a limitation upon other than
governmental agencies ... ."); Richard A. Epstein, Privacy and the Third Hand:
Lessons from the Common Law of Reasonable Expectations, 24 Berkeley Tech. L.J.
1199, 1222 (2009) ("The law is entitled to the evidence of every person, and it
is hard to think of a criminal system that could survive a new-found ability of
every person to bind the state by contracting out of the third-party rules.").





n242.  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 443 (1976) ("The depositor takes
the risk, in revealing his affairs to another, that the information will be
conveyed by that person to the Government."). Compare Commonwealth v. Duncan,
817 A.2d 455, 463 (Pa. 2003) (reasoning that with respect to bank record
disclosures, "[a] person's name and address do not, by themselves, reveal
anything concerning his personal affairs, opinions, habits or associations."
(internal quotation marks omitted)), with State v. McAllister, 875 A.2d 866, 874
(N.J. 2005) ("Bank records are simply a collection of numbers, symbols, dates,
and tables... . However, when compiled and indexed, individually trivial
transactions take on a far greater significance... . Indeed, the totality of
bank records provides a virtual current biography." (internal quotation marks
omitted)).





n243.  Smith v. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735, 744 (1979) ("When he used his phone,
petitioner voluntarily conveyed numerical information to the telephone company
and "exposed' that information to its equipment in the ordinary course of
business. In so doing, petitioner assumed the risk that the company would reveal
to police the numbers he dialed."); see also United States v. Christie, 624 F.3d
558, 574 (3d Cir. 2010) ("No reasonable expectation of privacy exists in an IP
address, because that information is also conveyed to ... third parties,
including ISPs."); United States v. Bynum, 604 F.3d 161, 164 (4th Cir. 2010)
(holding that there is no objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
subscriber information given to an Internet service provider); United States v.
Perrine, 518 F.3d 1196, 1204-05 (10th Cir. 2008) ("Every federal court to
address [the] issue has held that subscriber information provided to an internet
provider is not protected by the Fourth Amendment's privacy expectation.");
United States v. Forrester, 512 F.3d 500, 510 (9th Cir. 2008) ("[E]-mail and
Internet users have no expectation of privacy in the to/from addresses of their
messages or the IP addresses of the websites they visit because they should know
that this information is provided to and used by Internet service providers for
the specific purpose of directing the routing of information.").





n244.  See In re Historical Cell Site Data, 724 F.3d 600, 615 (5th Cir. 2013)
(holding that individuals' historical cell location information stored by
third-party cell providers is not protected by the Fourth Amendment). See
generally Susan Freiwald, Cell Phone Location Data and the Fourth Amendment: A
Question of Law, Not Fact, 70 Md. L. Rev. 681, 702-08 (2011) (providing
background information on government requests for location data).





n245.  See, e.g., United States v. D'Andrea, 497 F. Supp. 2d 117, 120 (D. Mass.
2007) ("The Smith line of cases has led federal courts to uniformly conclude
that internet users have no reasonable expectation of privacy in their
subscriber information, the length of their stored files, and other noncontent
data to which service providers must have access.").





n246.  See, e.g., Henderson, Beyond the (Current) Fourth Amendment, supra note
37, at 1015 ("Where the third party itself initiates the transfer, the "private
search' doctrine is controlling, in that the Fourth Amendment and its state
analogues only restrict government conduct."); Henderson, Fifty States, supra
note 37, at 395-96 (offering a fifty-state survey of states' positions on the
federal third-party doctrine); Kerr, supra note 37, at 563 ("By disclosing to a
third party, the subject gives up all of his Fourth Amendment rights in the
information revealed."); Orin S. Kerr, The Fourth Amendment and New
Technologies: Constitutional Myths and the Case for Caution, 102 Mich. L. Rev.
801, 858 (2004) ("Because the Fourth Amendment reflects a clear commitment of
the Framers to protect privacy, judges should identify the values of privacy in
new technologies and translate them in to new Fourth Amendment rules." (footnote
omitted)).





n247.  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 957 (Sotomayor, J., concurring)
("More fundamentally, it may be necessary to reconsider the premise that an
individual has no reasonable expectation of privacy in information voluntarily
disclosed to third parties.").





n248.  Murphy, supra note 38, at 503 (discussing the federal statutory limits on
data disclosure - and corresponding exemptions for law enforcement).





n249.  Pub. L. No. 104-191, 110 Stat. 1936 (codified as amended in scattered
sections of 26, 29, and 42 U.S.C. (2012)).





n250.  See 45 C.F.R. § 164.512(f)(1)-(2) (2013).





n251.  15 U.S.C. § 6802 (2012).





n252.  12 U.S.C. §§1951-59 (2012).





n253.  Id. at §§3401-22.





n254.  15 U.S.C. § 1681 (2012).





n255.  Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986, Pub. L. No. 99-508, 100
Stat. 1848 (codified as amended in sections of 18 U.S.C. (2012)); but see
Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, Pub. L. No. 103-414, 108
Stat. 4279 (1994) (requiring telecommunications carriers to maintain systems
compatible with certain types of surveillance techniques).





n256.  18 U.S.C. §§2701-2712 (2012).





n257.  Compare 18 U.S.C. §§2511, 2516, 2518 (2012) (describing the heightened
requirements for obtaining real time communications), with id. § 2703(a)
(setting out the lower standards for obtaining a court order for stored
communications).





n258.  18 U.S.C. § 1039 (2012).





n259.  Id. § 2703(c)-(d).





n260.  See, e.g., Microsoft.com Privacy Statement, Microsoft,
http://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/default.mspx (last updated Aug. 2013),
archived at http://perma.cc/F96M-8FUH; Privacy Policy, Google,
http://www.google.com/privacy (last modified Mar. 31, 2014), archived at
http://perma.cc/5FL4-NEHK;





n261.  See supra Section II.B.2.





n262.  See, e.g., Rupert Neate & Rowena Mason, Networking Site Cashes in on
Friends, Telegraph (Jan. 31, 2009),
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/newsbysector/mediatechnologyandtelecoms/44134
83/Networking-site-cashes-in-on-friends.html, archived at
http://perma.cc/CBF6-R5N9 (reporting Facebook's move to monetize its collection
of personal user information by allowing advertisers to target Facebook users
selectively).





n263.  Louis Stokes, Representing John W. Terry, 72 St. John's L. Rev. 727,
728-29 (1998) (discussing the facts of the Terry case); see also Terry v. Ohio
30 Years Later, supra note 48, app.B at 1523 (reporting the sentencing judge as
describing Terry as "a man who has from December 30, 1948, to the present time,
been consistently involved in difficulties with the law").





n264.  Stokes, supra note 263, at 728-29.





n265.  Id. at 727.





n266.  See Slobogin, Government Data Mining, supra note 138, at 322
("Match-driven data mining programs are designed to determine whether a
particular individual has already been identified as a "person of interest.' In
other words, the goal here is not to find out more about a suspect, but rather
to determine whether a particular person is a known suspect." (emphasis
omitted)).





n267.  See Press Release, Microsoft, New York City Police Department and
Microsoft Partner to Bring Real-Time Crime Prevention and Counterterrorism
Technology Solution to Global Law Enforcement Agencies (Aug. 8, 2012), available
at
http://news.microsoft.com/2012/08/08/new-york-city-police-department-and-microso
ft-partner-to-bring-real-time-crime-prevention-and-counterterrorism-technology-s
olution-to-global-law-enforcement-agencies.





n268.  Douglas Page, Crime Fighting's Next Big Deal, Officer.com (Sept. 4,
2012), http://www.officer.com/article/10773317/crime-fightings-next-big-deal,
archived at http://perma.cc/YTF5-A2UC; see also Michael Endler, NYPD, Microsoft
Push Big Data Policing Into Spotlight, Info. Wk. (Aug. 20, 2012),
http://www.informationweek.com/security/privacy/nypd-microsoft-push-big-data-pol
icing-in/240005838, archived at http://perma.cc/DK97-7HMD (describing how DAS
could lead to earlier apprehension of criminals).





n269.  Somini Sengupta, Privacy Fears as Surveillance Grows in Cities, N.Y.
Times, Oct. 13, 2013, at A1 (pointing out that big data-driven policing in
Oakland, California, could help separate innocent actions from criminal
activity).





n270.  See Simmons, supra note 173, at 990-92 (describing commercial data
acquisitions by the government).





n271.  See Joseph Goldstein & J. David Goodman, Seeking Clues to Gangs and
Crimes, Detectives Follow Internet Rap Videos, N.Y. Times, Jan. 8, 2014, at A20
("Directed by prosecutors to build evidence that individual shootings are part
of larger criminal conspiracies, officers are listening to local rappers for a
better sense of the hierarchy of the streets. "You really have to listen to the
songs because they're talking about ongoing violence.'").





n272.  Cf. id. (highlighting police use of social media to gain insight into
criminal conspiracies).





n273.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 241 (1983) ("Probable cause deals with
probabilities." (internal quotation marks omitted)). The impact of big data on
probable cause is a separate subject beyond the scope of this Article.





n274.  United States v. Hensley, 469 U.S. 221, 228 (1985) (citations omitted);
see also id. at 227 ("This is the first case we have addressed in which police
stopped a person because they suspected he was involved in a completed crime. In
our previous decisions involving investigatory stops on less than probable
cause, police stopped or seized a person because they suspected he was about to
commit a crime, or was committing a crime at the moment of the stop." (citation
omitted)); id. ("We do not agree ... that our prior opinions contemplate an
inflexible rule that precludes police from stopping persons they suspect of past
criminal activity unless they have probable cause for arrest. To the extent
previous opinions have addressed the issue at all, they have suggested that some
investigative stops based on a reasonable suspicion of past criminal activity
could withstand Fourth Amendment scrutiny.").





n275.  See id. at 228-29 ("The factors in the balance may be somewhat different
when a stop to investigate past criminal activity is involved rather than a stop
to investigate ongoing criminal conduct.").





n276.  Id. at 229.





n277.  United States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696, 702 (1983) (allowing stops "when
the officer has reasonable, articulable suspicion that the person has been, is,
or is about to be engaged in criminal activity." (emphasis added)); Florida v.
Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 498 (1983) (allowing certain seizures "if there is
articulable suspicion that a person has committed or is about to commit a crime"
(emphasis added)); United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417 n.2 (1981) ("Of
course, an officer may stop and question a person if there are reasonable
grounds to believe that person is wanted for past criminal conduct.").





n278.  Page, supra note 268.





n279.  See Mark Ward, Crime Fighting with Big Data Weapons, BBC (Mar. 18, 2014,
2:35 AM), http://www.bbc.com/news/business-26520013, archived at
http://perma.cc/4ETS-GKDF; see also Neal Ungerleider, This Small City's Police
Department Builds an App, Nabs Big Data to Find and Fight Bad Guys, Fast Company
(Mar. 26, 2014, 9:00 AM),
http://www.fastcompany.com/3027641/this-small-citys-police-department-builds-an-
app-nabs-big-data-to-find-and-fight-bad-guys, archived at
http://perma.cc/7Z7H-5TNP.





n280.  Taipale, supra note 184, at 21 ("The popular view of investigation in law
enforcement is that there must first be a specific crime and that law
enforcement then follows particularized clues or suspicions after the fact. In
reality, investigators often look for criminal patterns or hypothetical suspects
in order to anticipate future crime. For example, investigators may use pattern
recognition strategies to develop modus operandi ("MO') or behavioral profiles,
which in turn may lead either to specific suspects (profiling as identifying
pattern) or to crime prevention strategies (profiling as predictor of future
crime, resulting, for example, in stakeouts of particular places, likely
victims, or potential perpetrators).").





n281.  See supra Section II.D (discussing the statutory requirements of court
orders for some private information).





n282.  See supra Section II.D (noting the ease with which law enforcement may
access records that are protected by statute).





n283.  Evan Ratliff, Lifted ch. 5-9 (Kindle Singles ed. 2011), available at
https://www.atavist.com/stories/lifted/ (describing the investigation of the
heist).





n284.  Id. at ch. 12.





n285.  Id.





n286.  Id. at ch. 13.





n287.  See Josh Richman & Angela Woodall, Around the Bay Area, You're Being
Watched, Contra Costa Times (June 30, 2013, 1:29 AM),
http://www.contracostatimes.com/News/ci_23569173/Around-the-Bay-Area-youre-being
, archived at http://perma.cc/V8UE-2TJR ("It's not just the National Security
Agency secretly vacuuming up your personal data. Local police agencies are
increasingly adopting Big Data technologies ... ."); cf. Charles Piller & Eric
Lichtblau, FBI Plans to Fight Terror with High-Tech Arsenal, L.A. Times, July
29, 2002, at A1 ("By Sept. 11, 2011, the FBI hopes to use
artificial-intelligence software to predict acts of terrorism the way the
telepathic "precogs' in the movie "Minority Report' foresee murders before they
take place.").





n288.  Lochner, supra note 199, at 225 ("The Automated License Plate Recognition
system, stores license plate numbers of the innocent and guilty so the database
can be mined during Amber Alerts or for leads in cases.").





n289.  See Christopher Benjamin, Note, Shot Spotter and FaceIt: The Tools of
Mass Monitoring, UCLA J.L. & Tech., Spring 2002, art. 2, at 6 (describing a
system by which automated phone calls help find the location of gunfire).





n290.  See Cook, supra note 18 ("The Boston Police Department is rolling out a
powerful new computer program built to find hidden connections among people and
events almost instantly, allowing detectives to investigate murders, rapes, and
other crimes far faster than they can today."); see also Yang Xiang et al.,
Visualizing Criminal Relationships: Comparison of a Hyperbolic Tree and a
Hierarchical List, 41 Decision Support Sys. 69, 75-77 (2005) (describing how a
tool known as COPLINK Criminal Relationship Visualizer links co-occurring events
and characteristics).





n291.  Ferguson, Predictive Policing, supra note 29, at 312-13; Paul Bowers,
Predictive Policing Arrives in Charleston, Charleston City Paper (June 27,
2012), http://www.charlestoncitypaper.com/charleston/predictive-policing
-arrives-in-charleston/Content?oid=4101684, archived at
http://perma.cc/JWL7-35TD (discussing the use of predictive analytics to reduce
armed robberies in Charleston, South Carolina).





n292.  See Steven D. Levitt & Stephen J. Dubner, Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist
Explores the Hidden Side of Everything 89-114 (2005) (discussing the economics
and social relationships of the drug trade in the famous chapter "Why Do Drug
Dealers Still Live with Their Moms?").





n293.  See Wim Bernasco, Them Again?: Same-Offender Involvement in Repeat and
Near Repeat Burglaries, 5 Eur. J. Criminology 411, 423-25 (2008) ("Both repeat
burglaries and near repeat burglaries are much more likely to involve the same
offender than are spatially or temporally unrelated burglaries."); Bowers &
Johnson, supra note 229, at 13 (discussing how features of an offender's modus
operandi, like spatial and temporal preferences, can be used to identify crimes
carried out by a particular network of offenders).





n294.  Domestic violence also presents a possible predictive environment for
crime. See Joseph Goldstein, Police Take on Family Violence to Avert Death, N.Y.
Times, July 25, 2013, at A1 ("The officers assigned to the domestic violence
unit make a total of 70,000 precautionary visits a year to the households with
past episodes. Each precinct station house also maintains a "high propensity'
list of a dozen or so households that get special attention because they are
believed to be most at risk of further violence.").





n295.  See Andrew Papachristos, Tracey L. Meares & Jeffrey Fagan, Attention
Felons: Evaluating Project Safe Neighborhoods in Chicago 4 J. Empirical Legal
Stud. 223, 229-33 (describing Chicago's program to identify and address likely
perpetrators and victims of gun violence); see also Tracey Meares, Andrew V.
Papachristos & Jeffrey Fagan, Homicide and Gun Violence in Chicago: Evaluation
and Summary of the Project Safe Neighborhoods Program 1 (2009), available at
http://www.psnchicago.org/PDFs/2009-PSN-Research-Brief_v2.pdf ("Data analysis
immediately revealed that a very small number of neighborhoods in Chicago are
responsible for most of the city's violence trends. The "city's' crime problem
is in fact geographically and socially concentrated in a few highly impoverished
and socially isolated neighborhoods. Data also revealed that most victims (and
offenders) of gun violence in Chicago tend to be young African American men who
live in neighborhoods on the West or South sides of the city.").





n296.  John Buntin, Social Media Transforms the Way Chicago Fights Gang
Violence, Governing, Oct. 2013, at 26, 28 ("Today, the Chicago Police Department
is doing something similar with gangs. Using a tool academics call "network
analysis,' the CPD is mapping the relationships among Chicago's 14,000 most
active gang members. It's also ranking how likely those people are to be
involved in a homicide, either as victims or offenders. In the process, the CPD
has discovered something striking: Cities don't so much have "hot spots' as "hot
people.' That finding is transforming the way the police do business in Chicago
and has significant implications for how other cities should be policed.").





n297.  Michael Sierra-Arevalo, How Targeted Deterrence Helps Police Reduce Gun
Deaths, Scholars Strategy Network (June 3, 2013, 1:11 PM),
http://thesocietypages.org/ssn/2013/06/03/targeted-deterrence, archived at
http://perma.cc/GZ65-U25X ("The perpetrators of gun violence are also
concentrated in particular sectors of the population. In places like Boston,
more than 50% of all murders and 70% of all shootings are committed by about one
percent of youth aged 15 to 24."); see also id. ("Initiatives like The Boston
Gun Project and Chicago's Project Safe Neighborhoods allow police to concentrate
their efforts on gang-affiliated individuals with previous criminal records.").
See generally Office of Juvenile Justice & Delinquency Prevention, U.S. Dep't of
Justice, Promising Strategies to Reduce Gun Violence 26-33 (1999), available at
http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/html/cd_rom/solution_gang_crime/pubs/PromisingStrategi
estoReduceGunViolence.pdf (discussing Boston's strategy to reduce gun violence
by targeting specific groups and geographic areas).





n298.  Monica Davey, Chicago Tactics Put a Major Dent in Killing Trend, N.Y.
Times, June 11, 2013, at A1; see also Mark Guarnio, Can Math Stop Murder?,
Christian Sci. Monitor (July 20, 2014),
http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/2014/0720/Can-math-stop-murder-video, archived at
http://perma.cc/G3TA-9SPT (discussing predictive policing techniques in Chicago
including sending officers to the houses of suspected gang leaders).





n299.  Jeremy Gorner, Chicago Police Use "Heat List" As Strategy to Prevent
Violence, Chi. Trib. (Aug. 21, 2013),
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-08-21/news/ct-met-heat-list-20130821_1_c
hicago-police-commander-andrew-papachristos-heat-list, archived at
http://perma.cc/8TJA-Y6KM.





n300.  Presence on the list might also allow police to identify individuals for
whom therapeutic intervention might be necessary.





n301.  See, e.g., Jaap Bloem et al., Sogeti Trend Lab VINT, Big Social:
Predicting Behavior with Big Data 35 (2012), available at
http://blog.vint.sogeti.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Big-Social-Predicting-Beh
avior-with-Big-Data.pdf ("In the Netherlands, police officers go on duty with a
smartphone in order to be able to pick up signals in the neighborhood from
social media. In this way, they can show their faces before something serious
happens in the schoolyard, for example.").





n302.  See, e.g., Jackson v. United States, 56 A.3d 1206, 1209-12 (D.C. 2013)
(discussing the difficulty of interpreting furtive gestures and nervousness).





n303.  Jane Bambauer, Hassle, 113 Mich. L. Rev. (forthcoming 2014) (manuscript
at 5), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2404088
(recognizing "courts' consistent preference for police narratives chock full of
detail, even when each additional detail does not contribute much to the
suspicion"); see also id. (manuscript at 42) ("When assessing an officer's
decision to stop or search somebody, courts prefer a long lists [sic] of
reasons. The more reasons the agent can recount, the better.").





n304.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 21 (1968).





n305.  Id. at 30.





n306.  Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 51 (1979).





n307.  United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 273 (2002).





n308.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 272 (2000).





n309.  Cf. Rachael King, IBM Analytics Help Memphis Cops Get "Smart," Bloomberg
Businessweek (Dec. 05, 2011),
http://www.businessweek.com/technology/ibm-analytics-help-memphis-cops-get-smart
-12052011.html, archived at http://perma.cc/Q77C-WCXW (describing the technology
used by law enforcement in Memphis, Tennessee, which has contributed to the
lowest crime rates there in a quarter-century).





n310.  See, e.g., Shima Baradaran, Race, Prediction, and Discretion, 81 Geo.
Wash. L. Rev. 157, 200 (2013) (examining "whether police demonstrate racial
bias" in deciding whether to make arrests); Katherine Y. Barnes, Assessing the
Counterfactual: The Efficacy of Drug Interdiction Absent Racial Profiling, 54
Duke L.J. 1089, 1113, 1132-35 (2005) (explaining study results in which a
driver's race was found to be "the most salient factor" in deciding whether to
search a vehicle); Angela J. Davis, Race, Cops, and Traffic Stops, 51 U. Miami
L. Rev. 425, 425 (1997) (describing the reluctance of two black men to draw
additional attention to themselves while driving because their race and gender
already "makes them more likely to be stopped and detained by the police");
David A. Harris, Essay, "Driving While Black" and All Other Traffic Offenses:
The Supreme Court and Pretextual Traffic Stops, 87 J. Crim. L. & Criminology
544, 546, 570 (1997) ("Pretextual police stops of blacks are so common -
frequent enough to earn the name "driving while black" - [that] many
African-Americans regularly modify the most casual aspects of their driving
behavior ... and even their personal appearance ... ."); Noel Leader, Panel
Discussion at CUNY School of Law (Sept. 29, 2010), in Suspect Fits Description:
Responses to Racial Profiling in New York City, 14 CUNY L. Rev. 57, 65-67 (2010)
(asserting that illegal stops based on racial profiling are breaches of
officers' duty, though police often attempt to justify them by citing
alternative explanations like the suspect's dress); Tracey Maclin, Terry v.
Ohio's Fourth Amendment Legacy: Black Men and Police Discretion, 72 St. John's
L. Rev. 1271, 1279-87 (1998) (arguing that although methods in place in the
1960s to deter crime were facially race-neutral, the implementation of these
strategies was largely determined by the race of the subject).





n311.  See Andrew E. Taslitz, Police Are People Too: Cognitive Obstacles to, and
Opportunities for, Police Getting the Individualized Suspicion Judgment Right, 8
Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 7, 15-16 (2010) ("It is true that some people are, at
times, reasonably good at making certain judgments based on first impressions.
But they are also often quite bad at doing so. Moreover, first impressions can
involve at least five major attributes, namely, the subject's emotions,
personality, intelligence, mental states, and use of deception."); id. at 16
("In addition, individuals' self-knowledge about the relative degree of accuracy
of their ability to make judgments concerning each of the five major attributes
upon first impression is also poor."); see also L. Song Richardson, Police
Efficiency and the Fourth Amendment, 87 Ind. L.J. 1143, 1147 (2012) ("Implicit
social cognition research demonstrates that people have nonconscious reactions
to others that can negatively influence their behaviors. These implicit biases
begin when people categorize others both consciously and nonconsciously by race,
gender, or a host of other socially relevant categories. Categorization triggers
implicit stereotypes and attitudes." (footnotes omitted)).





n312.  Eli B. Silverman, With a Hunch and a Punch, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 133, 140
(2007) ("Like other individuals within the same occupation, police vary in their
ability to make intelligent, intuitive choices. Just as it varies among the
general population, some police are better than others in detecting patterns
from experience. Research and empirical observation amply demonstrates that
there is a wide range in the ability of police officers to successfully deploy
reasonable hunches in their work."); see also Anthony G. Greenwald & Linda
Hamilton Krieger, Implicit Bias: Scientific Foundations, 94 Calif. L. Rev. 945,
947 (2006) (discussing the effects of mental processes outside of "conscious
attentional focus" on decisionmaking); L. Song Richardson, Cognitive Bias,
Police Character, and the Fourth Amendment, 44 Ariz. St. L.J. 267, 271 (2012)
("It is highly probable that fundamental attribution error affects police
judgments of criminality. Officers on the beat often make quick decisions based
upon limited evidence. The stressful nature of their jobs likely depletes their
cognitive capacities, making correction for fundamental attribution error more
difficult."); id. at 269 ("It is well established in the psychological
literature that people tend to explain the behaviors of others by reference to
their character (disposition) rather than to situational influences.").





n313.  See Charles J. Ogletree, Jr., The Presumption of Guilt: The Arrest of
Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Race, Class, and Crime in America, 129-241 (2010)
(telling the stories of one hundred influential African Americans who faced
racial profiling or discrimination); David A. Harris, The Stories, the
Statistics, and the Law: Why "Driving While Black" Matters, 84 Minn. L. Rev.
265, 273-74 (1999) (describing measures taken by African Americans to avoid
police harassment while driving); Sheri Lynn Johnson, Race and the Decision To
Detain a Suspect, 93 Yale L.J. 214, 214 (1983) ("Thirty years ago police stopped
Malcolm X because he was a black man in a white neighborhood. A revolution in
civil rights later, police still view race as an important factor in the
decision to detain a suspect." (footnote omitted)).





n314.  Compare Albert W. Alschuler, The Upside and Downside of Police Hunches
and Expertise, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 115, 118-19 (2007) (acknowledging that while
hunches may be developed from real world experience, they are unreliable, shaped
by racial stereotypes, burdensome to law enforcement, and unreviewable), and
Harold Baer, Jr., Got a Bad Feeling? Is That Enough? The Irrationality of Police
Hunches, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 91, 103 (2007) ("Until law enforcement agencies
spend more time and money addressing the problems that arise from their culture,
training and, in some locales, education, the hunch will remain problematical
and occasionally unjust."), with Craig S. Lerner, Judges Policing Hunches, 4
J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 25, 25 (2007) ("Emotions and intuitions are not obstacles to
reason, but indispensable heuristic devices that allow people to process
diffuse, complex information about their environment and make sense of the
world.").





n315.  Cf. Andrew E. Taslitz, Fortune-Telling and the Fourth Amendment: Of
Terrorism, Slippery Slopes, and Predicting the Future, 58 Rutgers L. Rev. 195,
201 (2005) ("What is less often emphasized is that Katz faced the Justices with
the question whether it is possible to authorize a search for non-existent
evidence - evidence that may or may not come into being in the future.").





n316.  But cf. Steinbock, supra note 18, at 38 ("The Fourth Amendment permits
interferences with liberty and privacy based on predictions, often made by field
officers, without notice to or consultation with the suspect.").





n317.  See Frank Rudy Cooper, "Who's the Man?": Masculinities Studies, Terry
Stops, and Police Training, 18 Colum. J. Gender & L. 671, 729-32 (2009)
(criticizing police training programs for cultivating the culture of machismo
and militarism that leads to police violence); James Forman, Jr., Community
Policing and Youth as Assets, 95 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 1, 14 (2004)
(discussing police-citizen tension caused by "belittling remarks, illegitimate
orders, and cursing" by police during stops).





n318.  See Minnesota v. Dickerson, 508 U.S. 366, 373 (1993) ("Where a police
officer observes unusual conduct which leads him reasonably to conclude in light
of his experience that criminal activity may be afoot ... the officer may
briefly stop the suspicious person and make reasonable inquiries aimed at
confirming or dispelling his suspicions." (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n319.  Mich. Dep't of State Police v. Sitz, 496 U.S. 444, 465 (1990) (Stevens,
J., dissenting) ("Those who have found - by reason of prejudice or misfortune -
that encounters with the police may become adversarial or unpleasant without
good cause will have grounds for worrying at any stop designed to elicit signs
of suspicious behavior. Being stopped by the police is distressing even when it
should not be terrifying, and what begins mildly may by happenstance turn
severe."); David Rudovsky, Law Enforcement by Stereotypes and Serendipity:
Racial Profiling and Stops and Searches Without Cause, 3 U. Pa. J. Const. L.
296, 334 (2001) ("It is precisely at this intersection of crime, race and,
police stop and frisk practices that the underlying social and legal conflicts
most often are manifested, and not infrequently in sharp and violent
confrontations.").





n320.  See, e.g., Joshua A.T. Fairfield & Erik Luna, Digital Innocence, 99
Cornell L. Rev. 981, 1031 (2014) (arguing that defendants have a right to
government-created exculpatory big data).





n321.  See, e.g., United States v. Grubbs, 547 U.S. 90, 95 n.2 (2006) ("Probable
cause may cease to exist after a warrant is issued. The police may learn, for
instance, that contraband is no longer located at the place to be searched.");
United States v. Watson, 423 U.S. 411, 432 n.5 (1976) (Powell, J., concurring)
("But in some cases the original grounds supporting the warrant could be
disproved by subsequent investigation that at the same time turns up wholly new
evidence supporting probable cause on a different theory.").





n322.  See, e.g., Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Constitutional Culpability:
Questioning the New Exclusionary Rules, 66 Fla. L. Rev. 623, 648-52 (2014)
(discussing recklessness in the context of Fourth Amendment violations).





n323.  Cf., e.g., Steven A. Drizin & Beth A. Colgan, Let the Cameras Roll:
Mandatory Videotaping of Interrogations Is the Solution to Illinois' Problem of
False Confessions, 32 Loy. U. Chi. L.J. 337, 385-88 (2001) (discussing a
proposed law in Illinois that would have required videotaping confessions for
certain crimes and made inadmissible confessions not videotaped).





n324.  Many police officers are required to document certain police-citizen
encounters after the fact. Jeffrey Fagan & Garth Davies, Street Stops and Broken
Windows: Terry, Race, and Disorder in New York City, 28 Fordham Urb. L.J. 457,
487-88 (2000) (describing the NYPD's use of UF-250 cards to record
police-citizen encounters).





n325.  Cf., e.g., ABA Standards for Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement Access to
Third Party Records § 25-7.1 (3d ed. 2013), available at
http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/criminal_justice_standar
ds/third_party_access.authcheckdam.pdf (recommending accountability mechanisms
for databases used by law enforcement).





n326.  See generally Ferguson, Predictive Policing, supra note 29, at 265-69
(discussing the use of algorithms to predict crime and allocate law enforcement
resources).





n327.  See Braga et al., supra note 225, at 9 ("Criminological evidence on the
spatial concentration of crime suggests that a small number of highly active
micro places in cities - frequently called "hot spots' - may be primarily
responsible for overall citywide crime trends."); see also Joel M. Caplan et
al., Risk Terrain Modeling: Brokering Criminological Theory and GIS Methods for
Crime Forecasting, 28 Just. Q. 360, 364 (2011) ("While a crime event occurs at a
finite place, risk is a continuous dynamic value that increases or decreases
intensity and clusters or dissipates in different places over time, even places
remote from a crime event."); Shane D. Johnson et al., Offender as Forager? A
Direct Test of the Boost Account of Victimization, 25 J. Quantitative
Criminology 181, 184 (2009) (positing that the clustering of crimes could be
explained by optimal foraging strategies); Shane D. Johnson et al., Space-Time
Patterns of Risk: A Cross National Assessment of Residential Burglary
Victimization, 23 J. Quantitative Criminology 201, 203-04 (2007) ("Most
criminals commit crimes in areas with which they are already familiar."); Ashley
B. Pitcher & Shane D. Johnson, Exploring Theories of Victimization Using a
Mathematical Model of Burglary, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 83, 85-86 (2011)
(discussing two theories that seek to explain the near-repeat phenomenon).





n328.  See generally Goode, supra note 226, at A11 (reporting on anticipatory
police deployments in Santa Cruz, California); Predictive Policing: Don't Even
Think About It, Economist, July 20, 2013, at 24, 24-26 (describing data-driven
police resource allocation); Leslie A. Gordon, Predictive Policing May Help Bag
Burglars - But It May Also Be a Constitutional Problem, ABA Journal (Sept. 1,
2013, 3:40 AM), http://www.abajournal.com/magazine/article/predictive_policing
_may_help_bag_burglars--but_it_may_also_be_a_constitutio/, archived at
http://perma.cc/J3L3-U9NN (discussing constitutional concerns relating to
predictive policing); Kaste, supra note 219 (reporting on forward-looking
policing strategies used in Seattle and other cities).





n329.  See Charlie Beck & Colleen McCue, Predictive Policing: What Can We Learn
from Wal-Mart and Amazon About Fighting Crime in a Recession?, Police Chief
(Nov. 2009),
http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuseaction=display_arch&ar
ticle_id=1942&issue_id=112009, archived at http://perma.cc/D6DP-UYAS ("
Predictive policing allows command staff and police managers to leverage
advanced analytics in support of meaningful, information-based tactics,
strategy, and policy decisions in the applied public safety environment. As the
law enforcement community increasingly is asked to do more with less, predictive
policing represents an opportunity to prevent crime and respond more
effectively, while optimizing increasingly scarce or limited resources,
including personnel.").





n330.  U.S. Dep't of Justice, Fusion Center Guidelines: Developing and Sharing
Information and Intelligence in a New Era F-3 (2006), available at
http://www.it.ojp.gov/documents/fusion_center_guidelines.pdf (defining a fusion
center as "[a] collaborative effort of two or more agencies that provide
resources, expertise, and/or information ... with the goal of maximizing the
ability to detect, prevent, apprehend, and respond to criminal and terrorism
activity"); see also Mimi Hall, Feds Move to Share Intelligence Faster, USA
Today, July 27, 2006, at 3A (reporting that state fusion centers are run by
"state police, FBI agents, National Guard, health officials and others").





n331.  Cf., e.g., Kelly, supra note 152 (describing the rise in use of cell
phone information-gathering devices by police departments).





n332.  Scott Decker et al., Project Safe Neighborhoods: Strategic Interventions
18 (2007), available at
https://www.bja.gov/publications/strategic_prob_solving.pdf.





n333.  Id. at 17-19.





n334.  See United States v. Dingle, 114 F.3d 307, 309 (D.C. Cir. 1997)
(recounting expert testimony on practices used by drug dealers for packaging and
distributing crack cocaine).





n335.  For an interesting story on how data about guns used in violent crime can
be tracked and studied, see David S. Fallis, Tracing Secrets, Wash. Post, Oct.
24, 2010, at A1, which reports the findings of a Washington Post investigation
into the sources of guns used in crimes - most notably that one dealer sold more
than 2500 guns later recovered by police.





n336.  See, e.g., Today: Rossen Reports (NBC television broadcast June 5, 2013),
available at
http://www.today.com/news/police-admit-theyre-stumped-mystery-car-thefts-6C10169
993 (reporting on a series of car thefts committed using a device that quickly
bypasses electronic locks).





n337.  Jimmy Gurule, The Money Laundering Control Act of 1986: Creating a New
Federal Offense or Merely Affording Federal Prosecutors an Alternative Means of
Punishing Specified Unlawful Activity?, 32 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 823, 823 (1995)
(describing money laundering as the "lifeblood" of organized crime); see also
Money Laundering Legislation: Hearing on S. 572, S. 1335, and S. 1385 Before the
S. Comm. on the Judiciary, 99th Cong. 30 (1985) (statement of Sen. DeConcini,
Member, S. Comm. on the Judiciary) ("Without the means to launder money, thereby
making cash generated by a criminal enterprise appear to come from a legitimate
source, organized crime could not flourish as it now does.").





n338.  See, e.g., Richard K. Gordon, Losing the War Against Dirty Money:
Rethinking Global Standards on Preventing Money Laundering and Terrorism
Financing, 21 Duke J. Comp. & Int'l L. 503, 527-28 (2011) (describing the "red
flags" used by the Treasury Department's financial intelligence unit, FinCEN, to
identify money laundering).





n339.  See, e.g., Philip K. Chan et al., Distributed Data Mining in Credit Card
Fraud Detection, IEEE Intelligent Systems, Nov.-Dec. 1999, at 67, 68 (providing
technical details of specific credit card fraud identification algorithms);
Scott R. Peppet, Prostitution 3.0?, 98 Iowa L. Rev. 1989, 2039-40 (2013)
(suggesting data with which to estimate the likelihood that a prostitute is a
victim of human trafficking); Peter P. Swire, Privacy and Information Sharing in
the War on Terrorism, 51 Vill. L. Rev. 951, 964 (2006) (discussing the "out of
pattern" system for identifying credit card fraud).





n340.  Bernhard Warner, Google Turns to Big Data to Unmask Human Traffickers,
Bloomberg Businessweek (Apr. 10, 2013),
http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2013-04-10/google-turns-to-big-data-to-unma
sk-human-traffickers, archived at http://perma.cc/3CSC-RDUJ ("The [Google-led]
alliance ... means the three anti-trafficking networks ... will share data on
where the emergency phone calls are originating, the ages of the victims, their
home countries, and the types of criminal activities they have been forced
into... . The agencies will be able to crunch data like this in real time to
detect crime trends that they can then share with police and policymakers to
help protect victims.").





n341.  See, e.g., Ben Austen, Public Enemies: Social Media Is Fueling Gang Wars
in Chicago, Wired (Sept. 17, 2013, 6:30 AM),
http://www.wired.com/2013/09/gangs-of-social-media/, archived at
http://perma.cc/3L5H-L2M2 (describing escalating gang tensions via Twitter and
YouTube).





n342.  See, e.g., Erica Fink & Laurie Segall, Pimps Hit Social Networks to
Recruit Underage Sex Workers, CNNMoney, (Feb. 27, 2013, 7:30 AM),
http://money.cnn.com/2013/02/27/technology/social/pimps-social-networks,
archived at http://perma.cc/S4BU-LEUK (reporting on the use of Facebook and
other social media sites to lure victims into becoming sex workers).





n343.  See generally Online Privacy, Social Networking, and Crime Victimization:
Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Crime, Terrorism, & Homeland Sec. of the H. Comm.
on the Judiciary, 111th Cong. 5-12 (2010) (statement of Gordon M. Snow, Asst.
Dir., FBI) (discussing ways in which cybercriminals use social media to deceive
victims).





n344.  Jennifer Bachner, IBM Ctr. for the Bus. of Gov't, Predictive Policing:
Preventing Crime with Data and Analytics 15-16 (2013), available at
http://www.businessofgovernment.org/sites/default/files/Predictive%20Policing.pd
f. (suggesting that criminals prefer "areas with desirable escape routes,"
including "areas in close proximity to features such as interstate highways,
bridges, and tunnels").





n345.  See Andras Petho, David S. Fallis & Dan Keating, Acoustic Sensors Reveal
Hidden Depth of Gun Use in D.C., Wash. Post, Nov. 2, 2013, at A1 (describing
data from the District of Columbia's acoustic "ShotSpotter" system, which had
identified 39,000 separate instances of gunfire, many of which were clustered
geographically).





n346.  Goldstein, supra note 294, at A1 (discussing efforts by the NYPD to
reduce domestic violence).





n347.  Robert Lipton et al., The Geography of Violence, Alcohol Outlets, and
Drug Arrests in Boston, 108 Am. J. Pub. Health 657, 661 (2013) (suggesting "a
positive relationship between violent crime and the presence of package stores,"
but "a negative relationship between violent crime and the presence of
restaurants selling beer and wine."); see also Press Release, Univ. of Mich.
Health Sys., Could a Computer on the Police Beat Prevent Violence? (Feb. 18,
2013), available at
http://www.uofmhealth.org/news/archive/201302/could-computer-police-beat-prevent
-violence ("Results from the study indicate that types and densities of alcohol
outlets were directly related to violent crimes despite the fact that alcohol
outlets are typically viewed as locations in which other population or
environmental factors, such as poverty or prostitution, relate to the
violence.").





n348.  Cope, supra note 24, at 193 ("Data quality affected the development of
analysis. Analysts frequently found crucial details missing from intelligence
reports for their products.").





n349.  See, e.g., Eric J. Mitnick, Procedural Due Process and Reputational Harm:
Liberty as Self-Invention, 43 U.C. Davis L. Rev. 79, 126 (2009) (noting that
while most databases are supposed to be subject to quality control, "in reality
... , the evidence is overwhelming that the control measures currently in place
regularly fail, either due to lack of resources, skill, or because they are
simply neglected"); Wright, supra note 121, at 122 (finding quality control
lacking in one database where no reports were questioned by superiors; the
officers making some of the reports had no gang experience, and there were no
reviews for accuracy).





n350.  See Jeff Morganteen, What the CompStat Audit Reveals About the NYPD, N.Y.
World (July 3, 2013), http://www.thenewyorkworld.com/2013/07/03/compstat/,
archived at http://perma.cc/K4ZP-KR4L ("The outside audit ... not only confirmed
that such data manipulation takes place but found several weak points in the
ways the department tracks and uncovers it."); see also David N. Kelley & Sharon
L. McCarthy, The Report of the Crime Reporting Review Committee to Commissioner
Raymond W. Kelly Concerning Compstat Auditing 47 (2013), available at
http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/downloads/pdf/public_information/crime_reporting_re
view_committee_final_report_2013.pdf ("The patterns of the misclassified reports
support in some measure the anecdotal accounts ... that certain types of
incidents may be downgraded as a matter of practice in some precincts.").





n351.  Herring v. United States, 555 U.S. 135, 155 (2009) (Ginsburg, J.,
dissenting) ("The risk of error stemming from these databases is not slim.
Herring's amici warn that law enforcement databases are insufficiently monitored
and often out of date. Government reports describe, for example, flaws in NCIC
databases, terrorist watchlist databases, and databases associated with the
Federal Government's employment eligibility verification system." (footnotes and
citation omitted)).





n352.  See, e.g., Mitnick, supra note 349, at 126; Wright, supra note 121, at
129 ("In sum, gang databases appear to be riddled with factual inaccuracies,
administrative errors, lack of compliance with departmental guidelines, and lack
of oversight.").





n353.  Roberto Concepcion, Jr., Need Not Apply: The Racial Disparate Impact of
Pre-Employment Criminal Background Checks, 19 Geo. J. on Poverty L. & Pol'y 231,
246-48 (2012) (highlighting the high cost of false positives in pre-employment
queries of criminal records databases).





n354.  See Ylan Q. Mui, Use of FBI Database in Hiring Raises Concerns, WASH.
POST, July 30, 2013, at A1 (discussing a report by the National Employment Law
Project on errors in FBI background checks).





n355.  See, e.g., Anita Ramasastry, Lost in Translation? Data Mining, National
Security and the "Adverse Inference" Problem, 22 Santa Clara Computer & High
Tech. L.J. 757, 775-76 (2006) (discussing reports of errors and inaccuracies in
credit reports); Tal Z. Zarsky, Governmental Data Mining and Its Alternatives,
116 Penn St. L. Rev. 285, 298 (2011) (discussing the problem of errors in data
mining processes).





n356.  60 Minutes: 40 Million Mistakes: Is Your Credit Report Accurate? (CBS
television broadcast Feb. 10, 2013), available at
http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-18560_162-57567957/credit/.





n357.  Cf. Wayne J. Pitts, From the Benches and Trenches: Dealing with
Outstanding Warrants for Deceased Individuals: A Research Brief, 30 Just. Sys.
J. 219, 220 (2009) (describing a study that discovered numerous errors in a
warrant database, including incorrect social security numbers, inaccurate names,
and "illogical birth dates," and noting that "none of the[] issues are
surprising or unusual given the nature of the population being tracked").





n358.  Herring v. United States, 555 U.S. 135, 155-56 (2009) (Ginsburg, J.,
dissenting) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n359.  See Brendan Sasso, FTC Chief Targets Firms with Vast Databases, Hill
(Aug. 19, 2013, 9:12 PM),
http://thehill.com/policy/technology/317729-ftc-chief-targets-firms-with-vast-da
tabases, archived at http://perma.cc/8HTB-SE4W (reporting that the head of the
FTC stated that the agency "will use its power to punish deceptive business
practices [and] to crack down on firms that fail to live up to their own
promises about how they will use their customers' data"). See generally FTC,
Data Brokers: A Call for Transparency and Accountability 46-56 (2014), available
at
http://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/reports/data-brokers-call-transparency
-accountability-report-federal-trade-commission-may-2014/140527databrokerreport.
pdf (presenting findings of an FTC study of large data brokers and recommending
reforms).





n360.  For example, the House Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence have legislative oversight of the intelligence
agencies. The House Committee on the Judiciary, the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary, the House Committee on Homeland Security, the Senate Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and others have oversight of
domestic surveillance. Independent agencies such as the Privacy and Civil
Liberties Oversight Board have general oversight. The Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court provides some judicial oversight. General counsels and
inspectors general add additional layers of protection.





n361.  For example, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court released a
redacted opinion offering insight into problems with overcollection of phone
records by the National Security Agency. See [Redacted], [Redacted], 2011 WL
10945618 (FISA Ct. Oct. 3, 2011). In its October 2011 opinion, the court
revealed that it could review only samples of the NSA-collected data due to the
incredible number of search queries and volume of data involved with the NSA's
operations. See id. at 10; see also In re Order Requiring Production of Tangible
Things From [Redacted], 2013 WL 5741573, at 10-14 (FISA Ct. Aug. 29, 2013) (No.
BR 13-109) (setting guidelines for review of NSA metadata-related surveillance
programs); Majority Staff, Senate Comm. on Commerce, Sci. & Transp., 113th
Congress., A Review of the Data Broker Industry: Collection, Use, and Sale of
Consumer Data for Marketing Purposes (2013), available at
http://www.commerce.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=0d2b3642-6221-4888-
a631-08f2f255b577 (providing an example of a congressional investigation into
data brokers and the collection of personal information).





n362.  See Solove, Data Mining, supra note 177, at 359 ("Another key issue
regarding the liberty side of the balance is transparency - the degree of
openness by which a particular security measure is carried out. Transparency is
essential to promote accountability and to provide the public with a way to
ensure that government officials are not engaging in abuse.").





n363.  Cf. Taslitz, supra note 311, at 10 ("Any concept of reasonable suspicion
... that tolerates massive false negative rates - frequent invasions of privacy,
property, and locomotive rights that ensnare the apparently innocent - is a
flawed conception. The costs imposed on communities and individuals become
great, while little in the way of crime-control efforts is achieved.").





n364.  See supra Part III.





n365.  Of course, these individuals might also be targeted without a big
data-inspired list.





n366.  See David Wolitz, The Stigma of Conviction: Coram Nobis, Civil
Disabilities, and the Right to Clear One's Name, 2009 BYU L. Rev. 1277, 1316
(arguing that a criminal conviction is a "uniquely stigmatizing piece of
information" and that it disproportionately affects a person's reputational
profile).





n367.  See Robin Walker Sterling, Raising Race, Champion, Apr. 2011, at 24,
24-25 ("The criminal justice system has exploded outside of the prison walls, as
well. As of 2009, the number of people under criminal justice supervision -
including those who are in jail, in prison, on probation, and on parole -
totaled 7.2 million people. In a dismaying parallel to incarceration rates,
people of color are also overrepresented among arrestees, probationers, and
parolees. There are more African Americans under correctional control today than
were enslaved in 1850... . With numbers like these, it is clear that this
overrepresentation of minorities in the criminal justice system, or
disproportionate minority contact (DMC), is one of the major human rights
violations of our time." (footnotes omitted)).





n368.  ACLU, The War on Marijuana in Black and White 17-22 (2013), available at
https://www.aclu.org/files/assets/aclu-thewaronmarijuana-rel2.pdf (reporting
that blacks are roughly four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana
possession than whites despite similar usage rates); see also Steven Nelson,
ACLU Marijuana Study: Blacks More Likely to be Busted, U.S. News & World Rep.
(June 4, 2013, 5:26 PM),
http://www.usnews.com/news/newsgram/articles/2013/06/04/aclu-marijuana-study-bla
cks-more-likely-to-be-busted, archived at http://perma.cc/W5DS-ZBUG (reporting
on the ACLU study).





n369.  See Cohen, supra note 7, at 1922 ("It is beyond serious question that the
techniques that comprise Big Data offer vitally important strategies for
promoting human flourishing in an increasingly complex, crowded, and
interdependent world. But those techniques cannot themselves decide which
questions to investigate, cannot instruct us how to place data flows and
patterns in larger conceptual or normative perspective, and cannot tell us
whether and when it might be fair and just to limit data processing in the
service of other values.").





n370.  Thank you to the discussants at Northeastern University School of Law's
Legal Scholarship 4.0 conference for developing the concept of "criminal
ratings."





n371.  Thank you to the discussants at the criminal law professor workshop at
the Washington College of Law, American University, for developing this
argument.





n372.  Cf. Taslitz, supra note 311, at 44-45 (discussing the potential for
extrapolation from past experience despite insufficient information).





n373.  See Tracey G. Gove, Implicit Bias and Law Enforcement, Police Chief, Oct.
2011, at 44, 50 ("The study of implicit bias has important implications for
police leaders. Police officers are human and, as the theory contends, may be
affected by implicit biases just as any other individual. In other words,
well-intentioned officers who err may do so not as a result of intentional
discrimination, but because they have what has been proffered as widespread
human biases.").





n374.  Richardson, supra note 312, at 271-72.





n375.  See Mary Fan, Street Diversion and Decarceration, 50 Am. Crim. L. Rev.
165, 192 (2013) ("A rich body of literature has documented how implicit biases -
negative perceptions of minorities that may unconsciously lurk despite best
intentions - impact the judgment of an array of actors, such as police,
prosecutors, and jurors.").





n376.  Barbara O'Brien, Prime Suspect: An Examination of Factors That Aggravate
and Counteract Confirmation Bias in Criminal Investigations, 15 Psychol. Pub.
Pol'y & L. 315, 315 (2009); see also id. at 318 (noting that "police
investigators are also prone to confirmation bias").





n377.  See Richard Winton et al., LAPD to Build Data on Muslim Areas, L.A.
Times, Nov. 9, 2007, at A1 (describing a police initiative to identify areas
"at-risk" for terrorist activities based on ethnicity); Richard Winton et al.,
Outcry Over Muslim Mapping, L.A. Times, Nov. 10, 2007, at A1 (same).





n378.  See United States v. Martinez-Fuerte, 428 U.S. 543, 554 (1976) (noting
that the purpose of the Fourth Amendment is to protect against "arbitrary and
oppressive interference by enforcement officials with the privacy and personal
security of individuals").





n379.  See Jed Rubenfeld, The End of Privacy, 61 Stan. L. Rev. 101, 118 (2008)
("The government's law enforcement power is unique... . The ability of
government to intrude, monitor, punish, and regulate is greater than that of
private actors by many orders of magnitude. But more than this, the state has a
right and duty to intrude into people's lives that private parties do not... .
But precisely because the state's law enforcement power gives it a license to
intrude into our homes and lives in ways that private parties cannot, the state
poses dangers to a free citizenry that private parties do not.").





n380.  See Neil M. Richards, The Dangers of Surveillance, 126 Harv. L. Rev.
1934, 1946-48 (2013) (discussing the dangers to intellectual privacy from
surveillance).





n381.  Harold J. Krent, Of Diaries and Data Banks: Use Restrictions Under the
Fourth Amendment, 74 Tex. L. Rev. 49, 60 (1995) ("Particularly in light of new
technology, privacy is threatened as much by what law enforcement authorities do
with information as by the original acquisition itself.").





n382.  See generally Jane Yakowitz Bambauer, The New Intrusion, 88 Notre Dame L.
Rev. 205, 257-73 (2012) (suggesting that expanded tort law could help address
violations of data privacy, including harm from subsequent disclosures); Andrew
Jay McClurg, Bringing Privacy Law Out of the Closet: A Tort Theory of Liability
for Intrusions in Public Places, 73 N.C. L. Rev. 989, 1076 (1995) (discussing
the demise of the tort of public disclosure of private facts and the resulting
gap in privacy law); Paul Ohm, The Fourth Amendment in a World Without Privacy,
81 Miss. L.J. 1309, 1334-35 (2012) (arguing that in a world of vanishing
privacy, a view of the Fourth Amendment as addressing a balance of power between
government and the people is more appropriate than limiting it strictly to a
right to privacy).





n383.  Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690, 695 (1996) (quoting Illinois v.
Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 231 (1983)).





n384.  While beyond the scope of this Article, there may be an unarticulated
taxonomy of reasonable suspicion that applies differently in different
circumstances based on the type of crime at issue. It may be that an analysis of
big data's impact simply reveals this unacknowledged truth.





n385.  One reason the Terry court seemed willing to create a standard less than
probable cause was because practicality demanded it. Detective McFadden simply
could not obtain any other information about John Terry without stopping him. If
McFadden let the suspects go, he might never have been able to identify them.
Big data suspicion changes one part of that calculus - information is now
available to police without leaving the scene. Information about the suspect may
alter the level of suspicion, even in potentially violent and imminent crimes.
In addition, identifying suspects for certain possession offenses may allow
police to monitor the suspects without necessarily stopping them at that moment.





n386.  Kalee Thompson, The Santa Cruz Experiment, Popular Sci., Nov. 2011, at
38, 40 (describing a prediction in Santa Cruz, California, that on "Linden
Street, where, the statistics reveal, there is a 2.06 percent chance of a crime
happening today, and 3:1 odds that a crime, should it occur, will be a home
break-in versus an auto theft").





n387.  See Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 68, at 1607-22 (discussing cases in
which courts have handled evidence of and sought to define "high-crime" areas).





n388.  See, e.g., Max Minzner, Putting Probability Back into Probable Cause, 87
Tex. L. Rev. 913, 958 (2009) (arguing that judges should be allowed to consider
success rates when dealing with probable cause claims and warrants); Taslitz,
supra note 315, at 202-04 (discussing the qualitative and quantitative
requirements the Supreme Court uses for anticipatory warrants).





n389.  See, e.g., Christopher Slobogin, A Jurisprudence of Dangerousness, 98 Nw.
U. L. Rev. 1, 50-58 (2003) (discussing proportionality and consistency
principles).





n390.  See, e.g., Christopher Slobogin, Dangerousness and Expertise Redux, 56
Emory L.J. 275, 277, 288-93 (2006) (highlighting the advantages and
disadvantages of using actuarial prediction techniques and clinical techniques).





n391.  United States v. Hensley, 469 U.S. 221, 227-29 (1985).





n392.  For a wonderfully insightful analysis of how individualization has been
analyzed in the Fourth Amendment context, see Bambauer, supra note 303.





n393.  See Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Personal Curtilage: Fourth Amendment
Security in Public, 55 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 1283, 1327-31 (2014) (discussing the
importance of protecting against arbitrary government action as part of the
"security" focus of the Fourth Amendment).





n394.  Richard Gordon, Terrorism Financing Indicators for Financial Institutions
in the United States, 44 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 765, 779 (2012) ("Link
analysis explores associations within collections of data.").





n395.  See, e.g., U.S. Gov't Accountability Office, GAO-06-1031, Terrorist Watch
List Screening: Efforts to Help Reduce Adverse Effects on the Public 2 (2006),
available at http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d061031.pdf ("Because terrorist watch
list screening involves comparisons based on personal-identifying information
such as names and dates of birth, there is potential to generate
misidentifications - given that two or more persons, for example, may have the
same or similar names."); McIntire, supra note 120, at A1 (describing how some
targets of the government's terrorist watch list are "victims of errors in
judgment or simple mistaken identity").





n396.  See generally, e.g., R. Dwayne Betts, A Question of Freedom: A Memoir of
Survival, Learning, and Coming of Age in Prison (2009) (recounting the author's
eight years in Virginia prisons and the effect it had on his life); Shon Hopwood
with Dennis Burke, Law Man: My Story of Robbing Banks, Winning Supreme Court
Cases, and Finding Redemption (2012) (detailing the life story of a bank
robber-turned jailhouse lawyer); Lonnae O'Neal Parker, From Inmate to Mentor,
Through the Power of Books, Wash. Post, Oct. 2, 2006, at A1 (recounting the
story of Dwayne Betts, who served time before reforming and starting a book club
for youth).





n397.  See David Smith, Proof! Just Six Degrees of Separation Between Us,
Observer, Aug. 3, 2008, at 7 (reporting that Microsoft studied email
communications and found an average of 6.6 degrees of separation between any two
people).





n398.  John Markoff & Somini Sengupta, Separating You and Me? 4.74 Degrees, N.Y.
Times, Nov. 21, 2011, at B1.





n399.  See supra p. 330.





n400.  Rushin, supra note 154, at 288 ("Facial recognition software has already
been combined with video surveillance and used by law enforcement to identify
potential suspects amongst large crowds.").


                               3 of 13 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2015 U.C. Hastings College of the Law
                              Hastings Law Journal

                                  2015 - 2016

                              Hastings Law Journal

                              67 Hastings L.J. 195

LENGTH: 33040 words

Article: Databasing Delinquency

NAME: Kevin Lapp*

BIO: * Associate Professor of Law, Loyola Law School, Los Angeles. This Article
benefitted from presentations at the American Association of Law Schools
("AALS") 2015 Annual Meeting, the American Bar Association's 2014 Fall Institute
on Criminal Justice, the 2015 Southern California Criminal Justice Roundtable,
and the 2014 Southern California Junior Faculty Workshop. Specific thanks to
Alexandra Natapoff, Jason Cade, Katie Tinto, Beth Colgan, Tamar Birckhead,
Elizabeth Pollman, Annette Ruth Appell, Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Sam Pillsbury,
and Adam Zimmerman for their valuable suggestions on earlier drafts.

HIGHLIGHT:

   Technological advances in recent decades have enabled an unprecedented level
of surveillance by the government and permitted law enforcement to gather,
store, and retrieve in real time enormous amounts of data. After nearly a
century of limited record-making and enhanced confidentiality regarding
juveniles, these data collection practices have quickly expanded to include
youth. This Article uncovers the vast extent of modern data collection and
distribution about juveniles by the criminal justice system from juvenile sex
offender registration and their inclusion in gang and DNA databases, to schools
turned into mandated law enforcement informants, to police and courts
increasingly sharing juvenile records with employers, public housing
authorities, colleges, and the general public.

   The expansion of this modern culture of "dataveillance" to youth has profound
implications. It not only harms individual youth in permanent and stigmatizing
ways, it reshapes the very meaning of childhood, breaching its protected space
and contradicting the special understandings that dominate the regulation of
youth. It also distorts perceptions of juveniles in ways that have lasting
policy consequences. Moreover, this distortion is visited especially heavily on
minority youth and constitutes an engine of racial bias and punitive reforms in
its own right.

   Putting the developmental characteristics of youth, and childhood, at the
center of the analysis, this Article reveals the incoherence and destructiveness
of databasing delinquency. Mindful of the public safety benefits and
inevitability of law enforcement information gathering, it calls for reforms
that would limit the amount of information gathered, stored, and shared about
juveniles. These reforms would add appropriate restraints to law enforcement
data collection so that public safety gains from databasing do not come at the
expense of juvenile privacy, juveniles' life chances, or childhood itself.


 TEXT:
 [*196]

   Introduction


   Technological and scientific advances in recent decades have enabled an
unprecedented level of surveillance and permitted law enforcement to gather,
store, and retrieve in real time enormous amounts of data. From computerized rap
sheets and DNA databases to sex offender and other registries, records of a
person's contact with the criminal justice system no longer rest in a file
folder or card catalog in a  [*197]  local precinct. Instead, they reside
indefinitely on law enforcement servers and, in many cases, the publicly
searchable Internet. n1

   For most of the last century, the criminal justice system limited
recordmaking and increased the confidentiality of data about juveniles. n2 That
reticence and protectiveness no longer prevails because it has been overwhelmed
by technology and a fervid commitment to data collection. Today, the criminal
justice system collects and stores a tremendous amount of information about
juveniles. n3 State and federal laws compel thousands of young people to
register as sex offenders and provide personal information that is posted
online, and mandate DNA collection from juveniles as a result of delinquency
adjudications and arrests. Children as young as ten years old are entered into
databases of known and suspected gang members (often in the absence of an arrest
or even a suspicion of wrongdoing). Public schools across the nation are
required to notify law enforcement when students commit certain behaviors at
school, and law enforcement agencies return the favor, providing schools with
criminal or delinquency information. n4 All of this supplements the information
collected by police during street encounters and bookings and the records
amassed and maintained by criminal and juvenile courts, the numbers of which
have also greatly expanded in recent years. Public and private services
aggregate much of this information, making it available to law enforcement
nationwide, private employers, public housing authorities, colleges, and the
general public, often at no cost. n5

   In the late 1980s, Roger Clarke offered the term "dataveillance" as a way to
conceptualize the new forms of surveillance facilitated by the  [*198]
widespread use of computer-based technology. n6 This Article critically examines
the expansion of the modern culture of "dataveillance" to youth. Collectively,
the robust and expanding data collection and distribution practices described in
this paper produce what I call criminal justice biographies of young people. n7
These one-sided, negative biographies written by a coercive institution label
youth in permanent and stigmatizing ways. This harms individual youth and
distorts the perceptions of them as a group with lasting policy implications.
Yet, the literature on law enforcement surveillance on the one hand, and
traditional juvenile justice on the other, have yet to recognize, much less
fully grapple with, the databasing of delinquency.

   This Article reveals the incoherence and destructiveness of databasing
delinquency, and argues that we must rethink this practice. Mindful of the
public safety benefits and inevitability of law enforcement information
gathering, it calls for reforms that limit the amount of information gathered,
stored, and shared about juveniles. This would not prevent data collection, but
would instead add appropriate restraints so that public safety gains from
databasing do not come at the expense of privacy, juveniles' life chances, or
childhood itself.

   Part I sets the context. Instead of widely discussed constitutional
protections like the Fourth Amendment or privacy, n8 this Article examines
delinquency databasing through the lens of the constructed category of
childhood. Too little legal scholarship has critically examined the role of the
concept of childhood in shaping law and social practices, and the role that law
and social practices play in shaping the conceptions of childhood. n9 This
vacuum leaves juvenile justice scholarship less nuanced than it could be.
Drawing on the insights of critical childhood studies, n10 Part I establishes
the prevailing conception of childhood as a protected space separate from
[*199]  adult society. Marshaling adolescent brain science, psychosocial
research, and recent Supreme Court jurisprudence, it shows that young people's
vulnerability, their capacity for change, and their future as adult members of
society each play an important background role in guiding public policy
regarding youth.

   Part II uncovers the vast extent of modern delinquency databasing. It
explains how, despite youths' vulnerability to harm and capacity for change,
juveniles now find themselves indefinitely cataloged in sex offender registries,
gang databases, and DNA databases. It documents the unprecedented breadth and
permanence of law enforcement and court recordkeeping. It shows how schools have
become mandated law enforcement informants. And it maps the many ways that this
information travels within and outside of the criminal justice system.

   While extensive data collection and publicly available criminal records can
be a rational law enforcement strategy that promotes public safety, Part III
identifies the many harms that databasing delinquency inflicts on juveniles.
They include devastating impacts on their immediate lives in the form of
punishment, restrictions on their life choices, stigma, and (perhaps) increases
in recidivism. Compiled early in the life of their subject, when identities and
character are still taking shape, n11 and skewed in content, these criminal
justice biographies also distort perceptions of juveniles in ways that
facilitate support for punitive policies toward youth and discrimination against
them. This distortion and discrimination is visited especially heavily on
minority youth and constitutes an engine of racial bias in its own right.

   Part III further shows that databasing delinquency reshapes the very meaning
of childhood, breaching its protected space and contradicting the special
understandings that guide the regulation of youth. n12 Rather than honoring the
particular developmental characteristics of youth, databasing delinquency
ignores them and treats young people like adults. This contradicts the
long-dominant diversionary approach to juvenile wrongdoing n13 and gainsays the
fundamental message of a quartet of recent Supreme Court cases that criminal law
and the police cannot proceed against young people "as though they were not
children." n14

    [*200]  Cognizant that this is a critical time in the rebuilding of juvenile
justice norms, n15 Part IV proposes limitations on what information law
enforcement should gather, how long that information should be stored, and with
whom the information may be shared. The principles and values discussed in Part
I - young people's vulnerability, their capacity for change, and their future as
adult members of society - inform the recommendations. The proposed reforms
would reduce the short and long-term harms caused by databasing delinquency,
enabling the criminal justice system to promote public safety and hold juveniles
accountable without unduly hindering their development into productive adults.

   I. Childhood

 We recognize and accommodate many values when we choose how to marshal
technology's unprecedented data collection abilities for law enforcement
purposes. That we have extended the reach of law enforcement dataveillance to
juveniles necessarily injects the developmental characteristics of youth and the
purpose and meaning of childhood into the debate. Therefore, a brief
introduction to the concept of childhood is necessary.

   Childhood is an essential and permanent component of the social order. n16 It
is a natural fact - children are different from adults in known and measurable
ways. n17 Yet childhood marks something more than empirical, biological
realities or chronological age. n18 It is also a social construction, a
contingent category whose boundaries are not inevitable or fixed, but are
instead defined and maintained by law. n19 As such, childhood is the product of
our collective imagination, reflecting prevailing societal priorities and
aspirations. n20 This leads to varying definitions of the scope of childhood:
individuals cannot lawfully drive a vehicle until sixteen, vote  [*201]  until
eighteen, or drink alcohol until twenty-one. n21 The variety in cut-offs is
inevitable, as different activities require different levels of skill or
maturity. Wherever the lines between childhood and adulthood rest, the
expressive function of the law then feeds the law's definition(s) of childhood
back to society, shaping or reinforcing popular views of childhood. n22

   The prevailing conception of childhood today is "a protected space separated
from ... the broader adult society." n23 Childhood is separate from adulthood
because children are different from adults and require their own spaces, rules,
and institutions. n24 Childhood is protected because young people are
vulnerable. They make mistakes and have a greater capacity for change than
adults. As a result, the law applies special rules to young people. n25 Indeed,
it provides an entirely separate forum for adjudicating juvenile matters n26
that delivers youth-focused services and developmentally-appropriate levels of
accountability. As a matter of first principles, the law aims to avoid imposing
harsh, enduring consequences and stigmas so that juveniles do not carry the
burden of their youthful mistakes into adulthood. n27 The ultimate goal is "to
shepherd children into a self-sufficient, democratic, productive, and autonomous
adulthood." n28

   This Part explains how three foundational truths about youth - that they are
vulnerable, that they change, and that they are future adults - guide the law's
approach to childhood.

   A. Youth Are Vulnerable

 Young people by definition are immature. Juveniles are in "the earlier stages
of their emotional growth, their intellectual development is incomplete, they
have had only limited practical experience, and their value systems have not yet
been clearly identified or firmly adopted." n29 Their immaturity profoundly
impacts how they live their lives. First and foremost, it makes them vulnerable.
According to leading juvenile  [*202]  developmental psychologist Laurence
Steinberg, "adolescence is often a period of especially heightened
vulnerability." n30

   Two particular vulnerabilities of youth - their susceptibility to poor
decisionmaking and their physical and emotional immaturity - shape the legal
regulation of juveniles. Juveniles' incomplete cognitive and psychosocial
development undermines their ability to make competent decisions. n31 Young
people are less able to process information quickly and thoughtfully, and have
less general knowledge and experience to draw upon, leading to poorly reasoned
choices. n32 In addition, adolescents are less likely to consider the long-term
consequences of their actions, and are more reward sensitive and less risk
averse than adults. n33 This poor impulse control is compounded by the fact that
they are profoundly attuned to and influenced by peers. n34 Taken together,
these qualities often lead to delinquent behavior. Indeed, largely on account of
these attributes, offending peaks during late adolescence, n35 leading many to
consider delinquency a part of the normal life course. n36

   Their physical and emotional immaturity also makes youth especially
vulnerable to harm. Young people suffer specific, and often greater, harms as
youth, and they are more likely to suffer them because of their youth. n37 They
are, for example, more susceptible to suffering psychological harms than their
adult counterparts under similar circumstances. n38 They are especially
vulnerable to victimization in adult institutions, and are at a greater risk
than adult inmates of psychological harm and suicide. n39 Young people are also
particularly vulnerable to  [*203]  lasting problems as a result of stigma,
including mental health problems, substance abuse, and re-offending. n40
Moreover, particular practices, such as a life-long criminal record or a life
without parole sentence, impose greater harms on juveniles by virtue of the
simple fact that juveniles will live with the sanction longer. n41

   On account of their immaturity and vulnerability, the regulation of youth has
long been infused with the idea that they deserve special protections. n42 This
protective regime first came to legal fruition in the late nineteenth century,
when Progressive Era reformers (the so-called "child savers") passed compulsory
education laws, restricted child labor, and created the child welfare system and
juvenile court. n43 Over one hundred years later, it still prevails. Rules
protect juveniles from being subjected to the same procedures and punishments
imposed on adults. In civil tort proceedings, for example, children are judged
by a "reasonable person of like age, intelligence, and experience under like
circumstances" standard that leads to limited civil responsibility for damages
they cause. n44 To protect minors from "foolishly squandering their wealth
through improvident contracts with crafty adults who would take advantage of
them in the marketplace," n45 a contracting minor may repudiate the contract at
any time before reaching majority or within a reasonable time afterwards. n46

   The protective approach to childhood necessarily includes the criminal law.
The juvenile court was founded over a century ago on the proposition that
children are different from adults and should avoid the punitive and
stigmatizing consequences imposed by criminal court. n47 It survives today
because society continues to recognize that youth deserve a separate, more
protective forum that will impose accountability while  [*204]  honoring the
childhood of those before the court. Many protections extend to those juveniles
processed in criminal court. n48 For instance, the Supreme Court has held that
the death penalty cannot be constitutionally imposed on juveniles because their
"vulnerability and comparative lack of control over their immediate surroundings
mean juveniles have a greater claim than adults to be forgiven for failing to
escape negative influences in their whole environment." n49 Their vulnerability
similarly prevents law enforcement from ignoring childhood during criminal
investigations. n50

   This is not to say that youth are innocents. While vulnerable, juveniles are
autonomous actors who have the ability to recognize right from wrong, and they
exercise that autonomy by choosing, at times, to do bad things. n51 Moreover,
they require and respond to accountability. But youths' reduced culpability and
increased vulnerability to harm mean that the quantity of accountability
appropriate for juvenile behavior is necessarily limited. n52

   B. Youth Change

 Young people are developing in almost every arena: physically, biochemically,
intellectually, emotionally, and psychosocially. Their physical bodies undergo a
growth spurt between the ages of ten and eighteen, n53 and neuroscientists
describe adolescence as a period of profound social cognitive change. n54 It is
also a time when identity is taking  [*205]  shape and character forms. n55 As
the Supreme Court observed, "the signature qualities of youth are transient."
n56

   The dynamism of youth matters greatly to the law's response to juvenile
offending. As explained above, youths' immaturity contributes to delinquent
behavior. Yet most youth desist from delinquency as they mature into adulthood.
n57 Studies frequently find that only five percent to ten percent of adolescent
offenders continue offending in adulthood. n58 This is because many of the
factors associated with antisocial, risky, or criminal behavior lose their
intensity as individuals become more developmentally mature. n59 In fact, it has
proven nearly impossible to researchers to identify which few among the many
youthful offenders will persist into adulthood. n60

   Courts and policymakers have regularly affirmed the relevance of youths'
capacity for change to the proper regulation of childhood. It goes a long way in
explaining why juvenile court was invented, and why it aims to privilege
rehabilitation over punishment. The notion of change pervaded the words of one
of the nation's earliest juvenile court judges, who explained that the purpose
of the juvenile court was "not so much to punish as to reform, not to degrade
but to uplift, not to crush but to develop, not to make him a criminal but a
worthy citizen." n61 As such, delinquency adjudications do not necessarily
become part of a young person's permanent criminal record. n62 Instead, stricter
confidentiality provisions protect them against disclosure, and juvenile court
records  [*206]  typically can be sealed or expunged when the young person
reaches a particular age. n63

   Youth's capacity for change likewise protects them when they are charged in
criminal court. In a trio of recent sentencing cases, the Supreme Court
recognized that "the character of a juvenile is not as well formed as that of an
adult" and that their "personality traits ... are more transitory, less fixed."
n64 Because juveniles are more capable of change than are adults, "their actions
are less likely to be evidence of "irretrievably depraved character' than are
the actions of adults." n65 In short, "a greater possibility exists that a
minor's character deficiencies will be reformed." n66 As a result, the law seeks
to protect them from conclusive judgments and permanent legal disabilities.
According to the Supreme Court, "from a moral standpoint it would be misguided
to equate the failings of a minor with those of an adult." n67 The Constitution
thus forbids the imposition of the death penalty and mandatory life without
parole sentences for crimes committed by youth, and protects youthful offenders
from life without parole for non-homicide crimes. n68

   C. Youth (Ideally) Become (Productive) Adults

 Childhood is "a time-limited developmental category." n69 As leading critical
childhood scholars Allison James and Adrian James observed, "all children do
grow up and, in doing so, leave their "childhood' behind them." n70 That young
people will leave childhood and become adults has two important consequences for
the regulation of childhood. First, children must be taught social norms,
including that society imposes consequences for misbehavior. n71 Second, that
lesson must be delivered in a way that preserves their chances for a productive
adulthood. n72

    [*207]  The juvenile court was created to accomplish both those tasks. n73
Its purpose was to divert juveniles from the criminal process, and its
debilitating punishments and stigma, to a forum where their cases would be
handled by trained specialists dedicated to imposing accountability while
promoting the youth's rehabilitation. n74 Because children are future adults,
the criminal justice system as a whole - including law enforcement and criminal
courts - has a greater interest in promoting youth development and
rehabilitating those who offend than punishing, stigmatizing, and marginalizing
them. Thus, some jurisdictions have recently sought to make transfer of youth
charged with crimes to adult court more difficult n75 and attempted to minimize
the consequences for youth processed in criminal court through legislatively
created classifications like "Youthful Offender" status. n76 Other statutes
limit the amount of restitution juveniles may be ordered to pay to avoid
saddling them with debts that would cripple their transition to independent
adulthood. n77 These policies aim to protect youth from full accountability to
preserve their future life chances.

   These protective impulses reflect the view that severe punishments, permanent
disabilities, and lasting stigma for youthful mistakes do not serve the
long-term interests of society. While reforms have not gone as far as they
might, n78 the vulnerability of youth, their capacity for change,  [*208]  and
their future as adults have taken a more central role in policymaking in the
twenty-first century.

   One notable exception to this trend is law enforcement data collection, where
special protections for youth are falling away. Compiling criminal justice
biographies of youth disregards their vulnerability, discounts their capacity
for change, and makes more difficult the transition to adulthood. The next Part
describes those practices.

   II. The Delinquency Databases

 From street observation to cultivating informants, to fingerprints, body
measurements, and rap sheets, law enforcement has always collected and stored
data to help solve and prevent crime. n79 For decades, law enforcement stored
its data in the memories of individual constables and beat officers, or in
physical card catalogs at the station house. n80 The computer revolution of the
last thirty years has changed that, exponentially increasing the ability of law
enforcement to collect, store, retrieve, and share data. Computer technology has
enabled networked storage, powerful search capacity, real time updating, and
near instantaneous retrieval by officers in the station house and the field.

   This data and database revolution has received significant attention. n81
Still, few have considered the particular concerns raised by aggregating data
about young people. n82 As Part II of this Article demonstrates, in contrast to
decades of practices that mostly shielded young people from accumulating law
enforcement records, the criminal justice system today largely treats juveniles
like adults when it comes to the collection and retention of information.

   All told, the criminal justice system collects a remarkable amount of
information about youth: contacts with police, suspicions, misbehavior, arrests,
charges, convictions, and sentences. But it is not just criminal information
that is being collected, stored, and shared. Law enforcement collects genetic
samples from juveniles; it catalogs their friends, family, associations, and
movements; and the law requires that personal information of youth convicted or
adjudicated delinquent of sex offenses, such as their home address and school,
be posted on the Internet.

    [*209]  The following subpart exposes the broad, interconnected content of
this databasing. It then explains how these practices collectively result in
criminal justice biographies of youth.

   A. Gang Databases

 Law enforcement often collects data on individuals long before a crime is
committed or reported. It regularly compiles dossiers on and surveils those who
it believes are likely to be involved in crime. Just who gets enhanced attention
changes over time. n83 Today, a prime police target is poor, urban, minority
youth, especially those allegedly linked to the scourge of gangs. n84
Anticipating that these youth will become offenders, law enforcement seeks to
gather as much information as it can about them. The modern tool it uses to
collect, organize, and disseminate intelligence information prior to a criminal
case is the gang database.

   Gang databases are repositories for information about known and suspected
gang members. The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department instituted the first
modern gang database in 1987. n85 Similar gang databases are now maintained
across the nation at the local, state, and federal levels. n86 Gang databases
can include almost anything, but typically record the youth's name, address,
dress, tattoos, locations, behaviors, criminal histories, vehicles, school,
family, and friends. n87 Law enforcement collects the information entered into
the database primarily through routine stops on the street and in schools. n88

   Gang membership is not a crime, and a conviction is not necessary before an
individual's information can be entered into a gang database. n89 Indeed,
neither an arrest nor a criminal investigation need precipitate the
categorization of a youth as gang-involved. n90 Instead, police decide who gets
included. n91 Inclusion can be triggered by street encounters with police,
self-admission, or a combination of other indicators. In some jurisdictions,
[*210]  qualifying criteria are statutory. While that ostensibly limits police
discretion, the qualifying criteria can include vague (and perfectly lawful)
things such as "[being] in a photograph with a known gang member,"
"corresponding with known gang members," frequenting a gang area, or wearing
certain clothing. n92 In Victor Rios's study of Oakland youth, he described how
a fifteen-year-old who was not in a gang ended up in a gang database after he
was attacked while sitting on his front door steps talking with friends. n93
Because the attackers were gang members, detectives assumed that the victim was
as well, and registered him as an active gang member. n94

   The broad criteria for inclusion in gang databases, and the discretion
afforded to law enforcement in deciding whom to include, make it difficult for
young people living in gang-heavy communities to avoid qualifying criteria. Law
enforcement's desire to collect as much intelligence and potential evidence as
possible about those it expects to be offenders encourages it to be
over-inclusive in its classifications. n95 The lack of age limits for inclusion
in gang databases means that children as young as ten are present in gang
databases. n96

   While the particularities of gang databases vary, most use a software
platform that enables the aggregation and organization of information. n97
Typical of gang databases is that of California, known as CalGangs. It is a
web-based intranet system accessible by police via a computer, phone, or web
browser. The California Attorney General described it as a "wide area, low cost,
easy to use, securely networked, relational, intelligence database." n98

   Gang databases impact the lives of juveniles in many ways. Law enforcement
uses gang databases as an investigatory starting point filled with prime
suspects. n99 They influence which individuals and communities are targeted for
policing. Those known or suspected to be in a gang  [*211]  appear to receive
harsher treatment at every stage of the investigation and adjudication
processes. In Tampa, Florida, for example, an individual without an arrest
record was erroneously placed in a gang database and then stopped four times in
three months, barred from the public housing project where he lived, and
arrested for being there. n100 Documented gang members, and those living in
gang-dense neighborhoods, are more likely to be charged with a crime, more
likely to be remanded while awaiting trial, and if a juvenile, more likely to be
tried as an adult (which has been shown to increase recidivism). n101 Courts may
impose special probationary conditions on gang members, forbidding them from
associating with other known or suspected members. n102 At sentencing, gang
enhancement statutes allow courts to add additional years for gang members and
gang-related crimes. Some jurisdictions forbid plea bargains and require
prosecutors to seek the highest penalty possible in gang-related prosecutions.
n103 School officials use gang information to direct security resources and
assign counseling resources. n104

   The structure and management of gang databases make it difficult, if not
impossible, to know whether a particular person has been classified as a gang
member. The information in gang databases is not publicly available. According
to the California Attorney General website, "release of CalGang(R) Criminal
Intelligence Information is on a Right-To-Know (A Law Enforcement Officer) and
Need-To-Know (Legitimate Law Enforcement Purpose) basis only." n105

   Only a few gang databases have provisions that require law enforcement to
notify parents when youth are classified as gang members. n106 Moreover, law
enforcement typically does not offer a procedure for individuals to contest
their inclusion or to seek or confirm their purging from a gang database. This
means that youth classified as gang involved by police can remain in a gang
database (often unbeknownst to them) for years. Even where purging procedures
are in place, they are rarely carried out. n107 There is little incentive for
law enforcement to purge  [*212]  records from their intelligence databases. And
because of how the guidelines governing many gang databases work (purging is
allowed only if no new information is entered regarding an individual for two or
five years), n108 police can intentionally avoid purging by checking in on
someone regularly, entering gang-related information gained during the encounter
(perhaps about friends or family members of the juvenile).

   Though gang databases are not publicly available, and despite the fact that
many youth never know they have been classified by law enforcement as a gang
member, the information in gang databases leaks beyond law enforcement. As a
general matter, criminal law scholar James Jacobs noted that "once information
is entered into an investigative or intelligence database, it can easily migrate
to other public and private databases and, therefore, can become more difficult
to purge or edit effectively." n109 Specific studies of gang database
information have found this to be true. According to one study, "information
collected [in CalGang] has been shared with employers, landlords, Public Housing
and Section 8, and school administrators." n110 Others have found that police
share gang information with schools. n111

   B. Schools as Informants

 Schools have increasingly become a contact point for youth and the criminal
justice system. Scholars in many fields, including law, education, political
science, and sociology, have traced the rise of the culture of control in the
classroom, and its devastating impacts on youth. n112 From metal detectors and
fingerprint identification required for entry, to video surveillance and police
presence on campuses, schools are policed more than ever. n113 In addition,
schools have criminalized normal adolescent behavior: pushing and shoving has
become battery, swiping a classmate's  [*213]  headphones has become theft or
robbery, and talking back to staff has become disorderly conduct or obstructing.
n114 As a result, young people are intentionally and increasingly diverted from
the classroom to the juvenile and criminal justice systems. n115 These practices
are particularly prevalent in urban public schools attended primarily by
minority youth, n116 a disparity that is "not explained by more frequent or more
serious misbehavior by students of color." n117

   The upshot of these changes is that schools are less likely to handle
disciplinary matters internally. n118 This "criminalization of school
discipline" n119 makes schools "the first institution in which most youth have
an opportunity to be marked as failures, criminals, or deviants." n120 The fact
that schools increasingly turn to law enforcement to deal with misbehavior
reinforces the perceived criminality of the acts. In the last two decades,
legislatures across the country have turned schools into mandated informants,
requiring school officials to report to law enforcement a wide variety of
behaviors and suspected acts by students at school. As a result, all sorts of
behavior and suspicions that in the past would have stayed on  [*214]  campus
are now shared with law enforcement. n121 This leads to more criminal justice
contact for youth, disruptions in their education, and negative outcomes. n122

   One main reason that schools are now in the collecting and reporting business
is that Congress has incentivized it. Two major pieces of legislation do most of
the work. The Improving America's Schools Act of 1994 provided funds to public
schools that demonstrated an existing crime problem, compelling schools
nationwide to develop data-collection systems and define crimes broadly so that
they could qualify for federal funds. n123 Many of these funds were spent on
school-police partnerships, such as hiring security or law enforcement officers
to patrol school campuses. n124 The mere presence of these officers both
facilitates reporting and makes more crime possible as refusing to follow the
orders of these school security officers is a crime. n125 Then, in 2001, the No
Child Left Behind Act required school districts receiving federal funds to have
a policy requiring that any student who brings a firearm or weapon to school be
referred to law enforcement. n126

   With federal money tied to documenting crime in school and reporting it to
law enforcement, it is no surprise that almost all states require school
officials to report to law enforcement suspected violent crimes or incidents
that involve deadly weapons or dangerous instruments. n127 Other states go much
farther. Many, including California, require schools to  [*215]  report when
students use, sell, or possess drugs or alcohol. n128 Connecticut requires
principals to notify law enforcement when the principal "believes that any acts
of bullying constitute criminal conduct," n129 and Illinois requires principals
to notify law enforcement of "each incident of intimidation ... and each alleged
incident of intimidation which is reported to him or her." n130 Kansas requires
an immediate report to law enforcement by or on behalf of any school employee
who knows or has reason to believe that a misdemeanor was committed at school or
a school supervised activity. n131 Given the funding incentives, schools are
likely to err on the side of reporting, even when they do not believe (or know)
that an act constitutes a crime.

   The failure of a school employee to report incidents to law enforcement can
carry consequences. For example, it is a Class B misdemeanor in Kansas to
willfully and knowingly fail to report suspected crimes to law enforcement, n132
and it is an infraction punishable by a fine of up to $ 1000 in California for
"any employee of a school district [who] is attacked, assaulted, or physically
threatened by any pupil" to not promptly report the incident to the appropriate
law enforcement authorities. n133

   Schools are not just sharing behavioral information with law enforcement.
Reports have surfaced of schools sharing records with noncriminal justice
government agencies, such as immigration enforcement authorities. n134

   Information also flows from law enforcement to the schools. At least nineteen
states now require courts or law enforcement agencies to provide criminal or
delinquency information to schools. n135

[*216]

   C. Police and Court Records

 While gang databases and schools as informants are relatively recent phenomena,
criminal justice recordkeeping is nothing new. Traditional forms of data
collection include rap sheets, intelligence gathered by police during street
encounters, and court recordkeeping. Technology has transformed the quantity of
information that can be gathered and the ability to retrieve that information at
will. At the same time, the criminal justice system has expanded the kind and
amount of information it keeps about young people. Moreover, juvenile records
are increasingly accessible to the media, employers, schools, government
agencies, victims, and others. n136

   1. Policing Data

 Legislatures and law enforcement have a history of restricting law
enforcement's ability to create records of juveniles. For decades, most states
prohibited police or juvenile authorities from taking fingerprints or
photographs of juvenile suspects, unless taking them was necessary to an
investigation or was otherwise approved by a court. n137 Such restrictions were
"an extension of the efforts to protect the identities of juveniles and to make
their contact with the police and the court less like that experienced by adult
offenders." n138 By restricting the practice, they sought to "safeguard[] the
child from unwarranted indicia of misconduct becoming a part of police and court
records" and protect their privacy. n139

   Identity records of juveniles, once created, benefitted from enhanced
confidentiality and other protections compared to adult law enforcement records.
Juvenile records kept by police were typically held in decentralized, local
systems, apart from adult criminal records. n140 This confined knowledge about a
juvenile's prior contact with the police to the juvenile's locality. Statutory
confidentiality, combined with sealing and expungement provisions, further
ensured against any lasting effect of  [*217]  criminal records. n141 These
practices continued well into the late twentieth century. As recently as 1988,
only a quarter of law enforcement agencies fingerprinted juveniles. n142

   Today, these protections have faded. Juvenile law enforcement records
increasingly resemble adult law enforcement records: they are more regularly
created, include more information, are stored with adult records, and are more
widely available. Nearly every state allows juveniles to be fingerprinted at
arrest. n143 All states allow juvenile arrestees to be photographed, and nearly
all send information about juvenile arrestees to statewide repositories. n144
The FBI authorizes the inclusion of juvenile criminal history record information
in the FBI's National Crime Information Center ("NCIC") database on the same
basis as adult records. n145 The Supreme Court has held that the media cannot be
stopped from disclosing a juvenile arrestee's identity as long as it acquired
the information lawfully. n146

   The impact of eroded protections for youth has been multiplied because
technology has enabled law enforcement to record, store, organize, and retrieve
more data than ever. A traditional method for police to gather information on
individuals is the Field Interview ("FI") card. Known by different names, these
are forms filled out by police officers after encounters with individuals. n147
They record pedigree information (such as name, address, and date of birth) and
details about the encounter. n148 Police often complete FI cards after routine
encounters  [*218]  done without probable cause, a great many of which did not
end in an arrest. n149

   The FI card practice has been transformed by technology. Law enforcement
staff used to record and organize the information by hand, a laborious manual
entry process. The information is now aggregated and stored in computers, making
it easy to search and retrieve. Software companies have developed computer and
smartphone applications that allow officers to complete FI cards using their
smartphones. n150 These applications eliminate the need to manually enter
information recorded by the officer on the paper form into a database, because
both processes happen at once. This reduces the amount of time required for data
entry, enabling law enforcement to record more information after more
encounters. n151 It also makes retrieval and analysis of the information
gathered much easier.

   The archetypal police record, the Record of Arrest and Prosecution ("rap
sheet"), is a lifetime record of an individual's arrests. Developed at the
beginning of the twentieth century, the rap sheet was "created by police for
police use," to enable police to link records with people. n152 Rap sheets are
no longer just for the police. Congress and states have directly authorized
certain industries, businesses, and other groups to obtain criminal histories
from the FBI for job applicants, employees, and volunteers. n153 In 2012, the
FBI processed some seventeen million criminal background checks for employment
and licensing purposes (made possible by networked computers). n154 Moreover,
"some police departments ... go beyond what constitutional and statutory law
requires, aggressively disseminating arrestee information." n155 As a result, a
"system created by police for the police is now more often used to provide
criminal biographies for non-criminal justice purpose." n156

   Law enforcement agencies across the nation also maintain a variety of
intelligence databases that store much more than just records of arrests,
including the gang databases already mentioned, as well as tattoo  [*219]
databases, birthmark and scar databases, teeth databases, and many others. n157
Information in these databases comes from all the information collected by
officers during street encounters and reported in FI cards, as well as from
bookings, 911 calls, complaints by victims, reports on accidents, and moving
violations. n158 Photograph databases collect images taken at arrests and those
gathered from surveillance cameras. n159

   The granddaddy of all law enforcement databases is the NCIC, "an electronic
clearinghouse of crime data that can be tapped into by virtually every criminal
justice agency nationwide, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year." n160 The NCIC
includes fourteen person files that include records on individuals on probation,
parole, supervised release, released on their own recognizance, or during
pretrial sentencing; records on violent gangs and their members; records on
individuals for whom a federal warrant or a felony or misdemeanor warrant is
outstanding; and records of persons with a violent criminal history and persons
who have previously threatened law enforcement. n161 Automated criminal history
record information contained in the Interstate Identification Index is
accessible through the same network as NCIC. n162 Beginning in 1992, the FBI
allowed juvenile criminal history record information in NCIC on the same basis
as adult records. n163

   Together, these technology-enhanced data collection, organization, and
retrieval systems provide law enforcement with more information than ever on
those they have and will encounter on the streets.

   2. Court Recordkeeping

 Court records document what happens when formal criminal charges are filed
against an individual. Whether they are criminal court or juvenile court
records, they include more than just a charge and the end result of the
proceeding. Court records can contain arrest records, detention history, school
records, medical, psychological, and behavioral records, and family and social
history. n164

    [*220]  For those 200,000 juveniles processed annually in criminal court,
n165 convictions and court records are recorded as they are for adults. Other
than the limited availability of "youthful offender" status, and its narrow
protections, no special provisions protect the records of juveniles convicted in
criminal court. n166 This is significant because criminal court records have
long been available for public inspection. According to Jacobs, "only the United
States and Canada permit anyone to look at case files without having to persuade
a judge or clerk that she has a good reason to see the file." n167 Before the
computerization of court records, though, they were difficult to access. n168
Review required physical travel to the local courthouse or record repository and
time spent retrieving and reviewing the records.

   Today, court records are much more accessible, meaning that police and
non-law enforcement personnel can access an individual's court history with
minimal effort. Most state court systems have websites that allow anyone
(sometimes for a fee) to search docket sheets and retrieve criminal court record
information on individuals. Approximately twenty state court systems sell copies
of their criminal court docket sheets to commercial information vendors. n169

   The vast majority of juveniles charged with crimes have their cases handled
in a juvenile court instead of a criminal court. n170 Consistent with the
institution's diversionary aim to "prevent children from being treated as
criminals," n171 juvenile courts have offered more robust protections against
the creation of a criminal dossier. At its inception, juvenile court proceedings
were held in private, before only a judge and not a jury. By design, such
proceedings were not criminal and resulted in something other than a criminal
conviction. n172 Most states limited disclosure of information about juveniles'
adjudications, and required court case files  [*221]  to be automatically sealed
when the juvenile turned twenty-one. n173 When judicial opinions regarding
delinquency proceedings were issued, they protected a juvenile's identity by
using the juvenile's initials instead of her full name.

   Many of these protective policies remain today. There still are no juries,
n174 and case opinions continue to mask the juvenile's identity. Delinquency
adjudications do not necessarily become part of a young person's permanent
criminal record. Instead, stricter confidentiality provisions protect against
disclosure of juvenile adjudications, and juvenile court records typically can
be sealed or expunged at a particular age. n175

   But as with police records, these confidentiality provisions have eroded over
time. Juvenile court proceedings today are less likely to be closed to the
public. n176 Juvenile court records are also more broadly available, as no state
completely protects juvenile court records from dissemination to certain
entities outside the court and law enforcement. n177 Only nine states require a
court order before juvenile court records can be released. Only eighteen states
ensure that juvenile record information is not available to the public or
accessible on any online database. n178 In Maine, for example, anyone can obtain
a person's delinquency adjudications for a thirty-one-dollar fee. n179 Juvenile
records can be obtained in Florida for twenty-four dollars. n180 Arizona and
Idaho provide no confidentiality protections to juvenile court records. n181
Compounding the significance of this confidentiality erosion, the Supreme Court
has  [*222]  also ruled that state laws cannot protect testifying witnesses from
impeachment by these juvenile records. n182

   While juvenile courts used to seal or expunge juvenile court records on their
own initiative, today only five states automatically expunge juvenile records.
n183 In all other states, the youth, or another party, must file a petition and
convince a court at a hearing to seal or expunge a juvenile court record. n184
In many of those states, youth are not advised of their obligation to initiate
sealing or expungement. And as a result, many do not. Even when juveniles do
initiate sealing or expungement procedures, more than half the states include
statutory exceptions to sealing and expungement based on age at time of offense,
the nature of the offense, and the amount of time that has passed since the case
was closed. n185

   The end result is that police and courts create more records about youth than
ever. The records last longer, and they are more accessible by those outside of
courts and law enforcement than ever before.

   D. DNA Databases

 Another controversial criminal justice practice that has similarly expanded to
include juveniles is DNA profiling. In short it works as follows: a biological
sample containing a person's entire genetic code is collected via buccal swab or
blood draw, n186 and analyzed by a laboratory to create a DNA profile. n187 DNA
profiles are then entered into one or more government databases. n188 The
Combined DNA Information System ("CODIS") is a software program that facilitates
the matching of the DNA profiles of known offenders or arrestees to profiles
generated from crime scene DNA evidence. n189

    [*223]  DNA databasing is a powerful tool that makes it possible to solve
crimes quickly and confidently, including very old crimes, and can even
exonerate the wrongfully convicted. n190 Collection of biological samples is
accomplished primarily through contact with the criminal justice system. The
federal government and all fifty states compel DNA collection from anyone
convicted of a felony in criminal court. n191 In every state except Hawaii, this
includes any juvenile convicted of any felony in criminal court. n192 All but
four states also mandate collection from all persons convicted of certain
misdemeanors, including juveniles. n193

   DNA collection from juveniles is not limited to those charged as adults.
Twenty-nine states compel DNA samples from juveniles following a finding of
juvenile delinquency. n194 Of those twenty-nine states, twenty collect DNA for
all felony adjudications, while nine collecting only for a subset of felony
adjudications. n195 Nineteen states mandate DNA collection from juveniles
adjudicated delinquent for a misdemeanor. n196

   Neither a conviction nor a delinquency adjudication is a necessary predicate
for DNA collection. In some states, a mere arrest can trigger compulsory DNA
collection. As of 2014, the federal government and twenty-seven states require
individuals arrested but not yet convicted or adjudicated delinquent to provide
DNA samples. n197 Of the twenty-seven, nineteen permit collection from juveniles
at arrest. n198

    [*224]  Law enforcement also acquires DNA samples from juveniles based on
consent. Most notable in this regard is Orange County, California's "DNA
Collection and Crime Deterrence Program," known colloquially as the "spit and
acquit" program. n199 In place since 2007, "spit and acquit" permits individuals
who are arrested to have their charges dismissed or reduced if they provide law
enforcement with a DNA sample. n200 This DNA collection initiative has
reportedly generated over 90,000 DNA profiles. n201 The program does not
restrict collection from juveniles.

   Even in the absence of such organized DNA collection initiatives, law
enforcement seeks DNA samples from juveniles based on consent. For example,
police went to Albert Einstein Middle School in Sacramento, California, to
obtain DNA cheek swabs from adolescents as part of a murder investigation. n202
Authorities in Brighton, Colorado, similarly acquired consent-based DNA samples
from a twelve and eleven-year-old when their parents were not home as part of an
investigation into car break-ins. n203

   All told, law enforcement has already compiled DNA profiles of hundreds of
thousands of juveniles. n204 Going forward, as many as several hundred thousand
juveniles could be required each year to provide a genetic sample for purposes
of DNA profiling. n205

[*225]

   E. Sex Offender Registration and Community Notification

 While most criminal justice databases collect information primarily for
criminal justice system use, some serve a much broader purpose. They seek to
publicize criminal record information about those who have committed
particularly heinous offenses. In doing so, they enable public shaming and
lasting discrimination.

   The leading example of these data systems are sex offender registries. Under
various federal and state laws, juveniles convicted in criminal court or
adjudicated delinquent in juvenile court for sex offenses can be required to
register with law enforcement on sex offender registries and provide personal
information that is made publicly available via community notification
procedures. In some jurisdictions, these juveniles must register as sex
offenders and are subject to community notification for the rest of their lives.
In others, registration and community notification are time-limited.

   Federal law requires juveniles convicted in adult court of sex offenses to
register on par with adults. n206 Prior to 2006, federal law did not specify
whether juveniles adjudicated delinquent were subject to sex offender
registration, and the states decided themselves whether such juveniles were
subject to registration. n207 Some states required juveniles adjudicated
delinquent to register, but most protected them from it. n208 In 2006, Congress
passed the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, which included the Sex
Offender Registration and Notification Act ("SORNA"). n209 SORNA requires
mandatory registration for any juvenile over fourteen adjudicated delinquent for
certain sex offenses. n210 SORNA has three tiers of offenses, and the burdens of
registration and notification flow directly from one's classification. The term
of registration is twenty-five years or life. n211 For certain sex offenses,
SORNA permits, but does not require, states to make juveniles' personal  [*226]
information publicly available on the Internet (under what are commonly called
"community notification" requirements). n212

   Despite the distinctive concerns and goals of juvenile court, including its
greater emphasis on rehabilitation and confidentiality, thirty-four states
subject juveniles adjudicated delinquent of a sex offense to register as sex
offenders in some manner. n213 In some of these states, the minimum age for
registration is lower than SORNA's age of fourteen, or there is no minimum age
requirement for registration. n214 Twenty-five states disclose juveniles'
personal information to the public via some form of community notification. n215
And despite evidence that juvenile sex offenders have exceptionally low
recidivism rates, n216 at least six states impose lifetime registration for
juvenile sex offenders. n217

   Juveniles subject to sex offense registration must provide personal
information (such as name, date of birth, current address, school, and employer)
to law enforcement. n218 A federal database collects all sex offender
registrants and is available to federal, state, and local law enforcement. n219
In addition, community notification statutes require law enforcement to publish
a registrant's personal identifying information to law enforcement, interested
parties, and the public. Today, much of this personal information is accessible
via the Internet. The Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public website n220
provides links to all public registries. Users can search particular names or
access a map that indicates the residences of registered sex offenders.
Residency restriction laws prohibit registered sex offenders from living within
a designated distance of places where children gather, such as schools,
playgrounds, parks, and even bus stops. n221 To top it all off, in many states
those subject  [*227]  to sex offender registration must pay registration fees.
Depending on the jurisdiction and the registrant's classification level,
registration fees can cost anywhere between fifty and several hundred dollars.
n222

   While the impetus for sex offender registration stems from the heinousness of
the underlying offense, the scope of behavior that can trigger registration as a
sex offender for juveniles is quite broad. Sex offenses are many and varied -
they range from fondling another over the clothes and grabbing classmates in a
sexual way at school, to consensual sexual intercourse with other minors, to
date and stranger rape. n223 This wide net leads to approximately 15,000 sexual
offense arrests of juveniles in the United States each year. n224

   SORNA does not allow judges any discretion to except a juvenile who has
committed a registerable offense from the registration requirements. n225
Federal law requires registration whether the offense is an adjudication of
delinquency or a criminal conviction, whether it is the juvenile's first
adjudication, whether the juvenile agrees to participate and successfully
completes a counseling or rehabilitation program, and whether the juvenile poses
a very low recidivism risk.

   Since juveniles first became subject to sex offender registration,
legislatures have consistently expanded the number of juveniles subject such
registration. In the last two decades, state and federal legislatures have
imposed on juvenile sex offenders longer registration terms, have required more
juvenile sex offenders to disclose more information about themselves publicly,
and have increasingly restricted their movements and activities, including
outfitting sex offenders with electronic GPS monitoring units. n226 Legislation
has also been amended to turn offenses that were nonregisterable at the time of
conviction or adjudication into triggers of registration, and reclassified
registerable offenses as more serious, increasing the registration or
notification burdens and the consequent restrictions. n227

    [*228]  Sex offender registration profoundly impacts a person's life. It
frustrates access to education, housing, and employment; n228 disrupts families;
n229 and causes social isolation and shame, n230 all of which increase the risk
of delinquency. n231 Some of these disabilities are mandated by law while others
flow from the publicity of the offense. As one juvenile sex offender put it,
"Our mistake is forever available to the world to see. There is no redemption,
no forgiveness. You are never done serving your time. There is never a chance
for a fresh start. You are finished." n232

   Courts predominantly uphold juvenile sex offender registration, juvenile
participation in community notification schemes, and restrictions on juvenile
sex offenders. Many courts have found that such requirements are collateral
consequences of a conviction or adjudication, and not punishment, and therefore
do not run afoul of the Eighth Amendment. n233 Concerns about the propriety and
impact of imposing registration and community notification on juveniles has
recently led to some movement away from juvenile sex offender registry. n234

    [*229]  The following graphic, Figure 1, illustrates the web of access to
the information collected by law enforcement.

 Figure 1


   Databasing delinquency is a massive commitment to data collection by the
criminal justice system about youth. Collectively, the data collection,
retention, and distribution practices described above produce criminal justice
biographies of the lives of youth. n235 The breadth of these biographies,
including not only formal convictions or adjudications but also arrests and
suspicions, and family, friends and associations, make them a damning record of
a particular individual's life. n236 That they are compiled and distributed by
such a powerful and coercive institution, upon which so many public agencies and
private employers rely for background information, make these criminal justice
biographies profoundly important. They unavoidably reflect the race and class
[*230]  enforcement skews in the criminal justice system, making them
particularly troubling. As juvenile justice scholar Barry Feld observed, "at
every stage - arrest, intake, referral, petition, detention, trial, and
disposition - youth of color fare less well than do their White counterparts."
n237 This results in racial skews in data collection, as law enforcement is more
likely to collect and retain information on minorities because it
disproportionately makes contact with people of color. n238 The criminal justice
system also skews against the poor: approximately eighty percent of people
charged with crime are poor, and poor defendants are more likely to be convicted
and incarcerated. n239 As a result, the great bulk of criminal justice
biographies of youth are written about the poor, and people of color (and
especially poor people of color).

   Rational reasons can explain why the criminal justice system in the United
States has come to write biographies of poor, minority youth. Broad data
collection and sharing helps law enforcement manage and solve crime, and has
some role in promoting offender rehabilitation via deterrence and shaming. n240
Accurate and complete police records, including precise physical descriptions
and biometric data, enable law enforcement to correctly and speedily identify
apprehended individuals. n241 Records also provide officers with valuable
information about the people they encounter. n242 The increasing ties between
law enforcement and schools allow schools to address the sometimes significant
crime problems inside and around campus, and remove those who distract from the
learning environment. n243 It also provides law enforcement with more
information about the behavior and associations of young people who spend a
great part of their lives at school. And there are dozens of stories of how DNA
databasing restarted a stalled investigation and helped solve an old  [*231]
crime, bringing a perpetrator to justice or freeing an innocent inmate. n244
Simply put, robust, accessible databases prevent some criminals from avoiding
detection and continuing to terrorize communities.

   The information in these records can also improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of policing and sentencing. Police access to the historical
information in these databases makes it easier for law enforcement to form
probable cause to arrest an individual. n245 It also allows law enforcement to
identify and target high-crime areas, and may enable them to identify
individuals who are more likely to offend. n246 Since peak offending rates occur
during late adolescence, n247 there is arguably no more critical time for law
enforcement to know so much about these individuals. Complete, accessible
records also increase the ability of judges to impose appropriate sentences,
taking full account of an individual's past acts and likelihood of reoffending.

   Mindful of the potential benefits of data collection, the next Part shows how
databasing delinquency harms youth and undermines childhood.

   III. Databasing Harms Youth and Undermines Childhood

 Databasing delinquency inflicts a cascade of harms on juveniles. It leads to
extra policing of their lives and communities, and triggers enhanced punishments
and lasting, destructive stigma. It restricts job, housing, and educational
opportunities. Databasing delinquency also distorts our view of the young people
subject to data collection. By creating one-sided, negative accounts of their
lives, it reinforces fears and stereotypes about juvenile offenders, promoting
more adult-like punitive juvenile justice policies. Not insignificantly, this
distortion is visited  [*232]  especially heavily on minority youth and
constitutes an engine of racial bias in its own right.

   Databasing delinquency also threatens childhood itself. It reflects a narrow
conception of the protective sphere of childhood at odds with longstanding legal
principles, undisputed scientific knowledge, and recent Supreme Court
jurisprudence. By treating young people like adults, it denies certain juveniles
the protections of childhood despite their remaining legally and developmentally
children. This reshapes the very meaning of childhood, breaching its protected
space and contradicting the special understandings that dominate the regulation
of youth.

   A. Databasing Harms Youth

 This Subpart identifies the many ways that gathering information, storing
information, and sharing information about the wrongs and mistakes of youth
harms juveniles. Some of these harms, such as enhanced punishments and
restricted opportunities, are the very point of databasing delinquency. Others,
like self-stigma, are less apparent, or perhaps even unintended, but are
nevertheless significant. The heightened vulnerability that marks adolescence
amplifies the harms caused by these dataveillance practices. That these harms
appear at a critical point in young people's lives, as they transition into
independent adulthood, further increases the short and long-term damage.

   1. Gathering Information Invades Privacy and Stigmatizes Youth

 The criminal justice biographies compiled by delinquency databases include far
more than just convictions or adjudications. They include records of arrests and
incidents at school, many of which are not followed by criminal charges. They
document the youth's friends, families, and associations. They can publicize a
young person's home address, school, and employer. n248 And they include
biological samples containing a person's entire genetic code. n249

   However lawful under the Fourth Amendment, n250 or rationalized by claims of
public safety, the profound amount of information found in delinquency databases
nevertheless constitutes a significant invasion of a young person's privacy.
n251 This invasion of privacy constitutes a harm even if it is considered a
lawful one.

    [*233]  As with adults, invasions of privacy can also lead to psychological
harm in adolescents. n252 This is what privacy scholar M. Ryan Calo
characterizes as the subjective harm of data collection. n253 It includes the
anxiety, embarrassment, or discomfort that accompany the belief that you have
lost control over information about yourself and are being, will be, or have
been watched or monitored. n254 Registered juvenile sex offenders and young
people who live in gang-riddled communities illustrate this kind of subjective
harm. Registered sex offenders cannot know who in the community knows of their
criminal history, but certainly feel anxiety, embarrassment, and discomfort
because their information has been gathered. n255 Likewise, urban youth feel the
"perception of unwanted observation," especially those who get extra attention
from law enforcement because they have been tagged as gang members. n256

   Databasing delinquency causes more than just privacy harm. Gathering the kind
of information included in the delinquency databases has profoundly stigmatizing
effects. Stigma refers to a mark or label of disgrace, shame, or discredit that
isolates certain individuals or groups. n257 Convictions, delinquency
adjudications, and other criminal justice contacts negatively label young
people. "Juvenile delinquent" is, itself, a stigmatic label. n258 The Supreme
Court has long recognized this. In re Winship identified the stigma that results
from being adjudged a delinquent as a liberty interest of "immense importance."
n259 In re Gault found the amount of stigma associated with the delinquent label
"disconcerting." n260

   Researchers Bruce Link and Jo Phelan have shown how stigmatic labels impact
those upon whom they are placed. The process involves five components: labeling,
stereotyping, separation, status loss, and discrimination. n261 Labeling is the
way differences are marked. Delinquency  [*234]  databases mark young people as
delinquents, sex offenders as perverts, n262 school kids as "thugs" and future
criminals, n263 and inner-city youth as gang-bangers. n264 Stereotypes are the
negative attributes linked (however rationally or persuasively) to the labels.
The negative label often serves to separate "them" from "us." Research has shown
how delinquent or criminal labels "embed juveniles into deviant social groups
through association and exclusion." n265 In some cases, "the stigmatized person
is thought to be so different from "us' as to be not really human." n266 This
has certainly happened with juvenile offenders, most infamously in the mid-1990s
when John DiIulio described teenaged offenders as "severely morally impoverished
juvenile super-predators." n267

   These attitudes have internal and external effects. Having your youthful
mistakes and wrongs cataloged leads to an internal stigma that impacts life
chances and choices. According to labeling theory, stigmatic labels are
self-fulfilling prophecies: when juveniles are identified as deviants or
criminals, they are more likely to act like criminals. n268 Delinquency
databasing communicates to the juveniles subject to it that the state believes
they already committed crimes that data collection will help solve, and that
they will commit crimes in the future. n269 Juveniles then internalize this
label, which leads to marginalization and additional offending.

   More recent research has suggested a slightly different mechanism for how
stigmatic criminal labels impact individuals and lead to deviance. "Modified
labeling theory" posits that "the individual's desire to manage shame leads him
to follow strategies such as withdrawal and secrecy," which generate "secondary
deviance." n270 Sex offender registration and  [*235]  community notification
requirements, for example, cause sex offenders to isolate themselves in the
community, away from support systems that help prevent recidivism. n271 The harm
is magnified for juveniles. The label of "sex offender," "child molester," or
"sexual predator" can cause profound damage to a child's development and
self-esteem. n272 The stigma continues even when a juvenile is no longer subject
to registration, and law enforcement no longer publishes her information on a
website. n273 Perhaps it is no surprise then that evidence indicates that sex
offender registration actually raises the risk of recidivism amongst juveniles.
n274

   Likewise, including marginal youth in gang databases (so-called "wannabes")
n275 "potentially drives them into gang membership because they are being
treated as, and known as, gang members." n276 Rather than reducing the crime
problem linked to gangs, it exacerbates it. The same effect appears when
schools, "the first social institution outside of the family in which most youth
have an opportunity to be marked as failures, criminals, or deviants," n277
serve as informants and share information with law enforcement about misbehavior
at school. And at least one international court has recognized the risk of
stigmatization brought by collecting DNA from juveniles. n278

   Stigmatic labels lead criminal justice actors and others to stop seeing young
people as children and to instead see and treat them as criminals. n279 This is
the external stigma of databasing delinquency. Status  [*236]  loss follows,
which is then accompanied by formal and informal discrimination. n280 It should
not be forgotten that juveniles have less mobility than adults, making it "more
difficult for them to escape from a community in which harmful information has
cast them in an unfavorable light." n281

   In short, collecting information harms youth by invading their privacy and
imposing stigma. As David Ball has succinctly put it, "stigma is a sentence of
its own, with real impacts on juveniles' lives." n282 Juveniles' heightened
vulnerability to psychological harm exacerbates the stigmatizing impact of
delinquency databasing.

   2. Storing Information Distorts Perceptions of Developing Youth

 The length of time that the criminal justice system keeps the information it
collects in the delinquency databases imposes additional harms on youth. As
shown above, the duration of storage can be indefinite. Sex offender
registration can last a lifetime, DNA samples and profiles are maintained
indefinitely, and gang databases are rarely purged. n283 Law enforcement
undoubtedly retains the information because it believes that the information
remains valuable long after the events recorded took place, both for its
crime-solving and crime-deterring purposes.

   Adolescence, however, is a time of change. Because "the signature qualities
of youth are transient," n284 youthful behavior does not reflect an individual's
true character. Delinquency is developmentally normal. Offending peaks at
seventeen to eighteen, and quickly and steadily falls thereafter. n285 As a
result, youthful offending is unlikely to be evidence of "irretrievably depraved
character." n286 Indeed, experts agree that it is nearly impossible to predict
which juvenile offenders will persist into adulthood. n287 Therefore, because
the vast majority of juveniles desist, stored criminal history information has
much less value than it does for adults.

    [*237]  In addition, juveniles are less deterrable, meaning that the
ostensible crime-preventing value of databasing delinquency is minimal. Often
sold as tools of deterrence, n288 little empirical data supports a deterrence
justification for aggregate data collection. n289 Whatever deterrence it may
provide is diminished, if not entirely lost, with regard to juveniles. As a
group, juveniles assess risk differently, are more subject to peer influence,
and discount the future more than adults. Each reduces any deterrent effect
derived from the increased likelihood of getting caught in the future or
suffering punishment created by delinquency databases. n290 As juvenile law
experts Christopher Slobogin and Mark Fondacaro put it, the traits that mark
adolescence tend to produce offenders "for whom the deterrent force of the
criminal law is likely to be, literally, an afterthought." n291

   Databasing delinquency ignores these truths about juveniles. Much more than
solving and deterring crime, it marks youth subjected to it as trouble. As a
result, storing data risks producing a community-wide feedback loop. It is well
established that minorities, and minority communities, are policed more heavily
than Whites. n292 DNA databases, primarily populated by arrests and convictions,
are racially skewed. n293 Gang databases are similarly filled with a
disproportionate share of minorities. n294 Sex offender registries also exhibit
racial disparities. n295 The  [*238]  data on school discipline and referrals to
law enforcement are no different. Minority students are punished
disproportionately relative to their violations of school rules, and schools
serving higher percentages of Black students are more likely to suspend, expel,
or refer students to law enforcement officials for violating school rules. n296
As a result, the negative labeling that results from delinquency databasing
falls disproportionately on youth of color. Extensive recordkeeping then becomes
evidence that minorities are more likely to offend, and their communities more
likely to be places of crime, thus generating continued heavy policing and a
greater likelihood of formal intervention. n297

   This feedback loop can produce disturbing results. Designed to prevent
reoffending, storing information may increase recidivism or delay desistance. By
placing juveniles in the pool of usual suspects, databasing increases the
likelihood of their suspicion, detection, and punishment. n298 Evidence suggests
that contact with the criminal justice system is criminogenic, particularly for
juveniles. n299 As such, databasing delinquency may cause perverse effects,
"producing a cohort of more hardened criminals." n300

   Storing prior criminal history can also lead people to wrongly interpret
lawful behavior as suspicious or criminal. Andrew Guthrie Ferguson has shown how
police access to the kind of data gathered in these databases makes it easier
for law enforcement to believe that probable cause exists to arrest an
individual. n301 According to Guthrie Ferguson, "if officers view those
individualized and particularized identifying characteristics - such as prior
convictions, gang associations, and GPS coordinates near the scene of the crime
- as suspicious, then  [*239]  otherwise innocent actions might create a
predictive composite that satisfies the reasonable suspicion standard." n302
Examples abound of young people who experienced a number of police stops after
they were erroneously entered into a gang database, n303 and registered sex
offenders suffering repeated police contact and suspicions as a result of
complaints from residents or false accusations and arrests. n304

   Finally, the challenges of maintaining accurate databases cannot be ignored.
n305 Law enforcement databases suffer from significant accuracy problems. A
National Employment Law Project study recently found that half of FBI records
are flawed. n306 Rap sheets frequently include erroneous information and do not
record arrest dispositions, misleading many to conflate an arrest with a
conviction. n307 Often times, records that were ordered sealed or expunged are
not (despite easy and available technological solutions). n308 In two recent
Supreme Court cases, erroneous information in law enforcement and court
databases led to unlawful arrests of individuals. n309 Ramsey County, Minnesota
stopped using a gang database in 2011 because of concerns about the accuracy of
the information it contained. n310

   This proclivity to inaccuracy heightens the harmful impact of delinquency
databases. As discussed in the next section, that the mistaken or misleading
information is widely distributed (by law enforcement, courts, and private
information venders) compounds the problem. Even if it does get corrected, the
false or outdated information likely remains available on the Internet. n311

    [*240]  The inaccuracy problem could be minimized if law enforcement offered
a procedure for youth to seek or confirm the purging of their information from a
database. But it rarely does. As described above, those required to register as
sex offenders cannot exit the registry until their term of registration expires,
no matter how much evidence of rehabilitation they can provide. While purging is
available in certain circumstances for DNA and gang databases, it is difficult,
and the burden to initiate and substantiate is almost always placed on the
youth. n312 Where purging procedures are in place, they are rarely carried out.
n313

   By storing negative information and including inaccurate or outdated
information, databasing delinquency ignores the foundational principle that
youth change, and instead fixes a criminal label to young people that may
increase offending.

   3. Sharing Information Frustrates the Transition to Adulthood

 The information in delinquency databases is valued by more than just law
enforcement. Employers want access to it. n314 Colleges want access to it. n315
Landlords want to know about it. n316 Journalists want to publish it. n317
Curious neighbors want access to it. n318

   Law enforcement has traditionally restricted access to information it has
about juveniles. Today, through a combination of legislation, information
vendors, and the World Wide Web, all of those people and more can often learn
what contacts people had with the criminal justice  [*241]  system when they
were young. n319 As depicted in Figure 1 in Part II.E, law enforcement,
noncriminal justice government agencies, courts, schools, employers, the media,
and the general public all have some form of access to court records, police
records, and sex offender information. Law enforcement, noncriminal justice
government agencies, and courts each have access to behavior information about
youth at school. Schools and employers are privy to information stored in gang
databases.

   This liberal sharing produces many harms. Foremost among them are the
innumerable formal and informal collateral consequences of contact with the
criminal justice system. As Devah Pager put it, "the "credential' of a criminal
record, like educational or professional credentials, constitutes a formal and
enduring classification of social status, which can be used to regulate access
and opportunity across numerous social, economic, and political domains." n320

   A vast literature recounts the devastating collateral consequences of
criminal justice contact on individual lives. n321 Juveniles no less than adults
suffer these consequences. n322 Accessible arrest and court records restrict
their ability to attend school and secure housing and employment. n323 According
to studies, ninety percent of employers check criminal histories. n324 The
negative impacts arise even when an arrest did not lead to a conviction or
adjudication. n325 Sex offender registration frustrates access  [*242]  to
education, housing, and employment; n326 disrupts families; n327 and causes
social isolation and shame, n328 all of which increase the risk of delinquency.
n329 Some of these disabilities are mandated by law; others flow from the
publicity of the offense. As one juvenile sex offender put it, "Our mistake is
forever available to the world to see." n330

   That the penalties and barriers come at a particularly crucial time for young
people, as they transition to an independent adulthood, enhances the chance that
databasing will produce profound negative effects. n331 Young adults lack social
capital and experience, and their long-term success can turn on their ability to
earn a living wage, begin a career, and start a family in early adulthood. n332
By making all of these things more difficult, databasing delinquency frustrates
the juvenile justice system's rehabilitative goals for youthful offenders,
marginalizing them and hindering their participation in civil society. n333
According to the Ohio Supreme Court:



   For a juvenile offender, the stigma of the label of sex offender attaches at
the start of his adult life and cannot be shaken. With no other offense is the
juvenile's wrongdoing announced to the world. Before a juvenile can even begin
his adult life, before he has a chance to live on his own, the world will know
of his offense. He will never have a chance to establish a good character in the
community. He will be hampered in his education, in his relationships, and in
his work life. His potential will be squelched before it has a chance to show
itself. A juvenile - one who remains under the authority of the juvenile court
and has thus been adjudged redeemable - who is subject to sex offender
notification will have his entire life evaluated through the prism of his
juvenile adjudication. It will be a constant cloud, a once-every-three-month
reminder to himself and the world that he cannot escape the mistakes of his
youth... . It will define his adult life before it has a chance to truly begin.
n334

  [*243]  Of course, suffering consequences for wrongs, including stigma, is
not, by itself, troublesome. As law and philosophy scholar Anita Allen has
explained, "accountability for conduct is a pervasive feature of human
association." n335 Accountability includes being accountable to individuals,
often in the form of providing information about oneself, and accountable for
conduct, typically in the form of negative consequences for wrongs. n336
Criminal law and law enforcement are strong forms of accountability. Modern
surveillance and the data collection practices discussed above represent a
technologically supercharged form of informational accountability. n337

   Some amount of accountability is necessary to regulate childhood. n338 As
future full members of society, children must be taught social norms, and learn
that society imposes consequences for misbehavior. n339 No one maintains that
children not be held to some amount of accountability under the law. The
characteristics that define youth, however, mean that the quantity of
accountability appropriate during childhood is necessarily limited. n340 And the
harms imposed by databasing delinquency, which frustrate juveniles' ability to
succeed in adulthood, go too far.

   B. Databasing Undermines Childhood

 Childhood is fragile. n341 Shifts in public mood can lead to profound changes
in the rights and responsibilities of young people. One such shift took place in
the late 1980s and 1990s, when a spike in violent crime by young people
triggered a moral panic about juvenile offending. n342 Events like the 1988
"Central Park Jogger" case, where five youth were convicted of a beating and
rape that left a woman comatose (a crime, it turned out, that none of the five
committed), n343 and school shootings like the one at Columbine High School,
n344 ignited the panic. Academics in the  [*244]  popular press fueled the flame
by promising a coming generation of "severely morally impoverished juvenile
super-predators." n345 In the public eye, juveniles ceased to be wayward youth
in need of help, and became hardened criminals in need of being locked up. n346

   Reforms throughout the criminal justice system led to more juveniles being
increasingly treated like, and punished alongside, adults. n347 Sentences
increased and laws changed permitting the prosecution of more juveniles in
criminal court. The Supreme Court refused to extend or recognize special
protections for youth. n348 Confidentiality waned. As the authors of a 1989
report on juvenile records wrote, "if an individual wishes to be protected under
the law, then that individual must first act within the law. When a juvenile
chooses a lifestyle of crime and violence, that individual should not expect to
have these activities shielded from disclosure to others." n349

   Juvenile justice scholar Franklin Zimring calls this the "forfeiture theory,"
where "loss of the protected status of youth becomes in effect one penal
consequence of the forbidden act." n350 Juveniles who break the law are seen as
having forfeited, by their conduct, the protections typically afforded to youth.
n351 The forfeiture happens despite their remaining chronologically,
developmentally, and legally children. As Zimring observed, "there is certainly
no logically necessary reason that protective features of youth policy are only
for nice kids." n352

   Databasing delinquency is a stout and expanding remnant of the forfeiture
era. It subjects juveniles to record practices and consequences  [*245]  akin to
those for adults (including juveniles who have committed no crimes). Sex
offender registration, gang databases, DNA collection, and laws turning schools
into informants all emerged after 1980. Holistically, they reflect a narrower
conception of the protective space of childhood than the prevailing notion, and
are at odds with developmental science, the continued existence of juvenile
courts, and recent Supreme Court jurisprudence. As a result, databasing
delinquency does more than cause immediate and lasting harm to individual
juveniles. It reshapes the very meaning of childhood, breaching its protected
space and contradicting the special understandings that policymakers insist must
dominate the regulation of youth.

   The prevailing concept of childhood, and the necessity and propriety of
enhanced protections, is grounded in part on a notion of childhood as innocence.
n353 That childhood is marked by innocence is certainly contested, and
undoubtedly false, especially with regard to adolescents. Despite their
immaturity, juveniles are autonomous actors who have the ability to recognize
right from wrong, and exercise such autonomy by choosing, on occasion, to do bad
things. n354 Indeed, delinquency appears to be a normal part of adolescence.
n355 Their offenses, however, do not make them adults.

   Yet, the criminal justice system, more so than other arenas, tends to treat
young people who do not fit the innocent image as outside of childhood, and thus
not cloaked by (or deserving of) its protections. In the last decade, however, a
shift back to first principles has been evident. The "superpredator era" has
been replaced by "the rebuilding." n356 From the appropriate amount of
punishment to the proper treatment by police, courts and legislatures have
displayed a renewed commitment to the primacy of special protections for youth.
n357 In the wake of a sharp and steady decline in juvenile offending since 1994,
n358 (and perhaps in response to the punitive extremes of 1990s reforms), courts
and legislatures have made it clear that the law must take account of the
differences between  [*246]  youth and adults. n359 As a result, several
juvenile justice policies grounded in the forfeiture theory have been rejected
in recent years. n360

   Yet it is not just the dubious forfeiture theory that undergirds delinquency
databasing. Minority youth need not break the rules before they lose the
protections of childhood. n361 For them, by virtue of being black or brown, they
are perceived as more likely to be criminal, more culpable for the same behavior
committed by White youth, and older than their actual chronological age. Race,
it seems, overrides youth within the criminal justice apparatus. As a result,
minority youth exit childhood's protective space sooner, justifying their
subjection to adult-like law enforcement practices like databasing.

   Americans have long associated blackness and criminality. n362 The perceived
link between blackness and criminality has contributed to racial disparities
throughout criminal justice, including skews in enforcement and punishment of
Black juveniles. n363 One study, for example, found that African American youth
are disproportionately arrested in twenty-six of twenty-nine offense categories,
overrepresented in cases referred to juvenile court, more likely to be formally
charged, more likely to be waived into adult court, and disproportionately
detained in both juvenile and adult facilities. n364 These enforcement skews
then result in racial skews in data collection, as law enforcement is more
likely to collect and retain information on minorities because it
disproportionately makes contact with minorities. n365

   Emerging research connects this racial perception and skew data to the
expanding surveillance of minority youth. Researchers have found that Black
youth are seen as older than their actual age, and more culpable for the same
behavior as White youth. In one study, researchers tested 176 police officers in
large urban areas, mostly White males,  [*247]  average age thirty-seven, and
264 mostly White, female undergraduate students from large public U.S.
universities, to determine their levels of certain types of bias. n366 They
found that Black youth were more likely to be mistaken as older than their
actual age, by an average of 4.5 years. n367 The same study found that White
undergraduate female students judged children up to nine years old as equally
innocent regardless of race, but considered Black children significantly less
innocent than other children in every age group beginning at age ten. n368

   In another study, researchers had a nationally-representative sample of White
Americans participate in an online study about support for life without parole
sentences for juveniles. n369 Participants read a sample about a recipient of
the sentencing option: a fourteen-year-old male with seventeen prior juvenile
convictions on his record who brutally raped an elderly woman. Researchers
manipulated just one word across the two study conditions: in the description of
the example recipient of the sentencing option, the juvenile was described as
either Black or White. The researchers found that "in the Black prime condition,
participants perceived juveniles as more similar to adults in blameworthiness
... than they did in the White prime condition." n370 This led participants in
the Black prime condition to express more support for life without parole
sentences for juveniles in non-homicide cases than did those in the White prime
condition. n371 In short, when test subjects knew the subject of a potential
criminal justice sanction was Black, they showed increased support for punitive
policies. n372

   This effect is occurring in schools as well. Professor Ann Arnett Ferguson
spent over three years observing a racially mixed public intermediate school
(grades four to six). n373 She concluded that African American boys are not seen
as childlike but "adultified," as "naturally naughty," and as "willfully bad."
n374 Their misbehavior was not seen as typical childishness, but was "likely to
be interpreted as symptomatic of  [*248]  ominous criminal proclivities." n375
In one example, a White teacher described African American children who borrowed
books from a classroom without returning them as "looters." As Ferguson put it,
"what might be interpreted as the careless behavior of children is displaced by
images of adult acts of thefts that conjure up violence and mayhem." n376 As a
result of this adultification, Black male youth became exempted from "the
dispensations granted the "child' and the "boy'", justifying increased
surveillance and harsher, more punitive responses to rule-breaking behavior.
n377

   This research shows that race profoundly affects the degree to which
juveniles are afforded the established protection associated with childhood
status. n378 This happens even in the absence of wrongdoing. Indeed, race
appears to override youth when it comes to support for punitive juvenile justice
policies. Black youth are viewed as older than their actual age, are associated
with criminality, and are seen as responsible for their actions at an age when
White youth remain protected by the reduced culpability conception of childhood.
As a result, law enforcement practices like the databasing described here that
treat youth of color like adults flourish.

   IV. Reforms

 There is ample evidence that policymakers are rethinking the punitive,
adult-like policies adopted in a climate of fear and hostility toward juvenile
offenders in the late twentieth century. n379 This momentum toward first
principles led juvenile justice scholar Terry Maroney to describe the current
era as the "rebuilding" of juvenile justice. n380

   In that spirit, this Part offers three recommendations to curbing delinquency
databasing that would realign law enforcement data collection practices with
current developmental research and the prevailing conception of childhood as a
separate, protected space. First, to account for juveniles' unique vulnerability
to harms, laws should limit the amount of information that law enforcement may
collect about juveniles. Second, because most juveniles do not persist in
offending but instead mature into law-abiding individuals, laws should limit the
length of time that gathered information can be retained. Third, in recognition
of juveniles'  [*249]  future lives as adults, laws should restrict law
enforcement's ability to share the information it gathers and stores. This would
have no impact on law enforcement's mission, and would facilitate access to the
employment, higher education, and housing that is so critical as youth
transition to adulthood.

   A. Limiting What Information Is Gathered

 The easiest way to limit the harms caused by databasing delinquency is to not
gather the information in the first place. n381 It would avoid the privacy
intrusion attendant to the gathering of information, and would prevent the
additional punishments and stigma discussed above that ensue. It would also
eliminate the long shadow of a young person's mistakes, helping to ensure that
juveniles enter adulthood with the greatest chance for a productive life.

   But law enforcement will not be prohibited from gathering information in any
foreseeable future. A feasible focus becomes limiting law enforcement's data
collection abilities. Deciding how much to limit it depends in part on the role
of law enforcement with respect to juveniles. If the police play a role similar
to that of a general welfare agency, then all data is potentially pertinent, and
the limitations proposed here will not come to be. n382 But if law enforcement's
mission is limited to crime solving and suppression, then much of the
information about a young person gathered in the delinquency databases loses its
value to law enforcement. Instead, a narrower universe of data collection is
justified. This is especially so for data collection that occurs before a young
person has become the target of a criminal investigation.

   It seems safe to say that the police are not child welfare officials, n383
and therefore every last bit of information about young people is not of police
concern. Gathering data about the friends and associations of juveniles, or
logging reports from schools of bullying, especially in the absence of a
criminal investigation that would make the information relevant, is thus
difficult to justify. On the other hand, it is difficult to cull the information
that has, or might have, intelligence value to law enforcement from that which
does not. n384 Indeed, the belief that it is  [*250]  better to have information
and not need it than to need it and not have it, and the lure of complete
collection, has proven irresistible to the government. n385 One guiding
principle could be that law enforcement may only collect information relevant to
an individual's identity or to a specific investigation.

   Restrictions on law enforcement's ability to gather information are not
impossible. The Fourth and Fifth Amendments stand as foundational hurdles to
unrestricted government data collection. n386 And states still maintain
protective rules for children with regard to police identity records. Take
fingerprints as an example. While some states, such as Alaska, make no
distinctions between juvenile and adult fingerprinting, many others maintain
distinct rules, limiting fingerprinting of youth by age, charge, conviction, or
some combination thereof. n387

   Recent reforms have limited the content of criminal justice biographies of
youth. In several states, both legislative and judicial efforts have restricted
what information law enforcement may gather with respect to juvenile sex
offender registration. As of June 2014, only seventeen states were considered
substantially in compliance with SORNA. n388 Federal officials report that
requiring juveniles to register is the "most significant barrier" to compliance.
n389 In a letter from the State  [*251]  of New York, explaining its decision
not to fully comply with SORNA, the Director of the Office of Sex Offender
Management wrote, "New York has a long standing public policy of treating
juvenile offenders differently from adult offenders so that juveniles have the
best opportunity of rehabilitation and re-integration. The federal requirement
that juveniles be placed on the Sex Offender Registry under SORNA is in direct
conflict with that public policy." n390 Out of similar concerns, the State of
Washington abolished child sex offender registration completely. n391 Courts
have also found juvenile sex offender registration unconstitutional because it
"frustrates two of the fundamental elements of juvenile rehabilitation:
confidentiality and the avoidance of stigma." n392

   Calls for severing the link between schools and law enforcement grow louder
each year. In 2013, Attorney General Eric Holder said in a speech before the
American Bar Association ("ABA") that "[a] minor school disciplinary offense
should put a student in the principal's office and not a police precinct." n393
The American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Psychological Association
have likewise called for an end to harmful disciplinary policies that lead to
criminal justice involvement, urging instead that students be disciplined on a
case-by-case basis and in a developmentally appropriate manner. n394 Across the
country, state departments of education and municipal school districts are
moving away from zero tolerance policies and regular law enforcement involvement
in school matters. n395 In some places, federal civil rights litigation has led
to barriers between the criminal justice system and school information. In
Mississippi, for example, a 2012 Department of Justice Civil Rights Division
lawsuit challenged the City of Meridian's practice of arresting youth for minor
school-based offenses and Lauderdale County's practice of incarcerating youth on
probation for school suspensions and  [*252]  expulsions. n396 An agreement was
reached in June 2015 prohibiting Meridian police officers from arresting youth
for "behavior that is appropriately addressed as a school discipline issue" and
limiting the state's ability to recommend incarceration for violations of
probation that would not otherwise be detainable offenses (i.e., school
suspensions). n397

   That said, the ship full of robust data collection restrictions regarding
youth has likely sailed. Law enforcement agencies need complete and accurate
information to successfully investigate crimes, identify suspects and
perpetrators, and maintain criminal statistics. Broader data collection further
helps law enforcement manage and solve crime, and plays some role in promoting
rehabilitation via deterrence and shaming. Too many crimes have been solved (and
perhaps prevented) because law enforcement collected the otherwise unknown
offender's DNA n398 or knew who a gang member regularly associated with, to roll
back data collection at anywhere other than the margins. Given the ease, low
cost, effectiveness, and popularity of delinquency databases, it would require a
sea change in attitude to generate support for more widespread limits on the
information gathered by law enforcement about juveniles. Even then, the benefits
to juveniles (in reduced privacy and stigma harms) may not outweigh the public
safety harms of increased crime. For that reason, the best chances to minimize
the harms caused by dataveillance rest in restricting the storage and
dissemination of criminal information about youth.

   B. Limiting What Information Is Stored

 Youth change. While many participate in some form of delinquency during
adolescence, most desist as they mature into adulthood. n399 This is because
many of the factors associated with antisocial, risky, or criminal behavior lose
their intensity as individuals become more developmentally mature. n400 That
youth change means that "particularly in the case of the juvenile, ...
yesterday's record does not accurately describe today's  [*253]  individual."
n401 In recognition of this truth, limits on the length of time that law
enforcement can retain records about juveniles should be imposed. These limits
would enable law enforcement to keep information during peak offending years
while also protecting young people from the long shadow of youthful mistakes.

   Numerous proposals have sought to limit the length of time that law
enforcement can retain records about juveniles. Before the dawn of computerized
dataveillance, the ABA issued a report entitled Standards Relating to Juvenile
Records and Information Systems. n402 In it, the ABA recommended that juvenile
police and court records be destroyed if a juvenile who is arrested or detained
is not referred to a court. n403 The report emphasized that unless the
juvenile's police record is also destroyed when the court record is destroyed,
"the destruction of the court record alone would become a relatively meaningless
reform." n404 In a foreshadowing of what has become, the report acknowledged
that the "increasing use of computers to disseminate arrest records magnifies
the risks created by the existence of arrest records." n405 The juvenile crime
wave of the 1980s and early 1990s, and the punitive reforms that followed, meant
the ABA's proposal was not heeded.

   Similar reform proposals are now making headway as policymakers have begun to
reimpose limitations on how long juvenile records may be maintained. In 2014,
Washington state passed a law allowing for most juvenile records to be
automatically sealed when the youth turns eighteen. n406 In explaining the bill,
Representative Ruth Kagi said that "up until today, youth in Washington had
their mistakes follow them forever. The sealing of juvenile records will give
youth the chance to get an education, a job, housing, and a productive life."
n407 Senators Rand Paul and Cory Booker proposed a similar bill at the federal
level in 2014. Their REDEEM Act would automatically seal juvenile criminal
records for nonviolent offenses. n408

   The movement toward protective juvenile record policies is not limited to the
United States. In recent commentary on the European  [*254]  rules for juvenile
offenders, the Council of Europe advised that "sanctions and measures imposed on
juvenile offenders should not be held against them for the rest of their
lives... . Records of the offences of juveniles should not be kept for longer
than absolutely necessary." n409

   Just how long is necessary would undoubtedly be subject to great debate.
Empirics on juvenile offending help to identify an appropriate target. Expunging
police and court records could be triggered when juveniles hit a particular age,
such as eighteen or twenty-one. This would accord with offending data which
shows that offending peaks at seventeen and then sharply and steadily decreases.
n410 As a result, the intelligence value to law enforcement of all that the
delinquency databases contain drops off just as sharply and steadily into the
future. Since it is increasingly unlikely to be actionable information, there is
less justification for continuing to store it. The value of the information
about friends and associations, such as that which fills gang databases,
diminishes even more sharply with time as social groups and activity change.
That databasing causes such extensive harms, not just from the mere gathering of
the information but also from the retention of erroneous information and the
broad sharing of information, increases the need for limiting its storage.

   Alternatively, records could be expunged when a juvenile avoids a conviction
or adjudication for a certain period of time. This would be expungement earned
not by simply growing old, but by behavior. Data about desistance would support
such an approach. Researchers have found that individuals with a prior criminal
justice contact who stay arrest free for seven years or more pose very little
risk of future crime. n411 Moreover, that low risk converges with the risk of a
same-aged individual from the general population at around seven years after
contact, and approaches (though never equals) that of same-aged individuals with
a clean criminal record. n412 Therefore, for juveniles who avoid arrests and
conviction, there would be little risk to public safety of destroying their old
records. The upside would be reduced stigma and fewer barriers to housing,
education, and employment. n413

    [*255]  Indeed, record sealing or destruction mechanisms are already in
place. All states enable the destruction, expunging, or sealing of some juvenile
records. n414 New York, for example, requires fingerprint records to be
destroyed when a person adjudicated delinquent reaches the age of twenty-one or
has been discharged from placement for at least three years and has no
intervening criminal convictions or pending criminal actions. n415 There are
even protections in some states for juveniles charged in criminal court. Under
"Youthful Offender" statutes, accusatory instruments can be sealed and records
that would otherwise be public kept confidential. n416

   The software that enables the delinquency databases could easily accomplish
automatic record deletion. All that it would seemingly require would be an
allocation of resources from the government to develop programs that could
identify records due for sealing or destruction and accomplish the sealing or
destruction.

   C. Limiting What Information Is Shared

 As described above, many are able to access the information in the delinquency
databases. Law enforcement, noncriminal justice government agencies, courts,
schools, employers, the media, and the general public all have some form of
access to court records, police records, and sex offender information. Law
enforcement, noncriminal justice government agencies, and courts each have
access to behavior information about youth at school. Schools and employers are
privy to information stored in gang databases. According to leading criminal
records scholar Jacobs, "the United States, which invented a juvenile court
committed to confidentiality, now is exceptional for the amount of juvenile
offender information that is disclosed to diverse government agencies and the
public." n417

   Once the information gets beyond law enforcement, and into the hands of
employers, school officials, and landlords, the harmful impacts are felt
immediately. Moreover, once the information gets beyond law enforcement, it is
almost impossible to make it go away or control the havoc it wreaks. n418 As a
result, its impact is lasting.

   This liberal policy regarding disclosure is in part linked to the American
commitment to open government and the freedom of the press. And it is also a
result of the gradual shift of law enforcement records from  [*256]  a system
created by police for police to one used heavily by noncriminal justice actors
like employers and schools.

   Distributing the information is particularly harmful because of its
devastating impacts on an individual's ability to secure employment, housing,
and school that accompany sharing criminal history. n419 Not only does criminal
history information sharing frustrate the ability of young people (and adults
with a youthful criminal record) to earn a living, educate themselves, and find
a place to live, all of these factors are linked to desistance. n420

   Instead of punishing youth far into the future, the law should cabin the
information that is gathered and stored by law enforcement to law enforcement as
much as possible. This is especially true for intelligence information like that
gathered in gang databases and nonconviction records, like those for arrests.
Noncriminal justice actors (like employers) are likely to believe that an arrest
reflects a guilty act, when upwards of fifty percent of arrests are not followed
by a conviction. n421 Moreover, the presumption of innocence, "that bedrock
"axiomatic and elementary' principle whose "enforcement lies at the foundation
of the administration of our criminal law,'" n422 demands that the criminal
justice system only share police record information when it reflects certainty
that the act was committed.

   A number of reforms limiting the sharing of law enforcement records have
recently been put in place. As discussed above, jurisdictions are limiting the
extent to which juveniles are subject to sex offender registration, and federal
guidelines do not require that juveniles be subject to community notification
procedures. n423 There is a nationwide movement to restrict what criminal
history information employers can access. n424 Colleges are beginning to add
nuance to their use of criminal history information in admissions instead of
using it as a blunt sorting  [*257]  tool. n425 Public schools have also been
seeking ways to minimize law enforcement involvement in school matters. n426

   As these efforts demonstrate, limiting what criminal history information gets
shared beyond law enforcement is probably the most attainable reform proposal.
It is also arguably the most important. Cabining the information to law
enforcement reduces the negative impact the criminal justice biography may have.
While they are still subject to privacy invasions and stigma harms, and law
enforcement is more likely to police them and their communities (each no small
consequence), law enforcement does not hire them for jobs, accept them to
colleges, or act as their landlord. Without access to the information,
employers, colleges, and landlords will not be able to so easily discriminate
against individuals based on criminal history.

   Conclusion

 Because adolescents are vulnerable, because they change, and because they are
future adults, we must strive for a constellation of practices that protect them
from harm and promote their positive development. The criminal justice system is
a critical part of that constellation. With renewed vigor, courts, legislatures,
and policymakers today are correcting the missteps of the 1990s that favored
treating juveniles like adults in the criminal justice system by reinstating the
primacy of special protections for youth.

   Databasing delinquency - a broad data collection, retention, and distribution
system that treats juveniles on par with adults - reveals that two pernicious
distortions continue to inform this aspect of juvenile justice policy. First,
youth who break the rules are seen as having forfeited the protections of
childhood. Second, childhood status is particularly fragile for minority youth,
who age out of childhood's protective space sooner than White youth. As a
result, many youth are saddled with a record of mistakes and suspicions that
haunt them into adulthood.

   The unwillingness to forgive and forget youthful mistakes embedded in
databasing delinquency ignores the fundamental nature of adolescence. Rather
than pursuing adult-like surveillance practices in the name of public safety
that inflict debilitating short and long-term harms, the developmental
characteristics of youth and the purpose and meaning of childhood must guide
juvenile justice policy. To that end, we must avoid practices that unduly
stigmatize, that permanently punish, and that promote or entrench criminal
behavior. By limiting the information that  [*258]  the criminal justice system
gathers, stores, and shares about juveniles, we can avoid those harms without
frustrating public safety.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedurePostconviction ProceedingsParoleFamily LawDelinquency &
DependencyGeneral OverviewGovernmentsCourtsCourt Records

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Simson Garfinkel, Database Nation: The Death of Privacy in the 21st
Century (Deborah Russell ed., 2000); Erin Murphy, Databases, Doctrine and
Constitutional Criminal Procedure, 37 Fordham Urb. L.J. 803, 805-10 (2010)
(recounting the rise of databases in criminal justice).





n2.  Juvenile courts and law enforcement long restricted the information they
gathered about juveniles, limited the length of time it was stored, and
protected the information gathered from disclosure. James B. Jacobs, The Eternal
Criminal Record 114 (2015) ("The practice of sealing and expunging criminal
records was pioneered in the juvenile justice system."). For example, as
recently as 1988, only a quarter of law enforcement agencies fingerprinted
juveniles. Bureau of Justice Statistics, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Juvenile Records
and Recordkeeping Systems (1988).





n3.  See infra Part II. A note on terminology: This Article primarily
contemplates youth aged ten to seventeen. I variously refer to them as
juveniles, youth, young people, and adolescents. However, because of the binary
approach of criminal law (that is, an accused is treated either as a child and
processed in juvenile court, or as an adult subject to the criminal court's
jurisdiction), I occasionally use child, children, and childhood throughout the
piece.





n4.  See infra Part II.B.





n5.  See Margaret Colgate-Love et al., Collateral Consequences of Criminal
Convictions: Law, Policy and Practice 279-80 (2013) (identifying state "central
repositories ... , the courts, private vendors which prepare reports from public
sources, and even correctional institutions and police blotters" as sources of
criminal histories).





n6.  Roger A. Clarke, Information Technology and Dataveillance, 31 Comm. ACM,
May 1988, at 498, 499, 502-04.





n7.  See Ray McDermott & Jason Duque Raley, "The Tell-Tale Body": The
Constitution of Disabilities in School, in Handbook of Social Justice in
Education 431, 438 (William Ayers, Therese Quinn & David Stovall eds., 2009)
(describing school records of misbehavior and missing behavior as "the
institutional biographies that record a child's problems in school files
forever").





n8.  These more traditional doctrinal approaches to assessing law enforcement
data collection offer little promise at the present time as limiting forces. On
privacy, see Jed Rubenfeld, The End of Privacy, 61 Stan. L. Rev. 101 (2008) and
Daniel J. Solove, Digital Dossiers and the Dissipation of Fourth Amendment
Privacy, 75 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1083 (2002). Similarly, Fourth Amendment
jurisprudence offers juveniles fewer protections than it does to adults because
young people are considered to have a reduced expectation of privacy. See
Kristin Henning, The Fourth Amendment Rights of Children at Home: When Parental
Authority Goes Too Far, 53 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 55, 55 (2011) ("Youth generally
receive less constitutional protection than adults.").





n9.  See, e.g., Annette Ruth Appell, Accommodating Childhood, 19 Cardozo J.L. &
Gender 715, 715 (2013) ("The legal academy has bestowed scant critical
examination on the category of childhood.").





n10.  See David Archard, Children: Rights and Childhood (2d ed., 2004); see also
Allison James & Adrian L. James, Constructing Childhood: Theory, Policy and
Social Practice 20 (2004).





n11.  Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551, 570 (2005) ("The character of a juvenile
is not as well formed as that of an adult. The personality traits ... are more
transitory, less fixed.").





n12.  See infra Part I.





n13.  See Franklin E. Zimring, The Common Thread: Diversion in Juvenile Justice,
88 Calif. L. Rev. 2477 (2000).





n14.  Miller v. Alabama, 132 S. Ct. 2455, 2466 (2012) (holding mandatory life
without parole sentences for juveniles violate the Eighth Amendment); J.D.B. v.
North Carolina, 131 S. Ct. 2394, 2404 (2011) (holding law enforcement must
consider age when deciding whether an individual is in custody for purposes of
providing a Miranda warning); Graham v. Florida, 560 U.S. 48, 75 (2010)
(outlawing life without parole sentences for individuals who committed
non-homicide crimes under the age of eighteen); Roper, 543 U.S. at 572
(declaring unconstitutional to impose capital punishment for crimes committed by
someone under the age of eighteen).





n15.  Terry A. Maroney, The Once and Future Juvenile Brain, in Choosing the
Future for American Juvenile Justice 189, 211 (Franklin E. Zimring & David S.
Tanenhaus eds., 2014) (calling the current era of juvenile justice reform "the
rebuilding").





n16.  Archard, supra note 10, at 23 ("There are good reasons for thinking that
all societies at all times have had the concept of childhood."); James & James,
supra note 10; The Sociology of Childhood: Essential Readings (Chris Jenks ed.,
1982).





n17.  Brief for Am. Psych. Ass'n, et. al. as Amici Curiae Supporting
Petitioners, Graham v. Florida, Nos. 08-7412, 08-7621, 2009 WL 2236778, 3-4
(2009) (citing neuroscience research showing adolescent brains are not yet fully
developed in regions related to higher-order executive functions such as impulse
control, planning ahead, and risk evaluation).





n18.  Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U.S. 104, 115 (1982) ("But youth is more than a
chronological fact.").





n19.  Archard, supra note 10, at 27; Appell, supra note 9, at 735.





n20.  Archard, supra note 10, at 33; Appell, supra note 9, at 736
("Developmental facts do not dictate the contours or boundaries of childhood.
Ideology does.").





n21.  Jonathan Todres, Maturity, 48 Hous. L. Rev. 1107, 1116 (2012) ("Benchmarks
of maturity in the law frequently occur at different points in time.").





n22.  Id.





n23.  Reinventing Childhood After World War II ix (Paula S. Fass & Michael
Grossberg eds., 2012); Archard, supra note 10, at 37 ("The most important
feature of the way in which the modern age conceives of children is as meriting
separation from the world of adults.").





n24.  Miller v. Alabama, 132 S. Ct. 2455, 2469-70 (2012) (identifying
developmental science and common sense as the bases for the fact that "children
are different").





n25.  Id. at 2470 ("It is the odd legal rule that does not have some form of
exception for children.") (emphasis in original).





n26.  Juvenile courts in all fifty states handle child welfare and delinquency
matters.





n27.  See David S. Tanenhaus, Juvenile Justice in the Making (2004).





n28.  Annette Ruth Appell, The Pre-Political Child of Child-Centered
Jurisprudence, 46 Hous. L. Rev. 703, 709 (2009).





n29.  Schall v. Martin, 467 U.S. 253, 265 n.15 (1984); Elizabeth S. Scott &
Laurence Steinberg, Rethinking Juvenile Justice (2008).





n30.  Laurence Steinberg, Cognitive and Affective Development in Adolescence, 9
Trends in Cognitive Sci. 69, 69 (2005).





n31.  Scott & Steinberg, supra note 29, at 35.





n32.  Id. at 36; Laurence Steinberg, A Dual Systems Model of Adolescent
Risk-Taking, 52 Dev. Psychobiol. 216, 217 (2010).





n33.  Scott & Steinberg, supra note 29, at 37.





n34.  Id. at 38; Franklin E. Zimring, Kids, Groups and Crime: Some Implications
of a Well-Known Secret, 72 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 867, 867 (1981)
("Adolescents commit crimes, as they live their lives, in groups.").





n35.  Michael R. Gottfredson & Travis Hirschi, A General Theory of Crime 124
(1990) (stating the age-crime curve has "remained virtually unchanged in 150
years"); Alex R. Piquero et al., The Criminal Career Paradigm, 30 Crime & Just.
359 (2003).





n36.  Terrie E. Moffitt, Adolescence-Limited and Life-Course-Persistent
Antisocial Behavior: A Developmental Taxonomy, 100 Psychol. Rev. 674, 675 (1993)
(Delinquent behavior is "a normal part of teen life.").





n37.  Archard, supra note 10, at 61.





n38.  State ex rel. Juvenile Dep't of Multnomah Cty. v. Millican, 906 P.2d 857,
861 (1995) (De Muniz, J., dissenting) ("Shackling is likely to be more
psychologically jarring for children than adults.").





n39.  Bureau of Justice Assistance, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Juveniles in Adult
Prisons and Jails: A National Assessment (2000). Even institutions specifically
designed for youth, such as juvenile detention centers and foster care group
homes, inflict significant harms on youth. See Barry Holman & Jason Ziedenberg,
Justice Policy Inst., The Dangers of Detention: The Impact of Incarcerating
Youth in Detention and Other Secure Facilities (2006).





n40.  Franklin E. Zimring et al., Sexual Delinquency in Racine: Does Early Sex
Offending Predict Later Sex Offending in Youth and Young Adulthood?, 6
Criminology & Pub. Pol'y 507 (2007) (noting research on adolescent brain
development indicates that youth are particularly vulnerable to the stigma and
isolation that registration and notification create).





n41.  Graham v. Florida, 560 U.S. 48, 71 (2010) ("This reality [that life
without parole is a longer sentence for a juvenile than an adult] cannot be
ignored.").





n42.  Tanenhaus, supra note 27.





n43.  See Anthony M. Platt, The Child Savers: The Invention of Delinquency
(1969). In The Child Savers, Anthony Platt aims to "destroy[] the myth that the
child-saving movement was successful" and argues that the Progressives "helped
to create special judicial and correctional institutions for the labeling,
processing, and management of "troublesome' youth" that "subjected more and more
juveniles to arbitrary and degrading punishments." Id. at xliii, 3.





n44.  Restatement (Second) of Torts § 283.A (1965); see also Restatement (Third)
of Torts: Liability for Physical and Emotional Harm § 10 (2005) ("(a) A child's
conduct is negligent if it does not conform to that of a reasonably careful
person of the same age, intelligence, and experience, except as provided in
Subsection (b) or (c); (b) A child less than five years of age is incapable of
negligence ... .").





n45.  Halbman v. Lemke, 298 N.W.2d 562, 564 (1980).





n46.  E. Allan Farnsworth, Farnsworth on Contracts 230-31 (2d ed. 1998).





n47.  Tanenhaus, supra note 27.





n48.  Elizabeth S. Scott, "Children Are Different": Constitutional Values and
Justice Policy, 11 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 71, 72 (2013) ("The Court has announced
a broad principle grounded in developmental knowledge that "children are
different' from adult offenders and that these differences are important to the
law's response to youthful criminal conduct.").





n49.  Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551, 570 (2005).





n50.  J.D.B. v. North Carolina, 131 S. Ct. 2394, 2403-04 (2011) (finding law
enforcement must consider age when deciding whether an individual is in custody
for purposes of providing a Miranda warning because youth are more vulnerable to
outside pressures than adults).





n51.  Scott & Steinberg, supra note 29, at 36.





n52.  Anita L. Allen, Why Privacy Isn't Everything: Feminist Reflections on
Personal Accountability 1, 29 (2003) (noting that young people are "typically
excused from the high level of accountability imposed on adults"); R. Jay
Wallace, Responsibility and the Moral Sentiments 164-65 (1994).





n53.  Jamie Stang & Mary Story, Guidelines for Adolescent Nutrition Services 1
(2005), www.epi.umn.edu/let/pubs/img/adol_ch1.pdf ("A myriad of biological
changes occur during puberty including sexual maturation, increases in height
and weight, completion of skeletal growth accompanied by a marked increase in
skeletal mass, and changes in body composition.").





n54.  Laurence Steinberg, Adolescence (9th ed. 2010); Laurence Steinberg, Should
the Science of Adolescent Brain Development Inform Public Policy?, 50 Ct. Rev.
70, 70 (2014) ("There is now incontrovertible evidence that adolescence is a
period of significant changes in the brain structure and function."); Terry A.
Maroney, The False Promise of Adolescent Brain Science in Juvenile Justice, 85
Notre Dame L. Rev. 89, 95-103 (2009) (summarizing the many findings about
adolescent brain development).





n55.  Jane Kroger, Identity in Adolescence: The Balance Between Self and Other
(2004) (describing adolescence as a time of self-definition and identity
formation).





n56.  Johnson v. Texas, 509 U.S. 350, 368 (1993); Scott & Steinberg, supra note
29, at 32 ("[Adolescence] is transitional because it is marked by rapid and
dramatic change within the individual in the realms of biology, cognition,
emotion, and interpersonal relationships ... .").





n57.  Laurence Steinberg & Elizabeth S. Scott, Less Guilty by Reason of
Adolescence: Developmental Immaturity, Diminished Responsibility, and the
Juvenile Death Penalty, 58 Am. Psychologist 1009, 1015 ("The typical delinquent
youth does not grow up to become an adult criminal ...").





n58.  See Edward P. Mulvey et al., Trajectories of Desistance and Continuity in
Antisocial Behavior Following Court Adjudication Among Serious Adolescent
Offenders, 22 Dev. Psychopathol. 453, 462 (2010) (finding after following over
1000 male adolescent offenders over the course of three years that only 8.7%
were "persisters" in that their offending remained constant throughout the
thirty-six-month period); see also Robert Sampson & John Laub, Life-Course
Desisters? Trajectories of Crime Among Delinquent Boys Followed to Age 70, 41
Criminology 301, 315 (2003) ("Aging out of crime is thus the norm - even the
most serious delinquents desist.").





n59.  Marsha Levick et al., The Eighth Amendment Evolves: Defining Cruel and
Unusual Punishment Through the Lens of Childhood and Adolescence, 15 U. Pa. J.L.
& Soc. Change 285, 297 (2012).





n60.  Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551, 573 (2005) ("It is difficult even for
expert psychologists to differentiate between the [youthful] offender whose
crime reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare [youthful]
offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruption.").





n61.  Julian W. Mack, The Juvenile Court, 23 Harv. L. Rev. 104, 107 (1910).





n62.  John C. Coffee, Privacy Versus Parens Patriae: The Role of Police Records
in the Sentencing and Surveillance of Juveniles, 57 Cornell L. Rev. 571, 617
(1971) ("Particularly in the case of the juvenile, ... yesterday's record does
not accurately describe today's individual.").





n63.  See Kristin Henning, Eroding Confidentiality in Delinquency Proceedings:
Should Schools and Public Housing Authorities Be Notified?, 79 N.Y.U. L. Rev.
520, 525-30 (2004) (criticizing the erosion of confidentiality protections
regarding juvenile court records).





n64.  Miller v. Alabama, 132 S. Ct. 2455, 2465 (2012); Graham v. Florida, 560
U.S. 48, 89 (2010); Roper, 543 U.S. at 569-70.





n65.  Graham, 560 U.S. at 68.





n66.  Roper, 551 U.S. at 570.





n67.  Id.





n68.  See supra note 13.





n69.  Appell, supra note 28, at 708.





n70.  James & James, supra note 10, at 20.





n71.  Allen, supra note 52, at 4 (noting that "a society cannot afford to fully
leave people alone"); Appell, supra note 28, at 708. In this vein, Theodore
Roosevelt described the early juvenile justice system as a "manufactory of
citizens." Jack M. Holl, Juvenile Reform in the Progressive Era: William R.
George and the Junior Republic Movement 9 (1971).





n72.  Franklin E. Zimring, American Juvenile Justice 18-19 (2005) ("Above almost
all else, we seek a legal policy that preserves the life chances for those who
make serious mistakes ... [and that gives] young law violators the chance to
survive our legal system with their life opportunities still intact ... [.]").





n73.  Mack, supra note 61, at 109 ("To get away from the notion that the child
is to be dealt with as a criminal; to save it from the brand of criminality, the
brand that sticks to it for life; to take it in hand and instead of first
stigmatizing and then reforming it, to protect it from the stigma - this is the
work which is now being accomplished by [the juvenile court].").





n74.  See Zimring, supra note 72, at 18-19.





n75.  See Kim Taylor-Thompson, Minority Rule: Redefining the Age of Criminality,
38 N.Y.U. Rev. L. & Soc. Change 143, 158-59 (2014).





n76.  For example, in New York, "Youthful Offender" status is available to a
limited number of young people charged in criminal court: those at least sixteen
but not yet nineteen, facing certain charges and without certain criminal
history. N.Y. Crim. Proc. § 720.10. Those who qualify benefit from a sealed
accusatory instrument, may have their arraignment and all proceedings conducted
in private, can receive reduced sentences that do not carry the same
consequences as a conviction, and court records are confidential. Crim. Proc.
§§720.15, 720.20, 720.35.





n77.  See, e.g., N.Y. Fam. Ct. Act § 353.6 (capping the amount of restitution
that a juvenile may be ordered to pay at $ 1500). According to the National
Juvenile Defender Center, eight jurisdictions place a cap on the amount of
restitution that may be imposed on a juvenile. See Juvenile Restitution
Statutes, Nat'l Juvenile Def. Ctr.,
http://njdc.info/juvenile-restitution-statutes/ (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n78.  See, e.g., Marsha L. Levick & Elizabeth-Ann Tierney, The United States
Supreme Court Adopts a Reasonable Juvenile Standard in J.D.B. v. North Carolina
for Purposes of the Miranda Custody Analysis: Can a More Reasoned Justice System
for Juveniles Be Far Behind?, 47 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 501 (2012) (identifying
duress, provocation, and felony murder as potential areas of future reform).
Many states have delayed implementing the Miller decision outlawing mandatory
life without parole sentences for juveniles. See The Sentencing Project, Slow to
Act: State Responses to 2012 Supreme Court Mandate on Life Without Parole
(2014). Even where juveniles are able to get resentencing hearings, many are
being resentenced to life without parole. Ranjani Chakraborty, Imprisoned at 14,
Illinois Inmate Gets Resentenced to Life Without Parole, Al Jazeera (May 4,
2015, 5:20 PM),
http://america.aljazeera.com/watch/shows/america-tonight/articles/2015/5/4/adolf
o-davis-life-parole.html.





n79.  Simon A. Cole, Suspect Identities: A History of Fingerprinting and
Criminal Identification (2001); Jacobs, supra note 2; Alexandra Natapoff,
Snitching: Criminal Informants and the Erosion of American Justice (2009).





n80.  Murphy, supra note 1, at 807 (2010) ("Old databases were typically paper
files or punch cards that were physically kept and stored in diffused, and at
times difficult to access, locations.").





n81.  See id. (arguing for better regulation of law enforcement databases);
Garfinkel, supra note 1.





n82.  James B. Jacobs, Juvenile Criminal Record Confidentiality, in Choosing the
Future for American Juvenile Justice 149, 157 (Franklin E. Zimring & David S.
Tanenhaus eds., 2014) ("The history of juvenile justice has always been
court-centric, paying much less attention to police and corrections.").





n83.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 32 (identifying past targets as communists,
Mafioso, and Black militants).





n84.  Nat'l Gang Intelligence Ctr., 2013 National Gang Report.





n85.  Youth Justice Coal., Tracked and Trapped: Youth of Color, Gang Databases
and Gang Injunctions 2 (2012) (referencing the Gang Reporting, Evaluation, and
Tracking System ("GREAT") that stored and analyzed personal information about
alleged gang members).





n86.  Julie Barrows & C. Ronald Huff, Gangs and Public Policy: Constructing and
Deconstructing Gang Databases, 8 Criminology & Pub. Pol'y 675, 683 (2009).





n87.  K. Babe Howell, Gang Databases: Labeled for Life, Champion 28 (2011).





n88.  Youth Justice Coal., supra note 85, at 2.





n89.  James B. Jacobs, Gang Databases: Context and Questions, 8 Criminology &
Pub. Pol'y 705, 705 (2009).





n90.  Youth Justice Coal., supra note 85, at 4.





n91.  Rebecca Rader Brown, The Gang's All Here: Evaluating the Need for a
National Gang Database, 42 Colum. J.L. & Soc. Probs., 294, 319 (2009)
("Documentation procedures in most localities are characterized by high levels
of discretion in identification, review, and processing of information.").





n92.  Howell, supra note 87, at 33.





n93.  Victor M. Rios, Punished: Policing the Lives of Black and Latino Boys
77-78 (2011).





n94.  Id. at 78.





n95.  Barrows & Huff, supra note 86, at 677 ("Many if not most law-enforcement
agencies include marginal gang associates in their databases.").





n96.  Youth Justice Coal., supra note 85, at 11 (noting that as of December
2012, the CalGang database included 23,789 (out of 201,094) individuals age
nineteen or younger: 460 individuals aged ten to fourteen, and 23,329 aged
fifteen to nineteen).





n97.  Rader Brown, supra note 91, at 301 n.43 (noting that GangNet(R) is used by
at least twelve states, the District of Columbia, and multiple federal agencies,
and Canada). At the federal level, the FBI's National Gang Intelligence Center
integrates gang intelligence from federal, state, and local law enforcement.
Gangs, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
https://www.fbi.gov/about-us/investigate/vc_majorthefts/gangs/ngic (last visited
Dec. 18, 2015).





n98.  CALGANG(R), Office of Att'y Gen., Cal. Dep't of Just.,
http://oag.ca.gov/calgang (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n99.  K. Babe Howell, Gang Policing: The Post Stop-and-Frisk Justification for
Profile-Based Policing, 5 U. Denv. Crim. L. Rev. 1, 4 (2015).





n100.  Will Hobson, Police Gang Lists Can Have Life-Long Impacts and Are
Questioned by Legal Experts, Tampa Bay Times (Sept. 15, 2012, 7:08 PM),
http://www.tampabay.com/news/publicsafety/crime/police-gang-lists-can-have-life-
long-impacts-and-are-questioned-by-legal/1251855.





n101.  Rader Brown, supra note 91, at 322.





n102.  Id.





n103.  Id. at 321 ("At least 23 states also impose increased mandatory sentences
for gang crimes ...").





n104.  Jacobs, supra note 89, at 706-07.





n105.  CALGANG(R), supra note 98.





n106.  Rader Brown, supra note 91, at 322 (urging notification procedures on
account of the legal and social consequences of gang classification for young
people).





n107.  Jacobs, supra note 89, at 708 ("Realistically, scrutiny of the gang
database is not going to be a high police-department priority. I think it is
likely that auditing will be conducted shoddily or not at all."); Rader Brown,
supra note 91, at 325-26 ("Current methods of populating and maintaining gang
databases are of questionable reliability and utility. Even where official
criteria and processes are established, implementation and oversight are
lacking.").





n108.  Rader Brown, supra note 91, at 320.





n109.  Jacobs, supra note 89, at 705.





n110.  Youth Justice Coal., supra note 85, at 6.





n111.  Charles M. Katz, Issues in the Production and Dissemination of Gang
Statistics: An Ethnographic Study of a Large Midwestern Police Gang Unit, 49
Crime & Delinq. 485, 504 (2003).





n112.  Aaron Kupchik, Homeroom Security: School Discipline in an Age of Fear
(2010); Schools Under Surveillance: Cultures of Control in Public Education
(Torin Monahan & Rodolfo D. Torres eds., 2010); see also Jason P. Nance, School
Surveillance and the Fourth Amendment, 79 Wis. L. Rev. 79 (2014).





n113.  Schools under Surveillance, supra note 112. Between the 1996-97 and
2007-08 school years, the number of public high schools with full-time law
enforcement and security guards tripled. Jacob Kang-Brown et al., Vera Inst. of
Justice, A Generation Later: What We've Learned About Zero Tolerance in Schools
2 (2013). Racial minority youth are disproportionately subjected to these
surveillance and policing practices. Aaron Kupchik, The School-to-Prison
Pipeline, in Choosing the Future for American Juvenile Justice 4, 96 (Franklin
E. Zimring & David S. Tanenhaus eds., 2014).





n114.  Kupchik, supra note 113, at 96 ("Students today often face suspension,
expulsion, or arrest for behaviors that at one time led to detention or a verbal
reprimand at the principal's office.").





n115.  Catherine Y. Kim, Daniel J. Losen & Damon T. Hewitt, The School-to-Prison
Pipeline: Structuring Legal Reform (2012); What Is The School-ToPrison
Pipeline?, Am. Civ. Liberties Union,
http://www.aclu.org/racial-justice/what-school-prison-pipeline (last visited
Dec. 18, 2015) ("The "school-to-prison pipeline' refers to the policies and
practices that push our nation's schoolchildren, especially our most at-risk
children, out of classrooms and into the juvenile and criminal justice
systems.").





n116.  Nance, supra note 112, at 90 ("Large, urban schools serving primarily
low-income or minority students are more likely to create intense surveillance
environments than other schools, [and] ... tend to rely on heavy-handed,
punitive-based measures to maintain order and control crime" and "are more
inclined to coerce students into compliance and to promote safety by
identifying, apprehending, and excluding students that school officials perceive
as being dangerous, disruptive, or low-performing.").





n117.  U.S. Dep't of Justice & U.S. Dep't of Educ., Dear Colleague Letter on
Nondiscriminatory Administration of School Discipline 4 (Jan. 8, 2014),
http://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-201401-title-vi.pdf;
Jason P. Nance, Students, Security, and Race, 63 Emory L.J. 1 (2013) (finding
that student race and student poverty were strong predictors for whether a
school chose to employ high surveillance security methods even after controlling
for factors that might influence the school officials' decisions to employ
strict security measures, such as school crime, neighborhood crime, and school
disorder).





n118.  Jason P. Nance, Students, Police, and the School-to-Prison Pipeline, 93
Wash. U. L. Rev. 1, 1 (forthcoming 2015) ("In the past, certain lower-level,
common offenses that occurred at school, such as fighting or threats without use
of a weapon, traditionally were handled only by educators, not by police
officers.").





n119.  Henry A. Giroux, Racial Injustice and Disposable Youth in the Age of Zero
Tolerance, 16 Int'l J. Qualitative Stud. 553, 557-58 (2010); Paul J.
Hirschfield, Preparing for Prison?: The Criminalization of School Discipline in
the USA, 12 Theoretical Criminology 79 (2008).





n120.  Kupchik, supra note 113, at 94.





n121.  See Nancy E. Dowd, What Men?: The Essentialist Error of the "End of Men,"
93 B.U. L. Rev. 1205, 1219 (2013) (noting the "increasing use of arrest as a
form of school discipline for behavior that in the past would have been handled
within school").





n122.  According to a Texas study, a single suspension or expulsion for a
discretionary offense that did not include a weapon almost tripled a student's
likelihood of becoming involved in the juvenile justice system in the following
academic year. Tony Fabelo et al., Justice Ctr. & Pub. Policy Research Inst.,
Breaking Schools' Rules: A Statewide Study of How School Discipline Relates to
Students' Success and Juvenile Justice Involvement (2011).





n123.  Improving America's Schools Act of 1994, Pub. L. No. 103-382, 108 Stat.
3518; Aaron Kupchik & Nicole L. Bracy, To Protect, Serve, and Mentor?, in
Schools Under Surveillance: Cultures of Control in Public Education 21, 22
(Torin Monahan & Rodolfo D. Torres eds., 2010); Jonathan Simon, Governing
Through Crime: How the War on Crime Transformed American Democracy and Created a
Culture of Fear 214-20 (2007).





n124.  In 2000, the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented
Police Services ("COPS") awarded $ 68 million in grants to schools across the
country specifically for the hiring of school resource officers. Supporting Safe
Schools, Cmty. Oriented Policing Servs.,
http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/Default.asp?Item=2687 (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n125.  In New York, the charge is "obstructing governmental administration."
N.Y. Penal Law § 195.05; Matthew T. Theriot, School Resource Officers and the
Criminalization of Student Behavior, 37 J. Crim. Just. 280, 281 (2009) ("Most
crime occurring at schools historically has not been reported to police, yet
having a police officer available and accessible at school facilitates
reporting.").





n126.  20 U.S.C. § 7151(h)(1) (2001).





n127.  A tremendous thank you to Jason P. Nance, Assistant Professor of Law at
the University of Florida Levin College of Law, who shared with me his initial
fifty-state survey of laws requiring schools to report to law enforcement.





n128.  See, e.g., Cal. Educ. Code § 48902 (West 2014); Del. Code Ann. tit. 14, §
4112(c) (West 2014).





n129.  Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 10-222d(b)(15) (West 2014); N.Y. Educ. Law § 13
(McKinney 2014) (raising that harassment, bullying, or discrimination
constitutes criminal conduct). Nebraska also requires reports of bullying.  Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 79-293 (2014).





n130.  105 Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann. 5/34-84a.1 (LexisNexis 2014).





n131.  Kan. Stat. Ann. § 72-89b03 (2014).





n132.  Kan. Stat. Ann. § 72-89b04 (2014).





n133.  Cal. Educ. Code § 44014 (West 2014).





n134.  Kirk Semple, Immigration Agency's Tactic Spurs Alarm, N.Y. Times, Sept.
18, 2010, at A15 (describing subpoena issued by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement ("ICE") to the New York City Department of Education seeking the
school records of a student enrolled in a public school and noting that "[a]
spokesman for the immigration agency said that it regularly asked schools around
the country for student records, and that most were "completely cooperative'").





n135.  Henning, supra note 63, at 547; Minn. Stat. § 121A.28 (2014) (indicating
that law enforcement must report a drug or alcohol violation to schools); Minn.
Stat. § 260B.171 (2014) (stating that law enforcement must report certain
juvenile court dispositions to schools, and must notify schools if there is
probable cause to believe a juvenile committed certain offenses).





n136.  Juvenile Law Ctr., Failed Policies, Forfeited Futures: A Nationwide
Scorecard on Juvenile Records 6 (2014).





n137.  United States v. Sechrist, 640 F.2d 81, 87 (7th Cir. 1981) (Congress
sought to "ensure that a juvenile's fingerprints or photograph would not be
taken unnecessarily and that once taken, they would remain secret."); Vovos v.
Grant, 555 P.2d 1343, 1347 (Wash. 1976); James Jacobs & Tamara Crepet, The
Expanding Scope, Use, and Availability of Criminal Records, 11 N.Y.U. J. Legis.
& Pub. Pol'y 177, 188 (2008).





n138.  Mary E. Murrell & David Lester, Introduction to Juvenile Delinquency 147,
173-74 (1981).





n139.  Barry C. Feld, Cases and Materials on Juveniles Justice Administration
373 (4th ed. 2013) ("Photographing and fingerprinting connote a criminal process
that may stigmatize or self-label a youth.").





n140.  Bureau of Justice Stats., U.S. Dep't of Justice, Privacy and Juvenile
Justice Records: A Mid-Decade Status Report 3 (1997).





n141.  Id.





n142.  Bureau of Justice Stats., U.S. Dep't of Justice, Juvenile Records and
Recordkeeping Systems v (1988) (calling juvenile fingerprinting "one of the most
intrusive procedures in the juvenile justice process").





n143.  Id.





n144.  Howard N. Snyder & Melissa Sickmund, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Juvenile
Offenders and Victims: 2006 National Report (2006),
http://www.ojjdp.gov/ojstatbb/nr2006/downloads/nr2006.pdf.





n145.  57 Fed. Reg. 31,315, 31,315 (July 15, 1992); 28 C.F.R. § 20.32 (1999)
("Criminal history record information maintained in the III System and the FIRS
shall include serious and/or significant adult and juvenile offenses."); Bureau
of Justice Stats., supra note 140; Jacobs & Crepet, supra note 137, at 188-90.





n146.  Smith v. Daily Mail Publ'g, 443 U.S. 97, 103 (1979) (holding that state
cannot prevent media from disclosing juvenile arrestee's identity via statute);
Okla. Pub. Co. v. Dist. Ct. of Okla., 430 U.S. 308, 309 (1977) (holding that
state cannot prevent media from disclosing juvenile arrestee's identity via
court order).





n147.  For example, in New York City, every stop-and-frisk is supposed to be
recorded in an official UF-250 police report. See Bernard E. Harcourt & Tracey
L. Meares, Randomization and the Fourth Amendment, 78 U. Chi. L. Rev. 809,
862-63 n.210 (2011) ("According to the NYPD's Patrol Guide, a police officer who
stops and frisks an individual must complete a UF-250 if a person is (1) stopped
by force; (2) stopped and frisked or searched; (3) arrested; or (4) stopped and
refuses to identify oneself... . In situations that fall outside these four
contexts, a police officer may fill out a form if he or she desires to do so.")
(citation omitted).





n148.  For an example from Texas, see Texas Law Enforcement Field Interview
Card, Tex. Dep't of Pub. Safety,
http://www.txdps.state.tx.us/internetforms/Forms/INT-7.pdf.





n149.  Jacobs, supra note 2.





n150.  See, e.g., Police Field Interview FI Card,
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wavesystems.ficard&hl=en.





n151.  Paul Clinton, LAPD Rampart's Special Problems Unit, Police: The Law
Enforcement Magazine (Mar. 15, 2013) (Special Problems Unit officers
"relentlessly fill out field interview cards to build a record of every vehicle
stop or contact. Several of the officers use the Field Contact mobile app to
store suspect data including photos, tattoos, and gang affiliation.").





n152.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 33.





n153.  Id. at 43 (including, for example, banks, housing authorities, and
organizations that provide child care services).





n154.  Madeline Neighly & Maurice Emsellem, Nat'l Emp't Law Project, Wanted:
Accurate FBI Background Checks for Employment 1 (2013).





n155.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 160-61.





n156.  Id. at 46-47 (discussing the inscrutability of rap sheets, which contain
state criminal code numbers, abbreviations, and jargon that are difficult to
interpret by lay users).





n157.  See Michael S. Schmidt, Have a Tattoo or Walk with a Limp? The Police May
Know, N.Y. Times, Feb. 18, 2010, at A19.





n158.  Id.





n159.  Jennifer Lynch, FBI Plans to Have 52 Million Photos in Its NGI Face
Recognition Database by Next Year, Electronic Frontier Found. (Apr. 14, 2014),
https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/04/fbi-plans-have-52-million-photos-its-ngi-f
ace-recognition-database-next-year.





n160.  National Crime Information Center, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ncic (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n161.  NCIC Files, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ncic/ncic_files (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).
The system contains images in addition to document records.





n162.  National Crime Information Center, supra note 160.





n163.  28 C.F.R. § 20.32(a) (1999) ("Criminal history record information
maintained in the III System and the FIRS shall include serious and/or
significant adult and juvenile offenses.").





n164.  Juvenile Law Ctr., supra note 136.





n165.  UCLA Sch. of Law Juvenile Justice Project, The Impact of Prosecuting
Youth in the Adult Criminal Justice System: A Review of the Literature 2 (2010).





n166.  See supra note 76 (explaining Youthful Offender adjudication).





n167.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 55.





n168.  Id. (describing court records as enjoying "practical obscurity" before
court-record centralization).





n169.  See Francis X. Aumand III & Ronald P.Hawley, SEARCH, Nat'l Consortium for
Just. Info. & Stats., Report of the National Task Force on the Commercial Sale
of Criminal Justice Record Information 5 (2005).





n170.  Charles Puzzanchera et al., Nat'l Ctr. for Juvenile Justice, Juvenile
Court Statistics 2008, 6 (2011), http://www.ncjj.org/pdf/jcsreports/jcs2008.pdf
(noting courts with juvenile jurisdiction handled an estimated 1.65 million
delinquency cases in 2008).





n171.  Miriam van Waters, Youth in Conflict 217 (1927).





n172.  Juvenile courts issue an adjudication, which is not a criminal
conviction. See, e.g., Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 203 (West 2014) ("An order
adjudging a minor to be a ward of the juvenile court shall not be deemed a
conviction of a crime for any purpose, nor shall a proceeding in the juvenile
court be deemed a criminal proceeding.").





n173.  Tanenhaus, supra note 27.





n174.  McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U.S. 528, 549-51 (1971) (holding that
juveniles do not have constitutional right to jury trial in juvenile delinquency
proceeding under either Sixth Amendment or Due Process Clause of Fourteenth
Amendment).





n175.  See Henning, supra note 63, at 525-30.





n176.  Thirty-nine states now permit or require juvenile delinquency hearings to
be open to the public, either for all proceedings or with certain age/offense
requirements influencing the decision. Kristen Rasmussen, Reporters Comm. For
Freedom of Press, Minors Making News: A State-by-State Guide to Juvenile Courts
Nationwide 4-5 (2012); Lina A. Syzmanski, Nat'l Ctr. for Juvenile Justice,
Confidentiality of Juvenile Delinquency Hearings 1 (2008),
http//:www.ncjj.org/PDF/Snapshots/2008/vol13_no5_confidentiality2008.pdf ("The
trend has been for much greater openness in juvenile delinquency hearings.").





n177.  Riya Saha Shah & Lauren Fine, Juvenile Law Ctr., Juvenile Records: A
National Review of State Laws on Confidentiality, Sealing and Expungement 6
(2014),
http://juvenilerecords.jlc.org/juvenilerecords/documents/publications/national-r
eview.pdf.





n178.  Id.





n179.  Jacobs, supra note 82, at 161 ("in at least 30 states the names and
photos of violent and repeat juvenile offenders can be released to the public").





n180.  Nat'l Ass'n of Criminal Def. Lawyers, Collateral Damage: America's
Failure to Forgive or Forget in the War on Crime 61 (2014),
http://www.nacdl.org/restoration/roadmapreport ("You could actually, right now,
purchase every juvenile record for 24 bucks in the state of Florida, even if it
was a seven-year old, even if it was dismissed. It doesn't matter. You can get
the record.").





n181.  Shah & Fine, supra note 177, at 6.





n182.  Davis v. Alaska, 415 U.S. 308, 320-21 (1974).





n183.  Juvenile Law Ctr., supra note 136, at 9.





n184.  Id. at 19.





n185.  Id. at 43-45.





n186.  Julie E. Samuels et al., Urban Inst., Justice Policy Ctr., Collecting DNA
from Juveniles 32-35 (2011),
http://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/alfresco/publication-pdfs/412487-Collec
ting-DNA-from-Juveniles.PDF.





n187.  Erin Murphy, Relative Doubt: Familial Searches of DNA Databases, 109
Mich. L. Rev. 291, 294-97 (2010). A DNA profile consists solely of numbers
describing the number of times certain known sequences repeat themselves and
identifying information for the agency that provided the DNA sample; it does not
contain any personal information (such as the name and address) of the
individual to whom it belongs. H.R. Rep. No. 106-900, pt. 1, at 27 (2000).





n188.  These government databases include the State DNA Index System ("SDIS"),
the Local DNA Index System ("LDIS"), and the National DNA Index System ("NDIS").
Samuels et al., supra note 186, at 10.





n189.  Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the CODIS Program and the National
DNA Index System, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/lab/biometric-analysis/codis/codis-and-ndis-fact-she
et (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n190.  Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1966 (2013) ("Law enforcement, the
defense bar, and the courts have acknowledged DNA testing's "unparalleled
ability both to exonerate the wrongly convicted and to identify the guilty. It
has the potential to significantly improve both the criminal justice system and
police investigative practices.'").





n191.  42 U.S.C. § 14135a(a)(1)(A) (2000). Federal law permits the use of force
in taking the DNA sample. Id. § 14135a(a)(4)(A); Collection of DNA Samples, 28
C.F.R. § 28.12(d) (2014). Those who fail to cooperate in DNA collection face a
Class A misdemeanor charge punishable by up to one year in prison. 42 U.S.C. §
14135a(a)(5); 18 U.S.C. § 3559(a)(6) (2012). States have similar provisions.





n192.  Haw. Rev. Stat. § 844D-31 (2014) ("Any person, except for any juvenile,
who is convicted of, or pleads guilty or no contest to, any felony offense ...
shall provide buccal swab samples").





n193.  Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, and Wyoming collect only for felonies. See Haw.
Rev. Stat. § 844D-31 (2014); Idaho Code § 19-5506 (2014); Ind. Code § 10-13-6-10
(2014); Wyo. Stat. Ann. § 7-19-403 (2011). New York has the broadest regime,
mandating collection following a conviction for any felony and any misdemeanor
except first-time, low-level marijuana possession.  N.Y. Exec. Law § 995(7)
(McKinney 2013).





n194.  See Kevin Lapp, As Though They Were Not Children: DNA Collection from
Juveniles, 89 Tul. L. Rev. 435, 452 (2014) (collecting citations).





n195.  Id. at 454.





n196.  Id.





n197.  Id. at 458. After King (upholding preconviction DNA collection), the
number of states authorizing arrestee DNA collection is likely to rise. At the
time King was decided, several states had yet to begin or fully implement their
arrestee DNA law. Julie E. Samuels et al., Collecting DNA at Arrest: Policies,
Practices, and Implications, Urban Inst. 24 (2013),
http://www.urban.org/research/publication/collecting-dna-arrest-policies-practic
es-and-implications/view/full_report.





n198.  Eight of the nineteen explicitly authorize collection from arrested
juveniles, and another eleven implicitly authorize it by mandating collection
from "persons" or "individuals" and not explicitly defining juveniles out of
those categories. See Lapp, supra note 194, at 459 (collecting citations).





n199.  Elizabeth N. Jones, "Spit and Acquit": Legal and Practical Ramifications
of the DA's DNA Gathering Program, Orange County Law. Mag., Sept. 2009, at 18.





n200.  Id.





n201.  Joseph Goldstein, Police Agencies Are Assembling Records of DNA, N.Y.
Times (June 12, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/13/us/police-agencies-are-assembling-records-of-d
na.html (noting several cities, including New York City, Denver, Palm Bay,
Florida, are building their own DNA databases).





n202.  Police Collect DNA from Middle-Schoolers in Murder Investigation, L.A.
Times (Apr. 17, 2012, 8:39 AM),
http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/lanow/2012/04/police-collect-dna-from-8th-grader
s-for-murder-investigation.html. In a news report about the DNA collection,
Deputy Jason Ramos of the Sacramento County Sheriff's Department said, "We don't
require the consent of a parent if we're doing it with someone of a younger
age." Id.





n203.  See Brian Maass, Brighton Police Say Taking DNA from Child Victims an
"Oversight,' CBS Denver (Nov. 16, 2011, 11:58 PM),
http://denver.cbslocal.com/2011/11/16/brighton-police-say-taking-dna-from-child-
victims-an-oversight.





n204.  According to a 2011 Urban Institute report, ten states that provided data
had a total of over 121,000 DNA profiles as of the end of 2008 that came from
individuals who were juveniles at the time of collection, representing 6.2% of
all DNA profiles uploaded by these states. Samuels et al., supra note 186, at
17. Taking that ratio as a baseline, 6.2% of the current CODIS DNA profile
database would be approximately 800,000 juvenile profiles. CODIS - NDIS
Statistics, Fed. Bureau of Investigation,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/lab/biometric-analysis/codis/ndis-statistics (last
visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n205.  Courts with juvenile jurisdiction handle over 1.5 million delinquency
cases annually. Puzzanchera, supra note 170, at 6. Moreover, in 2012, almost one
million arrests of persons under age eighteen were made in the United States.
FBI Uniform Crime Reports: Table 36, Fed. Bureau of Investigation (2012),
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/crime-in-the-u.s/2012/crime-in-the-u.s.-201
2/tables/36tabledatadecoverviewpdf.





n206.  42 U.S.C. § 16911 (2006) (no exceptions for minors convicted in criminal
court).





n207.  Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against Children and Sexually Violent Offender
Registration Program, 42 U.S.C. §§14071-73 (repealed 2006).





n208.  Nicole I. Pittman & Quyen Nguyen, A Snapshot of Juvenile Sex Offender
Registration and Notification Laws: A Survey of the United States 32 (2011).





n209.  The statute is codified at 42 U.S.C. § 16901-62 (2009).





n210.  42 U.S.C. § 16911(8) (2006) (defining the term "convicted" to include
individuals "adjudicated delinquent as a juvenile ... , but only if the offender
is 14 years of age or older at the time of the offense and the offense
adjudicated was comparable to or more severe than aggravated sexual abuse").
States that are not in substantial compliance with SORNA forfeit federal funds.
Pittman & Nguyen, supra note 208, at 7. ("States that fail to comply ... in a
timely manner will forfeit 10% of their Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
(JAG) Omnibus Crime federal funding.").





n211.  Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-248,
§ 111, 120 Stat. 588.





n212.  The National Guidelines for Sex Offender Registration and Notification,
73 Fed. Reg. 38,030 38,032 (July 2, 2008).





n213.  Pittman & Nguyen, supra note 208, at 32.





n214.  See N.C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 14-208.26(a) (West 2014) (subjecting juveniles
at least eleven years of age at the time of the commission of the offense to sex
offender registration); In re Ronnie A., 585 S.E.2d 311 (S.C. 2003) (holding
registration of eleven-year-old juvenile who was nine at time of offense did not
violate due process).





n215.  Pittman & Nguyen, supra note 208, at 32.





n216.  Michael F. Caldwell et al., An Examination of the Sex Offender
Registration and Notification Act as Applied to Juveniles: Evaluating the
Ability to Predict Sexual Recidivism, 14 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 89, 105
(2008).





n217.  42 U.S.C. § 16911(5)(C) (2014); Pittman & Nguyen, supra note 208, at 32.





n218.  Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, Pub. L. No.
106-386, 114 Stat. 1464 (codified in scattered sections of chapters 18, 22, 27
and 42 of the U.S.C.) (requiring sex offenders to report their enrollment in or
employment at an institution of higher learning).





n219.  Pam Lyncher Sexual Offender Tracking and Identification Act of 1996, 42
U.S.C. § 14072 (1996).





n220.  Nat'l Sex Offender Pub. Website, U.S. Dep't of Just.,
http://www.nsopw.gov/ (last visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n221.  Nicole Pittman & Alison Parker, Human Rights Watch, Raised on the
Registry: The Irreparable Harm of Placing Children on Sex Offender Registries in
the US 40 (2013).





n222.  Id. at 5 (noting that failure to pay fees can lead to rearrest). Colorado
imposes a registration fee of between $ 150 and $ 400, depending on the
seriousness of the sex offense.  Colo. Rev. Stat. § 18-21-103 (2015). Michigan
charges $ 50 annually. Sex Offenders Registration Act, Mich. Comp. Laws §
28.725a(6) (2014).





n223.  David Finkelhor, Richard Ormrod & Mark Chaffin, Juvenile Justice
Bulletin, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Juveniles Who Commit Sex Offenses Against
Minors 3 (2009), http://www.unh.edu/ccrc/pdf/CV171.pdf.





n224.  Caldwell et al., supra note 216, at 105; Charles Puzzanchera, Juvenile
Offenders & Victims: Nat'l Report Series, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Juvenile
Arrests 2011, at 3 (2013), http://www.ojjdp.gov/pubs/244476.pdf (noting that in
2011, 15,400 juveniles were arrested for sex offenses).





n225.  Amy E. Halbrook, Juvenile Pariahs, 65 Hastings L.J. 1, 22 (2013).





n226.  42 U.S.C. § 16981 (2008).





n227.  See, e.g., Lemmon v. Harris, 949 N.E.2d 803, 804-05 (Ind. 2011)
(involving defendant who was originally required to register for ten years was
reclassified to require lifetime registration).





n228.  Elizabeth E. Mustaine et al., Residential Location and Mobility of
Registered Sex Offenders, 30 Am. J. Crim. Just. 177, 190 (2006).





n229.  Richard Tewksbury, Collateral Consequences of Sex Offender Registration,
21 J. Contemp. Crim. Just. 67, 68 (2005); Richard Tewksbury & Matthew Lees,
Perceptions of Sex Offender Registration: Collateral Consequences and Community
Experiences, 26 Soc. Spectrum 309, 331-32 (2006).





n230.  Smith v. Doe, 538 U.S. 84, 99 (2003) ("It must be acknowledged that
notice of criminal conviction subjects the offender to public shame, the
humiliation increasing in proportion to the extent of the publicity. And the
geographic reach of the Internet is greater than anything that could have been
designed in colonial times."); Elizabeth Garfinkle, Coming of Age in America:
The Misapplication of Sex-Offender Registration and Community-Notification Laws
to Juveniles, 91 Calif. L. Rev. 163 (2003).





n231.  Indeed, one study suggested that including juveniles in SORNA Tier 3
could actually create a greater risk to community safety. Caldwell et al., supra
note 216, at 106.





n232.  Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 52.





n233.  United States v. Juvenile Male, 670 F.3d 999, 1010 (9th Cir. 2012)
(holding that requiring juvenile sex offenders to register in a database is not
cruel and unusual punishment); In re J.W., 787 N.E.2d 747, 760 (Ill. 2003)
(holding that lifetime juvenile sex offender registration did not constitute
cruel and unusual punishment post-Roper, partially because juveniles'
registration information is not publicly disseminated).





n234.  See infra Part IV.





n235.  See McDermott & Duque Raley, supra note 7, at 438 (describing school
records of misbehavior and missing behavior as "the institutional biographies
that record a child's problems in school files forever").





n236.  Nigel Hamilton, Biography: A Brief History (2010).





n237.  See Donna M. Bishop & Michael J. Leiber, Racial and Ethnic Differences in
Delinquency and Justice System Responses, in The Oxford Handbook of Juvenile
Crime and Juvenile Justice 445 (Barry C. Feld and Donna M. Bishop eds., 2012);
Barry C. Feld, Cops, Kids, and Confessions: Inside the Interrogation Room 10
(2013); Nat'l Council on Crime & Delinq., And Justice for Some: Differential
Treatment of Youth of Color in the Justice System (2007).





n238.  See Feld, supra note 237, at 10.





n239.  Paul D. Butler, Poor People Lose: Gideon and the Critique of Rights, 122
Yale L.J. 2176, 2181 (2013); see also David Cole, No Equal Justice: Race and
Class in the American Criminal Justice System (1999).





n240.  The deterrent value of databasing is contested. See, e.g., Sheldon
Krimsky & Tania Simoncelli, Genetic Justice: DNA Data Banks, Criminal
Investigations, and Civil Liberties 148 (2011) ("Currently there is no empirical
evidence to support the often-stated claim that DNA databases deter crime.").





n241.  See Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1971 (2013).





n242.  For example, when an officer pulls over a driver and runs the license
plate, and learns that the owner of the vehicle has prior arrests or convictions
for weapons or violent offenses, the officer can more prudently approach the
individual.





n243.  Nance, supra note 112, at 96-97.





n244.  CODIS - NDIS Statistics, supra note 204 ("As of August 2015, CODIS has
produced over 293,808 hits assisting in more than 279,741 investigations."); see
DNA Exonerations Nationwide, Innocence Project,
http://www.innocenceproject.org/Content/DNA_Exonerations_Nationwide.php (last
visited Dec. 18, 2015) (providing an account of the 330 post-conviction DNA
exonerations to date).





n245.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Big Data and Predictive Reasonable Suspicion,
163 U. Pa. L. Rev. 327, 330 (2015) (imagining a situation where police
investigating a series of robberies use facial recognition software that matches
a person walking down the street in the vicinity of the robberies to an arrest
photo from a computerized database, and that person's criminal history
[instantly displayed in the patrol car] shows prior robbery arrests and
convictions).





n246.  Id. at 370-71 (noting that predictive policing technologies are already
in use, and that several jurisdictions maintain lists of individuals they
predict will commit crimes in the future); Robert L. Mitchell, Predictive
Policing Gets Personal, Computerworld (Oct. 24, 2013, 7:00 AM),
http://www.computerworld.com/article/2486424/government-it/predictivepolicing-ge
ts-personal.html (quoting the Charlotte, N.C. Chief of Police as saying "We
could name our top 300 offenders... . So we will focus on those individuals ...
.").





n247.  Piquero, Farrington & Blumstein, supra note 35, at 424; see also Travis
Hirschi & Michael Gottfredson, Age and the Explanation of Crime, 89 Am. J. Soc.
552, 555 (1983) (The age-crime curve "has remained virtually unchanged in 150
years ...").





n248.  See Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 40.





n249.  Erin Murphy, Paradigms of Restraint, 57 Duke L.J. 1321, 1329 (2008)
(noting that most states allow indefinite retention of the DNA sample containing
the individual's entire genetic code).





n250.  Murphy, supra note 1, at 805-10.





n251.  Courts have, for example, acknowledged the "vast amount of sensitive
information that can be mined from a person's DNA and the very strong privacy
interests that all individuals have in this information." United States v.
Amerson, 483 F.3d 73, 86 (2d Cir. 2007); see also Garfinkel, supra note 1.





n252.  Gary B. Melton, Minors and Privacy: Are Legal and Psychological Concepts
Compatible?, 62 Neb. L. Rev. 455, 475, 477 (1983).





n253.  M. Ryan Calo, The Boundaries of Privacy Harm, 86 Ind. L.J. 1131, 1133
(2011).





n254.  Id. at 1145 ("Many subjective privacy harms ... will be backward looking
insofar as the offending observation has already ended at the time of discovery
(or because of it).").





n255.  Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 51-52.





n256.  Calo, supra note 253, at 1133; see also Rios, supra note 93, at 78 ("When
the police classified Spider as a gang member, school staff, community workers,
and other adults in the community also adopted this categorization.").





n257.  Erving Goffman, Stigma: Notes on the Management of Spoiled Identity 3 (2d
ed. 1963); Stigma, Oxford English Dictionary 689 (2d ed. 1989) (denoting that in
Greek, the mark or brand known as stigma was used to identify those who were not
full members of ancient Greek society); W. David Ball, The Civil Case at the
Heart of Criminal Procedure: In re Winship, Stigma, and the Civil-Criminal
Distinction, 38 Am. J. Crim. L. 117, 146 (2011).





n258.  Ball, supra note 257, at 148.





n259.  In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358, 363 (1970); Ball, supra note 257, at 139.





n260.  In re Gault, 387 U.S. 1, 23 (1967).





n261.  Bruce G. Link & Jo C. Phelan, Conceptualizing Stigma, 27 Ann. Rev. Soc.
363, 380 (2001).





n262.  Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 50; Chrysanthi S. Leon, Sex Fiends,
Perverts, and Pedophiles: Understanding Sex Crime Policy in America (2011).





n263.  Ann Arnett Ferguson, Bad Boys: Public Schools in the Making of Black
Masculinity 2-3 (2000); Nance, supra note 112, at 97 (Schools have "recast
disruptive students as criminals who must be reformed through punitive
measures.").





n264.  Rios, supra note 93; Barrows & Huff, supra note 86, at 678 ("Police often
target the wrong individuals, thereby potentially driving them into gang
membership because they are treated as, and known as, gang members.").





n265.  Ball, supra note 257; Jon Gunnar Bernburg, Marvin D. Krohn & Craig J.
Rivera, Official Labeling, Criminal Embeddedness, and Subsequent Delinquency: A
Longitudinal Test of Labeling Theory, 43 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 67, 69 (2006).





n266.  Link & Phelan, supra note 261, at 370.





n267.  John J. DiIulio Jr., The Coming of the Super-Predators, Wkly. Standard,
Nov. 27, 1995, at 23.





n268.  Edwin Lemert, Social Pathology (1951); Goffman, supra note 257; Bernburg,
Krohn & Rivera, supra note 265.





n269.  William D. Payne, Negative Labels: Passageways and Prisons, 19 Crime &
Delinq. 33, 35 (1973) (Negative social labels stimulate antisocial behavior;
they create the expectation that an individual will conform to the label and
"play an important part in an individual's passage from merely having committed
a questionable act to possessing a "deviant character.'").





n270.  Ball, supra note 257, at 146; Bruce G. Link et al., A Modified Labeling
Theory Approach to Mental Disorders: An Empirical Assessment, 54 Am. Soc. Rev.
400, 402-03 (1989); Terri A. Winnick & Mark Bodkin, Anticipated Stigma and
Stigma Management Among Those to be Labeled "Ex-Con", 29 Deviant Behav. 295, 301
(2008) ("Secondary deviance is not a direct result of labeling, but rather an
indirect result of coping, or stigma management, which has the ironic effect of
shaping the conditions under which secondary deviance is more likely.").





n271.  Smith v. Doe, 538 U.S. 84, 115 (2003) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting)
(identifying the "profound humiliation and community-wide ostracism" that
attends sex offender community notification); Note, Shame, Stigma, and Crime:
Evaluating the Efficacy of Shaming Sanctions in Criminal Law, 116 Harv. L. Rev.
2187 (2003); Tewksbury, supra note 229, at 68 (identifying lost friends and
harassment and rude treatment among the many stigmatizing effects of sex
offender registration).





n272.  Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 50.





n273.  Once information gets on the Internet, it stays there, even after a
person has been removed from the sex offender registry. Id. at 44.





n274.  Caldwell et al., supra note 216, at 106 (including juveniles in SORNA
Tier 3 could actually create a greater risk to community safety).





n275.  K. Babe Howell, Fear Itself: The Impact of Allegations of Gang
Affiliation on Pre-Trial Detention, 23 St. Thomas L. Rev. 620, 647 (2011)
("While Wannabes may commit crimes or delinquent acts either on their own, as
members of wannabe delinquent groups, or to obtain reputation and membership,
the acts are not done for the gang so much as to enhance the individuals'
reputation.").





n276.  Barrows & Huff, supra note 86, at 678; Howell, supra note 87, at 30-31.





n277.  Kupchik, supra note 112, at 94.





n278.  S. & Marper v. United Kingdom, 2008-V Eur. Ct. H.R. 167 (noting the risk
of stigmatization in treating persons who have not been convicted in the same
way as convicted persons by retaining their DNA); compare Feld, supra note 139,
at 373 ("Photographing and fingerprinting connote a criminal process that may
stigmatize or self-label a youth ... .").





n279.  See infra Part III.A.2.





n280.  See infra Part III.A.3.





n281.  Inst. of Judicial Admin., Am. Bar Ass'n, Standards Relating to Juvenile
Records and Information Systems 2 (1979).





n282.  Ball, supra note 257, at 148.





n283.  Id.





n284.  Johnson v. Texas, 509 U.S. 350, 368 (1993); Scott, supra note 48, at 86
n.80 ("Much adolescent criminal activity is the product of developmental
influences and not of bad character.").





n285.  See Moffitt, supra note 36, at 675 ("The rates for both prevalence and
incidence of offending appear highest during adolescence; they peak sharply at
about age 17 and drop precipitously in young adulthood ... by the early 20s, the
number of active offenders decreases by over 50%, and by age 28, almost 85% of
former delinquents desist from offending.").





n286.  Graham v. Florida, 560 U.S. 1, 68 (2009).





n287.  See Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551, 573 (2004) ("It is difficult even for
expert psychologists to differentiate between the juvenile offender whose crime
reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender
whose crime reflects irreparable corruption.").





n288.  The enacting legislation in several states, for example, includes a
finding that DNA databasing is an important tool in deterring recidivist acts.
See, e.g., Neb. Rev. Stat. § 29-4102 (2010) ("The Legislature finds that DNA
data banks are an important tool ... in deterring and detecting recidivist
acts").





n289.  See, e.g., Krimsky & Simoncelli, supra note 240, at 148 ("Currently there
is no empirical evidence to support the often-stated claim that DNA databases
deter crime."). But see Avinash Bhati, Justice Policy Ctr., Urban Inst.,
Quantifying the Specific Deterrent Effects of DNA Databases 56 (2010),
http://www.urban.org/uploadedpdf/412058_dna_databases.pdf (finding two to three
percent reductions in recidivism risk attributable to specific deterrence for
robbery and burglary resulting from DNA databasing).





n290.  Scott & Steinberg, supra note 29, at 56 ("The research on the general
deterrent effect of legal regulation on juvenile crime is sparse and gives no
clear answer to the question of whether ... punitive measures reduce juvenile
crime.").





n291.  Christopher Slobogin & Mark R. Fondacaro, Juvenile Justice: The Fourth
Option, 95 Iowa L. Rev. 1, 44 (2009).





n292.  Feld, supra note 237, at 10 ("At every stage - arrest, intake, referral,
petition, detention, trial, and disposition - youths of color fare less well
than do their white counterparts ..."); Bishop & Leiber, supra note 237.





n293.  Krimsky & Simoncelli, supra note 240, at 252 (describing racial disparity
in DNA databanks). DNA databases have been referred to as a "Jim Crow database."
Harry G. Levine et al., Drug Arrests and DNA: Building Jim Crow's Database 4
(2008),
http://www.councilforresponsiblegenetics.org/pagedocuments/0rrxbggaei.pdf.





n294.  Of the 201,094 in the CalGang database (as of December 2012), for
example, nearly 20% are African American (6.6% of California population); 66%
Latino (38% of California population). Youth Justice Coal., supra note 85, at
8-9.





n295.  Daniel M. Filler, Silence and the Racial Dimension of Megan's Law, 89
Iowa L. Rev. 1535, 1538 (2004) (noting that community notification provisions
have a significantly disparate racial impact; African Americans are
overrepresented on public registries of criminals).





n296.  Nance, supra note 117, at 48.





n297.  Coffee, supra note 62, at 591 ("The greater the police focus, the more
information is recorded, and the more information recorded, the greater the
chance that police discretion will be influenced by the records created
thereby.").





n298.  Indeed, that is the point of law enforcement intelligence gathering.





n299.  Anhony Petrosino et al., Campbell Systematic Reviews, Formal System
Processing of Juveniles: Effects on Delinquency (2010),
http://www.campbellcollaboration.org/lib/download/761/ (finding in a
comprehensive meta-analysis that juvenile system processing appears not to have
a crime control effect but instead appears to increase delinquency across all
measures); Tamar R. Birckhead, Delinquent by Reason of Poverty, 38 Wash. U. J.L.
& Pol'y 53, 97 (2012) (discussing studies finding criminogenic effect of
juvenile court processing).





n300.  Jennifer L. Doleac, The Effects of DNA Databases on Crime 26 (Dec. 2,
2012) (working paper) (noting that when young offenders "have little
(non-criminal) human capital in the form of education, employment experience, or
ties to friends and family to rely on when they are released").





n301.  Ferguson, supra note 245, at 327 (imagining a situation where police
investigating a series of robberies use facial recognition software that matches
a person walking down the street in the vicinity of the robberies to an arrest
photo from a computerized database, and that person's criminal history
[instantly displayed in the patrol car] shows prior robbery arrests and
convictions).





n302.  Id. at 335.





n303.  Will Hobson, Overhaul Coming to Pinellas Gang Intelligence Database,
Tampa Bay Times (June 9, 2013, 4:30 AM),
http://www.tampabay.com/news/courts/criminal/overhaul-coming-to-pinellas-gang-in
telligence-database/2125725 (describing story of person who was erroneously
placed in database and got pulled over/stopped a bunch of times as a result);
Howell, supra note 87, at 30-31.





n304.  Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 3.





n305.  Herring v. United States, 555 U.S. 135, 155 (2009) (Ginsburg, J.,
dissenting) ("The risk of error stemming from these databases is not slim... .
Inaccuracies in expansive, interconnected collections of electronic information
raise grave concerns for individual liberty.").





n306.  Neighly & Emsellem, supra note 154, at 1.





n307.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 134-35; Legal Action Ctr., The Problem of Rap
Sheet Errors: An Analysis by the Legal Action Center 5 (2013).





n308.  Legal Action Ctr., supra note 307, at 5 (noting that between five percent
and fifteen percent of New York rap sheets contained information about dismissed
cases or violations that should have been sealed); Joy Radice, Administering
Justice: Removing Statutory Barriers to Reentry, 83 U. Colo. L. Rev. 715, 750
(2012). Allocating resources to auditing databases, especially with regard to
old information, is unlikely to ever be a high law enforcement priority.





n309.  In both Arizona v. Evans, 514 U.S. 1 (1995) and Herring v. United States,
555 U.S. 135 (2009), errors in a law enforcement database indicating an
outstanding arrest warrant led to an unlawful arrest and subsequent search by
police that produced contraband.





n310.  Brady Gervais, Ramsey County Pulling Plug on Controversial Gang Database,
Pioneer Press (Aug. 3, 2011, 12:01 AM), http://www.twincities.com/ci_18604634.





n311.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 307.





n312.  See id.





n313.  Samuels et al., supra note 186, at 7 (finding few DNA profiles are ever
expunged from databases); Joshua D. Wright, The Constitutional Failure of Gang
Databases, 2 Stan. J. Civ. Rts. & Civ. Liberties 115, 115 (2005) ("responsible
agencies systematically fail to adhere to policies requiring names to be purged
after specified amounts of time without criminal or gang activity.").





n314.  Ninety percent of employers conduct background checks on prospective
employees. Michelle Natividad Rodriguez & Maurice Emsellem, Nat'l Emp't Law
Project, 65 Million "Need Not Apply": The Case for Reforming Criminal Background
Checks for Employment 1 (2011).





n315.  The Common Application, used by over 500 colleges, asks about criminal
conviction and school disciplinary records. See The Common Application,
https://www.commonapp.org/Login (last visited Dec. 18, 2015); Ctr. for Cmty.
Alts., The Use of Criminal History Records in College Admissions Reconsidered 1
(2011),
http://www.communityalternatives.org/pdf/Reconsidered-criminal-hist-recs-in-coll
ege-admissions.pdf (finding that sixty-six percent of colleges surveyed collect
criminal history information from applicants).





n316.  David Thacher, The Rise of Criminal Background Screening in Rental
Housing, 33 Law & Soc. Inquiry 5 (2008).





n317.  In the wake of the Ferguson, Missouri death of Michael Brown, the St.
Louis Post-Dispatch filed a petition seeking Michael Brown's juvenile records.
Jeremy Kohler, Judge Denies Request for Michael Brown's Juvenile Records, St.
Louis Post-Dispatch (Sept. 9, 2014, 4:45 PM),
http://www.stltoday.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/judge-denies-request-for-mic
hael-brown-s-juvenile-records/article_43dfd98b-32ec-550d-b399-750133f69203.html.





n318.  Nico Savidge, Cottage Grove Man Arrested on Suspicion of Burning House
Intended for Sex Offender, Wis. St. J. (Feb. 26, 2015),
http://host.madison.com/news/local/crime_and_courts/cottage-grove-man-arrested-o
n-suspicion-of-burning-house-intended/article_083d6199-5d56-5147-8a5e-db19123cbc
ec.html.





n319.  See supra Part I.





n320.  Devah Pager, Marked: Race, Crime, and Finding Work in an Era of Mass
Incarceration 4 (2007).





n321.  See, e.g., Jeremy Travis, Invisible Punishment: An Instrument of Social
Exclusion, in Invisible Punishment: The Collateral Consequences of Mass
Imprisonment 16 (Marc Mauer & Meda Chesney-Lind eds., 2002) (explaining that
collateral consequence laws constitute "invisible punishment," because they
"operate largely beyond public view, yet have very serious, adverse consequences
for the individuals affected"); Nora V. Demleitner, Preventing Internal Exile:
The Need for Restrictions on Collateral Sentencing Consequences, 11 Stan. L. &
Pol'y Rev. 153, 155 (1999).





n322.  Christopher Gowen, Lisa Thurau & Meghan Wood, The ABA's Approach to
Juvenile Justice Reform: Education, Eviction, and Employment: The Collateral
Consequences of Juvenile Adjudication, 3 Duke F.L. & Soc. Change 187 (2011);
Eisha Jain, Arrests as Regulation, 67 Stan. L. Rev. 809 (2015).





n323.  Robert Brame et al., Demographic Patterns of Cumulative Arrest Prevalence
by Ages 18 and 23, 60 Crime & Delinq. 471, 472 (2014) ("There is substantial
research showing that arrested youth are not only more likely to experience
immediate negative consequences such as contact with the justice system, school
failure and dropout, and family difficulties, but these problems are likely to
reverberate long down the life course in terms of additional arrests, job
instability, lower wages, longer bouts with unemployment, more relationship
troubles, and long-term health problems including premature death.").





n324.  Nat'l Emp't Law Project, supra note 314, at 1.





n325.  While some states prohibit employers from asking job applicants to
disclose arrests, many do not. See Are Employers Permitted to Ask Applicants
About Arrests on Job Applications?, Nat'l Hire Network,
http://hirenetwork.org/content/are-employers-permitted-ask-applicants-about-arre
sts-job-applications (last visited Dec. 18, 2015) (identifying thirty-eight
states that allow employers to ask about arrests); see also U.S. Equal Emp't
Opportunity Comm'n, Policy Guidance on the Consideration of Arrest Records in
Employment Decisions Under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
Amended, 42 U.S.C. §§2000e-2000E17 (1990),
http://www.eeoc.gov/policy/docs/arrest_records.html.





n326.  Mustaine et al., supra note 228, at 190.





n327.  Tewksbury, supra note 229, at 68; Tewksbury & Lees, supra note 229, at
331-32 (2006).





n328.  Smith v. Doe, 538 U.S. 84, 99 (2003) ("It must be acknowledged that
notice of a criminal conviction subjects the offender to public shame, the
humiliation increasing in proportion to the extent of the publicity. And the
geographic reach of the Internet is greater than anything that could have been
designed in colonial times."); Garfinkle, supra note 230, at 204.





n329.  Indeed, one study suggested that including juveniles in SORNA Tier 3
could actually create a greater risk to community safety. Caldwell et al., supra
note 216, at 106.





n330.  Pittman & Parker, supra note 221, at 52.





n331.  For the importance of the emergence into adulthood, see Jeffrey Jensen
Arnett, Emerging Adulthood: What Is it and What Is it Good For?, Child Dev.
Persps. 68 (2007).





n332.  Laurence Steinberg, Age of Opportunity: Lessons from the New Science of
Adolescence (2014).





n333.  See In re J.B., 107 A.3d 1, 14 (Pa. 2014) (finding lifetime registration
for juvenile sex offenders unconstitutional).





n334.  In re C.P., 967 N.E.2d 729, 741-42 (Ohio 2012).





n335.  Allen, supra note 52, at 1.





n336.  Id. at 196 (Accountability promotes order by enforcing norms, deterring
unwanted behavior through punishment or the threat of sanctions. It also
dignifies individuals by "presupposing intelligence, rationality, and
competence.").





n337.  Id. at 15 (describing "The New Accountability" for private life as "bold,
democratic, and super-powered by technology").





n338.  One main purpose of juvenile court is juvenile accountability.





n339.  Allen, supra note 52, at 4 (noting that "a society cannot afford to fully
leave people alone").





n340.  Id. at 29 (stating young people are "typically excused from the high
level of accountability imposed on adults"); Wallace, supra note 52, at 164-65.





n341.  Appell, supra note 9, at 736 ("Developmental facts do not dictate the
contours or boundaries of childhood. Ideology does."); Archard, supra note 10,
at 33.





n342.  Scott & Steinberg, supra note 29, at 109-12.





n343.  Sarah Burns, The Central Park Five: The Untold Story Behind One of New
York City's Most Infamous Crimes (2012).





n344.  House Bill 1501 and Senate Bill 254 were passed by the House and Senate,
respectively, in the wake of the Columbine shooting, and each sought to impose
enhanced sanctions for juveniles. See H.R. 1501, 106th Cong. § 2 (1999)
(lowering the minimum age for federal prosecution of certain crimes to 14); S.
254, 106th Cong. § 102 (1999). See Dave Cullen, Columbine (2009), for a
comprehensive and compelling account of the Columbine tragedy.





n345.  DeIulio, supra note 267, at 23; Alfred S. Regnery, Getting Away with
Murder: Why the Juvenile Justice System Needs an Overhaul, 34 Pol'y Rev. 65, 68
(1985) (contending that juvenile offenders "are criminals who happen to be
young, not children who happen to commit crimes" and that "there is no reason
that society should be more lenient with a 16-year-old first offender than a
30-year-old first offender.").





n346.  Dole Seeks to Get Tough on Young Criminals, L.A. Times, July 7, 1996
(quoting Bob Dole during his 1996 presidential campaign as saying "[a] violent
teenager who commits an adult crime should be treated as an adult in court and
should receive adult punishment"); Virginia Ellis, Lungren to Seek Lower Age for
Trial as Adult, L.A. Times, Jan. 15, 1993, at A3 (quoting California Attorney
General Dan Lungren: "If you commit an adult crime, you'd better be prepared to
do adult time.").





n347.  Maroney, supra note 15, at 189 (calling this period the "superpredator
era").





n348.  See Yarborough v. Alvarado, 541 U.S. 652, 668 (2004) (rejecting argument
that failure to consider juvenile's age in determining custody for Miranda
purposes clearly violated federal law); Stanford v. Kentucky, 492 U.S. 361, 380
(1989) (upholding death penalty for juveniles).





n349.  James A. Rapp, Ronald D. Stephens & Donna Clontz, The Need to Know:
Juvenile Record Sharing 4 (1989).





n350.  Franklin E. Zimring, Toward a Jurisprudence of Youth Violence, 24 Crime &
Just. 477, 483 (1998).





n351.  See James & James, supra note 10, at 179 ("When the idealized images of
childhood are shattered by the actions of children themselves, the protective
mantle of adult care that normally provides protection and nurture, as a
response to the special needs of children, is suddenly set aside.").





n352.  Zimring, supra note 350, at 483.





n353.  Allison James, Chris Jenks, & Alan Prout, Theorizing Childhood 13 (1998)
(tracing the roots of the archetype of the innocent child).





n354.  Scott & Steinberg, supra note 29, at 36.





n355.  Therefore, using innocence as the fulcrum for childhood ignores the
characteristics of adolescence and denies special protections to many youth.





n356.  Maroney, supra note 15, at 189.





n357.  See Scott, supra note 48, at 72 ("the Court has announced a broad
principle grounded in developmental knowledge that "children are different' from
adult offenders and that these differences are important to the law's response
to youthful criminal conduct"); see infra Part IV (explaining that the shift has
been driven in large part by empirical findings about juvenile development).





n358.  Juvenile Arrest Rate Trends, Office of Juvenile Justice & Delinq.
Prevention, U.S. Dep't of Justice,
http://www.ojjdp.gov/ojstatbb/crime/JAR_Display.asp?ID=qa05201 (last visited
Dec. 18, 2015) (briefing national violent crime rates amongst juveniles declined
substantially from the peak in 1994 to historic lows in 2012).





n359.  See Scott, supra note 48, at 72 ("the Court has announced a broad
principle grounded in developmental knowledge that "children are different' from
adult offenders and that these differences are important to the law's response
to youthful criminal conduct").





n360.  See, e.g., Roper v. Simmons, 543 U.S. 551 (2005).





n361.  Most of research discussed here goes to perceptions of Black youth. This
is, in large part, due to the peculiar legacy of slavery in the United States.
See Michelle Alexander, The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of
Colorblindness (2010). Still, research is finding similar effects with regard to
Latino youth.





n362. " The stereotype of Black Americans as violent and criminal has been
documented by social psychologists for almost 60 years." Jennifer L. Eberhardt,
et al., Seeing Black: Race, Crime, And Visual Processing, 87 J. Personality &.
Soc. Psychol. 876, 876 (2004) (showing that the associations between blackness
and crime is bidirectional, from black to crime and crime to black); Dorothy E.
Roberts, Foreword, Race, Vagueness, and the Social Meaning of Order-Maintenance
Policing, 89 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 775 (1999).





n363.  See Feld, supra note 237 ("At every stage - arrest, intake, referral,
petition, detention, trial, and disposition - youths of color fare less well
than do their white counterparts ..."); Bishop & Leiber, supra note 237 .





n364.  Nat'l Council on Crime & Delinq., supra note 237, at 1-3.





n365.  See id.





n366.  Phillip Atiba Goff et al., The Essence of Innocence: Consequences of
Dehumanizing Black Children, 106 J. Personality & Soc. Psychol. 526 (2014).





n367.  Id. at 532.





n368.  Id. at 540. This correlates with similar research in the school context
which found that Black students were more likely to be suspended than Whites,
even for the same behavior. Kupchik, supra note 112; Nance, supra note 112.





n369.  Aneeta Rattan et al., Race and the Fragility of the Legal Distinction
between Juveniles and Adults, 7 PLoS ONE 1 (2012).





n370.  Id. at 2.





n371.  Id.





n372.  See Kupchik, supra note 112, at 97 ("Black youth are singled out for
punishment because they are perceived to be more threatening, more loud and
disruptive, their style of dress and manners of speaking viewed as "thug-like',
and they are seen as more disrespectful than others to teachers.") (collecting
citations); Ferguson, supra note 263.





n373.  Ferguson, supra note 263.





n374.  Id. at 80.





n375.  Id. at 89; Anne Gregory & Rhona S. Weinstein, The Discipline Gap and
African Americans: Defiance or Cooperation in the High School Classroom, 46 J.
Sch. Psychol. 455, 455 (2008) (arguing teachers perceived African American
students as more defiant, disrespectful, and rule-breaking than other groups).





n376.  Ferguson, supra note 263, at 83.





n377.  Id. at 90 (including carefully preserved data files as proof of
wrongdoing).





n378.  Rattan et al., supra note 369, at 4 ("Juvenile status may be more fragile
than previously considered.").





n379.  See supra Part III.





n380.  Maroney, supra note 15, at 211.





n381.  Edward R. Spalty, Juvenile Police Record-Keeping, 4 Colum. Hum. Rts. L.
Rev. 461, 461 n.6 (1972) ("It seems both fairer and easier to control access to
the youth's record by controlling the formation of the record.").





n382.  Coffee, supra note 62, at 612.





n383.  That is not to say that they do not look out for the welfare of young
people. They most certainly do. But their primary job is to detect and prevent
crime, and to catch offenders.





n384.  Anyone who has listened to the NPR podcast Serial will surely understand
how seemingly stray pieces of information (was there a phone booth in a Maryland
Best Buy parking lot in 1998?) can become key pieces of evidence in a criminal
matter. Serial, Chicago Pub. Media & Ira Glass, http://serialpodcast.org/ (last
visited Dec. 18, 2015).





n385.  See generally Ellen Nakashima, NSA Chief Defends Collecting Americans'
Data, Wash. Post (Sept. 25, 2013),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-chief-defends-collecti
ng-americans-data/2013/09/25/5db2583c-25f1-11e3-b75d-5b7f66349852_story.html
(describing the NSA's warrantless collection of domestic e-mails and phone call
content and the separate bulk metadata collection program exposed in 2013).





n386.  U.S. Const. amend. IV ("The right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable
cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place
to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized."); U.S. Const. amend. V
(No person "shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself.").





n387.  Alaska Stat. § 47.12.210 (2013); N.J. Stat. Ann. § 2A:4A-61 (West 2014)
(limiting juvenile fingerprinting to those age fourteen and above if charged,
unless a juvenile consents, is detained, or is adjudicated delinquent of an act
which, if committed by an adult, would constitute a crime); Ohio Rev. Code Ann.
§ 109.60 (West 2014) (mandating fingerprints from adults arrested for felonies
and certain misdemeanors but only mandating fingerprints from juveniles for
felonies or an offense of violence).





n388.  See Pittman & Nguyen, supra note 208 ("States that fail to comply with
the Federal SORNA in a timely manner will forfeit 10% of their Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Omnibus Crime federal funding."); Halbrook, supra
note 225, at 55 (those that are not compliant forgo federal funding); SORNA,
SMART, Office of Just. Programs, http://ojp.gov/smart/sorna.htm (last visited
Dec. 18, 2015) (states refusing to comply include Arizona, Arkansas, California,
Nebraska, and Texas).





n389.  Donna Lyons, Sex Offender Law: Down to the Wire, Nat'l Conf. of St.
Legislatures (June 2011),
http://www.ncsl.org/research/civil-and-criminal-justice/sex-offender-law-down-to
-the-wire.aspx; U.S. Gov't Accountability Office, Sex Offender Registration and
Notification Act: Jurisdictions Face Challenges to Implementing the Act, and
Stakeholders Report Positive and Negative Effects 10 (2013). In 2010, the
mandatory community notification requirements were also removed from the SORNA
Guidelines in response to juvenile advocates' arguments. Supplemental Guidelines
for Sex Offender Registration and Notification, 75 Fed. Reg. 27,362, 27,363 (May
14, 2010) (codified in scattered sections of 42 U.S.C.). The final guidelines
allow states to withhold information about juveniles from the public registry
and still be considered to be in substantial compliance. Supplemental Guidelines
for Sex Offender Registration and Notification, 76 Fed. Reg. 1630 (Jan. 11,
2011) (permitting states to withhold information including e-mail addresses and
other Internet identifiers); see 42 U.S.C. § 16915(a) (2008). States therefore
have the discretion to disseminate juveniles' information publicly, but are not
required to do so. Halbrook, supra note 225, at 24-25.





n390.  Letter from Risa S. Sugarman, Deputy Comm'r, Office of Sex Offender
Mgmt., to Linda Baldwin, Dir., SMART Office, Office of Justice Programs, U.S.
Dep't of Justice (Aug. 23, 2011).





n391.  Wash. Rev. Code Ann. § 9.94A.540 (West 2013).





n392.  In re J.B., 107 A.3d 1, 19 (Pa. 2014) (finding lifetime registration for
juvenile sex offenders unconstitutional); see also In re C.P., 967 N.E.2d 729,
746 (Ohio 2012); People v. Dipiazza, 778 N.W.2d 264, 274 (Mich. Ct. App. 2009)
(holding ten year juvenile sex offender registration requirement cruel and
unusual punishment as applied to a Romeo and Juliet case).





n393.  Eric Holder, Att'y Gen., Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the American
Bar Association's House of Delegates (Aug. 13, 2013).





n394.  Am. Acad. of Pediatrics, Out-of-School Suspension and Expulsion (2013);
Am. Psychol. Ass'n, Are Zero Tolerance Policies Effective in the Schools?: An
Evidentiary Review and Recommendations (2008).





n395.  Jacob Kang-Brown et al., A Generation Later: What We've Learned About
Zero Tolerance in Schools 6 (2013).





n396.  Complaint, United States v. City of Meridian, 4:12-CV168-HTW-LRA (S.D.
Miss. filed Oct. 24, 2012).





n397.  Proposed Settlement Agreement at 4, United States v. City of Meridian,
3:13-CV-978-HTW-LRA (S.D. Miss. filed June 19, 2015).





n398.  See Juan A. Lozano, Hundreds of DNA Matches as Houston Clears DNA
Backlog, Assoc. Press, Feb. 23, 2015.





n399.  Mulvey et al., supra note 58, at 475 (tracking over one thousand male
adolescent offenders over the course of three years and finding that only 8.7%
of participants were "persisters" in that their offending remained constant
throughout the thirty-six-month period); Piquero, Farrington & Blumstein, supra
note 35 (between five percent and ten percent of adolescent offenders become
adult career criminals); Steinberg & Scott, supra note 57, at 1015 ("The typical
delinquent youth does not grow up to become an adult criminal.").





n400.  Levick et al., supra note 59, at 297.





n401.  Coffee, supra note 62, at 617.





n402.  Inst. of Judicial Admin., supra note 281.





n403.  Id. at 35 (providing an exception "if the chief law enforcement officer
of the agency ... certifies in writing that certain information is needed for a
pending investigation involving the commission of a felony, that information,
and information identifying the juvenile, may be retained in an intelligence
file until the investigation is terminated or for one additional year, whichever
is sooner").





n404.  Id. at 152.





n405.  Id. at 150.





n406.  H.R. 1651, 63d Leg., Reg. Sess. (Wash. 2014).





n407.  Press Release, Columbia Legal Servs., Youth Opportunities Act Opens Doors
to Thousands of Young Adults Across Washington State (Apr. 4, 2014).





n408.  S. 2567, 113th Cong. (2014).





n409.  Comm. of Ministers, Council of Europe, Commentary to the European Rules
for Juvenile Offenders Subject to Sanctions or Measures (2008).





n410.  Moffitt, supra note 36, at 675 ("The rates for both the prevalence and
incidence of offending appear highest during adolescence; they peak sharply at
about age 17 and drop precipitously in young adulthood ... By the early 20s, the
number of active offenders decreases by over 50%, and by age 28, almost 85% of
former delinquents desist from offending.").





n411.  Alfred Blumstein & Kiminori Nakamura, Redemption in the Presence of
Widespread Criminal Background Checks, 47 Criminology 327 (2009).





n412.  Id.; see also Kevin Lapp, Reforming the Good Moral Character Requirement
for U.S. Citizenship, 87 Ind. L.J. 1571, 1627-28 (2012) (collecting studies).





n413.  But note the thorny Internet problem, where information, once it gets
there, stays even if official records are sealed or destroyed.





n414.  Juvenile Law Ctr., supra note 136.





n415.  N.Y. Fam. Law § 354.1(7) (McKinney 2014).





n416.  See Taylor-Thompson, supra note 75.





n417.  Jacobs, supra note 82, at 163.





n418.  Jacobs, supra note 2, at 307.





n419.  See supra Part III.A.3.





n420.  See supra Part III.A.3.





n421.  See, e.g., N.Y. State Office of the Att'y Gen., A Report on Arrests
Arising from the New York City Police Department's Stop-and-Frisk Practices 8
(Nov. 2013) (finding that close to half of all stop-and-frisk arrests from 2009
to 2012 did not result in conviction).





n422.  In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358, 363 (1970).





n423.  States have the discretion to disseminate juveniles' information
publicly, but are not required to do so. Halbrook, supra note 225, at 56. SORNA
guidelines allow states to withhold information about juveniles from the public
registry and still be considered to be in substantial compliance. Supplemental
Guidelines for Sex Offender Registration and Notification, 76 Fed. Reg. 1630
(Jan. 11, 2011) (permitting states to withhold information including e-mail
addresses and other Internet identifiers); see 42 U.S.C. § 16915(a) (2008).





n424.  Nat'l Emp't Law Project, Ban the Box: U.S. Cities, Counties, and States
Adopt Fair Hiring Policies to Reduce Unfair Barriers to Employment of People
with Criminal Records (2014).





n425.  Ctr. for Cmty. Alts., supra note 315.





n426.  Justice Policy Inst., Education Under Arrest: The Case Against Police in
Schools 29 (2011).


                               4 of 13 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2015 The Regents of the University of
                                   California
                                UCLA Law Review

                                   May, 2015

                                UCLA Law Review

                              62 UCLA L. Rev. 834

LENGTH: 28289 words

ARTICLE: National Security's Broken Windows

NAME: Amna Akbar

HIGHLIGHT:

   abstract


   This Article examines the federal government's community engagement efforts
with American Muslim communities as part of a larger infrastructure for policing
radicalization and countering violent extremism (CVE). While the federal
government presents community engagement as a softer alternative to policing,
community engagement is integrated into a larger policing apparatus, making the
reality far more coercive. Community engagement efforts are staged within the
greater context of radicalization discourse, counterradicalization and CVE
programs. Radicalization theory posits that increased religiosity and
politicization in Muslims provokes an increased threat of terrorism. Government
counterradicalization programs aim, therefore, to monitor and influence the
political and religious cultures of Muslim communities so as to prevent
radicalization, bringing tremendous scrutiny to bear on these communities.

   The federal government situates its national security community engagement
efforts within the history of community policing in the ordinary criminal
context. Community engagement and community policing are celebrated as forms of
policing that emphasize communication and collaboration with marginalized
communities and serve ideals of inclusion and democratic participation. In both
contexts, however, efforts at police-community communication and collaboration
are warped by law enforcement's commitments to preventive theories of crime
control, narrowing the space for the inclusion of and democratic contestation by
the subject communities. Broken windows theory and radicalization theory invest
local social and cultural norms an outsized role in the origination of criminal
activity, creating a rationale for the policing of everyday life. In linking
noncriminal activity to the potential for crime, both theories reinforce a
punitive lens through which police interact with communities, further
marginalizing communities on the grounds of their difference. In putting
community engagement in conversation with community policing, this Article's
central insight is as straightforward as it might be surprising: Community
engagement in the national security context shares some of the problems of
community policing in the ordinary criminal context.

   Community engagement efforts increase the presence of law enforcement in
already overpoliced communities, and exacerbate intracommunity inequalities.
Rather than enhance participation, community engagement may simply provide
opportunities for select members of Muslim communities to approve preexisting
law enforcement commitments - and create an additional source of pressure on
Muslim communities to perform their Americanness - without meaningful openings
for Muslim communities to communicate, collaborate, and contest the
relationship, its modalities, and its outputs.


   About the Author

   Amna Akbar is an Assistant Professor of Law at Michael E. Moritz College of
Law, the Ohio State University. For generous engagement, thanks to Alan
Michaels, Anil Kalhan, Aziz Huq, Bernard Harcourt, Dave Owen, David Alan
Sklansky, Debby Merritt, Devon Carbado, Don Herzog, Garry Jenkins, James Forman,
Jr., Jeanne Theoharis, Jenny Roberts, Jocelyn Simonson, Joshua Dressler, Marc
Spindelman, Margo Schlanger, Martha Chamallas, Matthew Charity, Meg
Satterthwaite, Nada Moumtaz, Parijat Desai, Robin Walker Sterling, Shirin
Sinnar, Sophie Hagen, Tracey Meares, Wendy Bach, the Faculty Workshop at
American University Washington College of Law, the Moritz Junior Faculty
Workshop, the UCLA Advanced Critical Race Theory Workshop, the 2015 Criminal
Justice Roundtable at Yale Law School, the policing practices panel at Law and
Society 2013 in Boston, and the works-in-progress session on immigration/law
enforcement at the 2013 AALS Clinical Conference in Puerto Rico. Special
gratitude to Jonathan Olivito and Kori Leigh Brady, who provided inspired
research assistance, to Stephanie Ziegler and Kaylie Vermillion, who marshaled
library resources with speed and grace, and to the superb staff at the UCLA Law
Review. This Article was supported by funding from the Michael E. Moritz College
of Law, the Ohio State University, and the Center for Interdisciplinary Law and
Policy Studies. The standard caveat applies: mistakes are mine alone.


 TEXT:
 [*837]

   Introduction

 In California's Bay Area, from 2004 to 2008 and likely after that, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) undertook a mosque outreach project n1 under the
auspices of community outreach and engagement. n2 FBI agents met with
representatives of area mosques on multiple occasions n3 and openly attended
religious sermons. n4 In speaking with congregants, the FBI courted complaints
about hate crimes n5 and listened to expressions of anxiety about a federal
investigation of imams in nearby Lodi. n6 On one occasion, when a congregant at
a particular mosque "expressed an interest in continuing a dialogue with the FBI
and agreed  [*838]  to schedule an outreach meeting with the entire Mosque," the
FBI "offered to come and speak to the [whole] congregation." n7 FBI records
indicate that "all topics from [the] USA Patriot Act to local street gangs were
open for discussion." n8

   This Bay Area example illustrates what many want from law enforcement:
efforts at improving communication and collaboration with communities typically
on the wrong side of the gun. On the surface, it appears the FBI is working to
build open lines of communication with Muslim communities, to learn about
community concerns, and to provide reassurance that law enforcement is committed
to equal protection for all communities. Indeed, the federal government anchors
its community engagement with Muslim communities in a broader history and
language: that of community policing with marginalized groups in the ordinary
criminal context, n9 calling on principles of communication, collaboration, and
trust building. n10

   On closer inspection, however, these seemingly supportive practices reveal a
more difficult reality. The same redacted FBI documents that memorialize these
FBI meet-and-greet efforts are marked as "positive intelligence," and
"disseminated outside FBI," indicating that the information was instrumentalized
as surveillance. n11 The records detail the FBI's broad collection of
information: the topic of a particular sermon is noted, n12 along with names and
phone numbers of the people with whom the FBI spoke, n13 the relationship
between an Islamic school and its parent organization, n14 the logistics of a
community's recent move to a new mosque, n15 and congregants' political
opinions. n16 Back at the field office,  [*839]  FBI agents sometimes gathered
further information on those with whom they had met. n17 In effect, then, the
FBI's outreach aimed in significant part to collect intelligence on local Muslim
communities and community institutions, intelligence that could then be
leveraged to achieve other ends. n18 This complicated reality - that community
policing brings new law enforcement scrutiny to an already marginalized
community - also hearkens back to community policing in the ordinary criminal
context. n19

   The events in the Bay Area represent just one instance of federal community
engagement with Muslim communities. n20 While law enforcement initiatives aimed
at Muslim communities existed before 9/11, these efforts were few and far
[*840]  between. The years following the attack on the World Trade Center saw a
push by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the FBI to engage Muslim, Arab, and
South Asian (MASA) communities, n21 with the FBI conducting more than 500
meetings with more than 600 organizations and mosques nationwide, and DOJ's
Community Relations Service (CRS) conducting more than 250 forums across the
country. n22 The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) eventually entered the
fray, supporting community outreach through its Office for Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties (CRCL). n23 More recently, with the rise of the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria (ISIS), the federal government has pushed anew for community
engagement as a tool to prevent American Muslims from traveling abroad to join
ISIS. n24

   This Article focuses on federal law enforcement community engagement efforts
with American Muslim communities. In government accounts and the popular
imagination, community engagement efforts are soft, preventative, collaborative
policing efforts, drawing on the history and gravity of community policing in
the ordinary criminal context - measures meant to be celebrated  [*841]  across
the political spectrum. n25 This Article attempts to reveal the mechanics of a
more coercive reality. n26

   To understand the harms of community engagement approaches, it is essential
to appreciate the larger context of law enforcement scrutiny in which they
occur. The Article provides three larger frameworks in which community
engagement must be understood.

   First, law enforcement community engagement efforts are properly understood
within the larger context of the rise of radicalization theories, and  [*842]
counterradicalization and countering violent extremism (CVE) programs. n27
Radicalization theory posits that increased religiosity and politicization among
Muslims provokes an increased threat of terrorism. Incorporating this framework,
government counterradicalization and CVE programs aim to monitor and influence
the political and religious cultures of Muslim communities so as to prevent
radicalization and violent extremism. This approach brings tremendous government
scrutiny to bear on the religious and political beliefs and activities of
American Muslim communities. n28 The overlay with counterradicalization and CVE
is also what sets community outreach with Muslim communities apart from outreach
with other communities.

   Second, community engagement is, in practice and effect, closely intertwined
with other policing methods and functions. n29 Unlike other types of national
security policing - such as mapping, voluntary or pretextual interviews,
recruitment and deployment of informants, and Internet monitoring - community
engagement draws its legitimacy from community policing's ideas of inclusion and
democratic participation. But law enforcement deploys community engagement as
one among several of its national security policing tools, creating tension
between trust-building, intelligence-collection, and counter-radicalization
efforts, and raising questions about the quality of inclusion and democratic
participants these programs facilitate. n30

   Third, community engagement with American Muslim communities must be
understood in conversation with community policing in the ordinary criminal
[*843]  context - and more specifically with the earlier debates on community
policing inflected by broken windows theory. In both contexts, advocates
celebrate communication and collaboration as ways to foster inclusion and civic
engagement in marginalized communities on the one hand, and to reduce crime and
increase order on the other. So, as with community policing, community
engagement initiatives emphasize the idea that law enforcement must build trust
and create greater channels of communication with American Muslims. To this end,
law enforcement representatives reach out to Muslim communities, attend
community events, host career fairs, and so on. In the same way that community
policing in the 1980s and 1990s relied on partnerships with African American
churches and youth in poor neighborhoods, the federal government's current
community engagement programs focus on mosques, community institutions, and
youth in Muslim communities.

   The realities are more top-down than grassroots. In both contexts, aggressive
theories of crime control - broken windows theory in the context of ordinary
crime, counterradicalization in the context of national security - are overlaid
atop ambiguous commitments to community partnerships, narrowing the space for
open communication and contestation by the subject communities. In preserving
law and order, police occupy an important role in the balance between a
democratic and a coercive state, with community policing painted as a more
democratic tactic. Community policing and community engagement trade on the
moral authority of community partnerships by invoking ideas about popular
participation in government and localized democracy. n31 But critics have
challenged the normative and empirical bases for community policing and tactics
influenced by broken windows theory, calling for a critical assessment of the
costs of order and how police work with marginalized communities in these
efforts. The concern, in essence, is that community policing allows the police
to expand their power and reach into already marginalized communities, without
giving subject communities the opportunity to meaningfully influence or
determine policing priorities or strategies.

   A central insight of this Article is as straightforward as it might be
surprising: Community engagement in the national security context shares some of
the problems of community policing in the ordinary criminal context. As with the
criticisms lodged against broken-windows-styled community policing,
counterradicalization-fueled policing serves to further marginalize an already
marginalized  [*844]  community on the grounds of its difference. Moreover, as
with community policing, community engagement efforts increase the presence of
law enforcement in already overpoliced communities, and exacerbate
intracommunity inequalities.

   The Article proceeds in three parts, engaging both the theoretical frameworks
and the practices of community engagement. n32 Part I reveals the links between
the burgeoning enterprise of federal community engagement efforts and the larger
context of national security policing tactics, and the roots of such efforts in
a commitment to radicalization theories and counterradicalization programs. n33

   In the post-9/11 era, DOJ and DHS have become the primary federal law
enforcement agencies responsible for engaging Muslim communities. DOJ and DHS
undertake various outreach efforts, from meet-and-greet events at local mosques,
to regional roundtables with community leaders. While these efforts reflect a
commitment to communication and collaboration, Part I investigates their
concurrent goals in tandem with other policing methods to collect information on
and shape the religious and cultural mores of Muslim communities.

   Part II takes a deeper dive into the work of radicalization,
counterradicaliza-tion, and CVE in community engagement efforts. To understand
the limitations of community engagement refracted through radicalization, Part
II draws on earlier literature debating community policing inflected by broken
windows theory. Community policing theory aims to reorder relations between the
marginalized and the police through community and collaboration, but community
policing programs often fail to fulfill this goal when they rely on preventative
theories of crime control. Broken windows theory posits a correlation between
the aesthetics of disorder and crime, calling police into the service of
countering disorder as a way to keep more serious crime at bay. In the ordinary
criminal context, broken windows theory is used to shape and justify forms of
community policing, while counterradicalization is the scaffold in the national
security context.

   Broken windows and counterradicalization bring government visions of crime
control to bear on police-community partnerships and grant local social and
cultural norms an outsized role in the origination of criminal activity. These
assumptions create a rationale for law enforcement to police and surveil the
minutiae of everyday life in marginalized communities. In linking noncriminal
activity to the potential for crime, both theories reinforce a punitive lens
through which police interact with marginalized communities. In turn,  [*845]
policing motivated by theories of radicalization serve to racialize Muslim
identities, ideologies, and geographies in significant ways.

   Policing is a central practice of American racialization and racial formation
- whether and how one is policed form an integral part of one's experience of
race in the United States. The emergence and routinization of heightened
scrutiny by police on Muslim communities has become an important axis of Muslim
racialization post-9/11. n34 Part II explores how radicalization and
counterradicalization policing serve to radicalize American Muslims.

   Part III moves to the material implications of community engagement.
Community engagement efforts constitute one of many entry points for federal law
enforcement into Muslim communities today. But unlike other types of
radicalization policing, community engagement efforts draw their legitimacy from
ideas of inclusion and democratic participation. Most acutely, my concern is
that community engagement turns on itself by providing police with greater power
and discretion over marginalized communities. Rather than enhance participation,
community engagement may simply provide opportunities for select members of
Muslim communities to approve preexisting law enforcement commitments - and
create an additional source of pressure on Muslim communities to perform their
Americanness - without meaningful openings for Muslim communities to
communicate, collaborate, and contest the relationship, its modalities, and its
outputs. The coercive effect of these practices has been underexplored, even as
their success at increasing democracy and inclusion is taken for granted. While
it is beyond the scope of this Article to engage the premise that cultivating
pro-law-enforcement attitudes is necessary for democracy, the Article does raise
questions about how the government should cultivate these attitudes, and how
cultivating such attitudes may clash with the duty of people to hold their
governments accountable.

   By putting the mirror of the community policing literature to community
engagement - more specifically, by placing the literature from the 1980s and
1990s on community policing with African American communities alongside
community engagement with Muslim communities - the Article engages the way that
police practices are discursive, experimental, and derivative. My aim is to
contribute to the larger discourse on the relationship between policing,
racialization, and inequality in the United States, and to understand the
continuities and distinctions between contexts. On the one hand, positioning
these practices side by side is descriptive, in that it reflects the federal
government's situating of  [*846]  community engagement efforts within a history
of community policing efforts with marginalized communities. On the other hand,
the cross-pollination is normative, in that it reflects my effort to deconstruct
the sharp distinctions often drawn between the ordinary criminal and national
security contexts. (National security scholars can learn from longstanding
conversations in criminal law, especially regarding criminal justice techniques
retooled for the national security context.) My hope is that this Article will
contribute to our thinking about the role of police in comparative racialization
- that in thinking about community policing and community engagement in the same
breath, we will see new possibilities and problems in the way that police relate
to communities of color and thereby construct and constitute the experience of
race in the United States, including for American Muslims. n35

   I do not mean to draw overly neat parallels or to manufacture ghost
genealogies between the two sets of theoretical frameworks or practices. Nor
does this Article comprehensively survey historical or contemporary practices of
community policing or community engagement. My concrete focus is the
contemporary national security context in the United States, and I am working
with the limited material - much of it produced through government accounts -
available on these initiatives. This Article provides a sketch of the problems
inherent in approaching community engagement through a counterradicalization and
CVE lens. Particularized case studies are left for future work.

   The idea of community engagement may capture our imaginations now as
community policing did in the 1980s and 1990s. Then, as now, however, it should
not capture our intellects: The theories and practices of community engagement
demand our close and critical attention.

[*847]

   I. A Taxonomy of National Security Community Policing

   A. The Schematic of Policing Radicalization

 The accounts of post-9/11 national security policing emphasize the federal
government's new commitments to a preventative framework for fighting terrorism
and to comprehensive intelligence gathering. n36 Although this narrative
obscures the existence of preventive approaches and intelligence gathering
before 9/11, it embodies important kernels of truth: The overt merger of
prevention, intelligence gathering, national security, and criminal power has
changed the nature of contemporary policing in the United States. Less commented
on is the shift from emergency policing measures n37 to the routinization of
national security policing. Unquestionably, important continuity exists between
the emergency response and the routinized police practices - not simply because
many of the practices are similar, but because they borrow their legitimacy from
the same discursive universe, in which the 9/11 attack is a fundamental moment
of authority. n38

   Theories of radicalization, counterradicalization, and CVE, have been
important engines in the movement of national security policing from the realm
of emergency to the realm of routine. n39 Radicalization theory - which also
grounds ideas about violent extremism - was exported from the British government
to the  [*848]  U.S. government through DOJ and the New York Police Department
(NYPD). The theory posits a correlation between religiosity and politicization
in Muslims and the potential for terrorism. When the government embraces
radicalization theories, it provides a new imperative to surveil and shape
religious and political activities of Muslim individuals and within Muslim
communities. That same embrace has also spawned a growing number of
counterradicalization and CVE initiatives - of which law enforcement and
community engagement efforts are an increasingly important part. n40

   Law enforcement's embrace of radicalization and counterradicalization has
become a central tenet in our domestic approach to national security. A 2006 FBI
report and 2007 NYPD report constitute the building blocks of this evolution.
n41 Since the publication of these reports, both entirely focused on Muslims,
n42 U.S. federal and local government literature has taken for granted that a
problem of Muslim radicalization exists in - plagues, even - the United States.

   The FBI's Intelligence Assessment, The Radicalization Process: From
Conversion to Jihad, asserts the existence of an identifiable and predictable
process by which a Muslim becomes a terrorist. n43 The FBI identifies the four
stages of radicalization as "preradicalization," "identification,"
"indoctrination," and "action." n44  [*849]  The Assessment is vague about the
data on which it relies, with almost no citations, sourcing, or clear
methodology.

   The NYPD's report, Radicalization in the West: The Homegrown Threat, posits a
similar four-stage process: "pre-radicalization," "self-identification,"
"indoctrination," and "jihadization." n45 Each stage has "specific signatures
associated with it." n46 The first three stages of radicalization focus on where
Muslims live and congregate, manifestations of their religious and political
beliefs, and political, social, or religious activities. n47 The process
culminates in the final stage, jihadization, when intent to commit a criminal
act first forms. n48

   Despite deep contestation of this theory, n49 some ideas about radicalization
have become mainstays of U.S. law enforcement's preventive approach to national
security. These ideas include the following: First, radicalization is a somewhat
predictable process with visible markers and geographies by which Muslims become
willing and able to commit violence against the United States (or American
interests) in the name of Islam or the global Muslim community. n50 Second, the
government, as part of its investment in national security, must monitor and
counter radicalization. Third, radicalization emerges from religious and
political currents within Muslim communities. n51

   Radicalization and counterradicalization have become the language of
prevention in national security criminal law. With the federal government at the
helm, this commitment is echoed far and wide, from state and local police to
[*850]  DHS, DOJ, FBI, and U.S. Attorneys' Offices. n52 As a result, federal law
enforcement, with the aid of state and local police, spend considerable
resources monitoring and shaping political and religious cultures in Muslim
communities.

   The federal government has undertaken numerous initiatives to counter
radicalization and violent extremism - almost entirely focused on Muslims,
despite assurances to the contrary. n53 The House and Senate Homeland Security
Committees, for example, have held hearings and issued reports emphasizing the
need for government agencies to monitor and respond to radicalization. n54 The
White House issued two national security strategy papers in 2010 and 2011,
emphasizing the need to counter violent extremism and radicalization, n55 and
two blueprints for "empowering local partners to prevent violent extremism in
the United States." n56 DHS, the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC), FBI,
the National Security Agency (NSA) and DOJ have also prioritized
counterradicalization and CVE programming and research. n57 Most recently, the
attorney general has announced a pilot program to respond to the lure of ISIS
for American Muslims, the White  [*851]  House held a three-day CVE summit, and
the DHS secretary has been touring mosques around the country. n58

   Community engagement represents but one of a range of policing techniques
deployed in counterradicalization efforts. The specific techniques essential to
policing radicalization include mapping, voluntary or pretextual interviews,
recruitment and deployment of informants, Internet monitoring, and community
engagement. n59 These tactics are aimed at gathering intelligence on, as well as
shaping, the religious and political currents in Muslim communities - the
geographies where Muslims gather and collective identities emerge. n60 The
tactics also attempt to identify individuals of concern by relying on
participation from Muslim community members and forms of coercion that vary from
mild to severe, including incentivized cooperation.

   The tactics of policing radicalization exist in symbiosis, all feeding into
each other. n61 Given the dynamic relationship between these techniques, a brief
summation is necessary in order to appreciate national security community
engagement in context.

   Mapping refers literally to the practice of generating maps that detail where
Muslims gather, whether in schools, mosques, or hookah bars. n62 The FBI's 2008
Domestic Intelligence and Operations Guide (DIOG) empowers FBI field offices to
collect, map, and analyze racial and ethnic demographic information, including
the location of businesses and other facilities servicing those demographic
groups. n63 Drawing on commercially available information  [*852]  and
government databases, FBI offices have mapped the demographics of concentrated
Muslim communities. n64 The FBI puts such maps to use in its community
engagement efforts. n65

   Voluntary or pretext interviews - known as knock and talks in the ordinary
criminal context - are a more visible method of policing radicalization. n66
Agents may approach individuals at mosques, home, work, or community
institutions. They may identify the agency for which they work, or may simply
cite a generic relationship with the U.S. government. In theory voluntary, the
mode of approach and questioning often involves substantial coercive force. n67
Individuals targeted are often "led to believe they [are] compulsory." n68 Law
enforcement officials regularly ask about religious and political opinions and
activities: the purpose of a recent trip to Pakistan or Saudi Arabia, for
example, or opinions on the Arab Spring or drone strikes in Pakistan. n69 These
interviews appear to be triggered by national origin and ethnicity as well as
travel and speech activity, including consumption of  [*853]  speech (for
example, watching lectures online or visiting particular websites). n70
Interviews are regularly geared toward collecting information on religious and
political opinions, whether individual or collective, n71 or cultivating
informants, both formal and informal. n72

   Informants are key to national security policing, just as they are in the
ordinary criminal context. Problems of police coercion, secrecy, and lack of
accountability persist in both contexts. n73 The NYPD, for example, recruits
informants for counterterrorism projects by scanning the general citywide arrest
rolls for individuals hailing from Muslim countries, regardless of the crime for
which they were arrested. n74

   Informants are widespread in Muslim communities, stationed within mosques,
Muslim student groups, social networks, and so on. n75 The approach is less
likely to be geared toward collecting information on a specific individual or
criminal plot, and more likely tilted toward gathering "as much information on
as many people in the Muslim community as possible." n76 Law enforcement uses
informants to gather and test opinions, in a practice reminiscent of past police
infiltration of radical political groups such as the Communist Party and various
Black liberation organizations. n77 Informants may serve as passive listeners,
n78 gathering information about individuals' religious and political views, or
vulnerabilities (such  [*854]  as immigration status, LGBT/queer identities, or
marital indiscretions) that can be used to pressure individuals into becoming
informants. n79 Informants also test impressionability, n80 attempting to
provoke reactions by making "radical" or "extreme" statements and then
monitoring people's responses and their susceptibility to radical or extreme
points of view. n81 Perhaps even more troubling, according to a  [*855]  recent
report by Human Rights Watch and Columbia Law School's Human Rights Institute,
all but four of the last decade's high-profile terrorism prosecutions resulted
from FBI sting operations, in which the FBI informant was directly involved in
proposing, crafting, facilitating, and inducing a terrorist plot. n82

   Law enforcement also monitors what Muslims consume and post on the Internet
about their opinions and activities via email listservs, blogs, websites,
chatrooms, and social media. n83 These efforts seem to focus on those who
download content by particular Muslim scholars such as Anwar Al-Aulaqi, post on
Muslim-identified news websites or participate in Muslim-identified chat /
discussion forums focused on religious discourse and U.S. foreign policy, or
watch "jihadi" videos. n84 Internet monitoring triggers voluntary interviews as
well as informants and undercover law enforcement "urging [young men] down the
perceived path toward radicalization." n85

    [*856]  Post-9/11 changes to the FBI's investigative guidelines allow for
broad, minimally regulated use of these tactics. No suspicion of criminal
wrongdoing is required before an ordinary agent can deploy these investigative
powers. n86 The FBI can use unlimited physical surveillance, conduct pretextual
interviews, and deploy confidential informants, absent any suspicion of
wrongdoing or "particular factual predication." n87 Moreover, these tools can be
mobilized based mostly on First Amendment activity - for example, on attendance
at a particular mosque, or harsh criticism of American foreign policy. n88 Nor
are these techniques meaningfully regulated by the Constitution: The techniques
do not require a warrant. Moreover, the Fourth Amendment's protections against
unreasonable search and seizures can be waived if law enforcement obtains
consent, a concept construed loosely and without regard to the particular
mechanics of coercion in interactions between police and marginalized
communities. n89

   B. The Particulars of Community Engagement

 Countering violent extremism has been called a signature policy of the Obama
administration's national security agenda. n90 In 2011, the White House
announced its commitment to community engagement as a "whole-of-government
approach" to responding to the threat of radicalization and violent extremism,
n91  [*857]  and then issued a "strategic implementation plan" for its strategy.
n92 In so doing, the White House put its weight behind government-community
engagement as a national security, CVE, and counterradicalization strategy. n93

   1. The Players

 The Obama administration's community engagement plan leans heavily on law
enforcement. Around the country, with DOJ and DHS at the helm, federal, state,
and local police departments put significant resources toward community
engagement programs with Muslim communities. n94 Echoing the imagined role of
communities in community policing efforts in the ordinary criminal context,
community engagement initiatives are premised on the idea that Muslim
communities can serve as key partners in counterterrorism work. n95 Community
engagement depends on some form of buy-in from, and contacts in, Muslim
communities. n96 Cultivating these contacts is an important  [*858]  aspect of
these initiatives. FBI field offices, for example, aim to "identify and develop
relationships with community leaders and other individuals who have influence in
their communities and may be helpful conduits of information for the
communities." n97 In turn "these leaders make up a network of contacts the field
office can reach quickly in the event there is a threat ... [or] when the FBI
needs public assistance to support an ongoing investigation, to address concerns
about FBI activities reported in the news media." n98

   While it's unclear how precisely partners are selected, community partners in
these efforts include religious and civic organizations. n99 Partners have
included major American Muslim civil rights organizations, mosques, community
and  [*859]  religious leaders, scholars, and elders. n100 Individuals who
participate in one community engagement initiative - such as a citizen-training
initiative - often participate in other community engagement efforts. n101

   DOJ engages in extensive community engagement efforts through many of its
offices and divisions. DOJ's community engagement efforts have included its
Community Relations Service (CRS), Civil Rights Division, U.S. Attorneys'
offices, and Office of Justice Programs. n102 The FBI undertakes its own efforts
through its Community Outreach Program. n103 Each of the fifty-six FBI field
offices has a community outreach program coordinated by a professional community
outreach specialist or a special agent community outreach coordinator. n104
Around the country, U.S. Attorneys have met with Muslim  [*860]  community
leaders. n105 DHS primarily runs its engagement efforts through CRCL. n106 Many
of these efforts constitute interagency or intergovernmental efforts. n107

    [*861]  Outreach efforts also take place at the state and local level, n108
though these efforts are mostly derivative of federal efforts. n109 DOJ and DHS
fund and encourage local police departments to initiate outreach with Muslim
communities, or to refashion preexisting outreach through a
counterradicalization framework. n110 Local initiatives often come out of
immigrant outreach efforts: For example, in St. Paul, Minneapolis, the police
department's Muslim/Somali  [*862]  outreach was known as the African Immigrant
Muslim Coordinated Outreach Program (AIMCOP). n111 DOJ provided the police
department with a $ 670,000 grant to reframe the preexisting effort to focus on
counterradicalization. n112

   2. The Mechanisms

 Within the broader framework of community engagement, federal, state, and local
law enforcement have stepped up efforts to establish channels of communication
with Muslim communities. While on the surface these efforts are necessarily less
secretive than other national security law enforcement efforts - indeed their
basic function is partly aesthetic - the concrete data on these efforts is
scattered and incomplete. n113 Government accounts are papered in promotional
language, and community accounts are few and far between. n114 Given limited
information on what these efforts entail, the parameters in which they function,
n115 the absence of a central repository for information, and  [*863]  the fast
pace of growth of such efforts, the descriptions below are necessarily limited.
n116

   As a counterradicalization and CVE tool, there are three primary ends at work
in community engagement: relationship and trust building, norms molding, and
intelligence gathering. Community engagement is unique in its emphasis on
relationship and trust building at the same time that it contributes to norms
molding and intelligence gathering.

   Meet-and-greet efforts. Meet-and-greet efforts increase the breadth of
contact between law enforcement and Muslim communities. These efforts include
events, meetings, town halls, conference calls, and mosque visits. After 9/11,
n117 DOJ CRS began arranging meetings across the country between law
enforcement, city officials, and MASA communities. n118 Since 9/11, CRS has held
more than 750 town halls and community meetings nationally. n119 FBI field
offices have conducted extensive outreach in person and through conference
calls. n120 The FBI has also held town halls around the country to "foster
dialogue" with Muslim communities. n121 FBI field offices regularly visit local
mosques and community centers, even requiring all new agents to meet with Muslim
community leaders and mosques. n122

    [*864]  In part, these efforts seek to identify potential individual
partners in Muslim communities. n123 In 2008, the DOJ created Specialized
Community Outreach Teams (SCOT) "comprised of special agents, analysts,
community outreach specialists, and personnel with language or other specialized
skills." n124 SCOT aimed to assist "field offices with establishing new contacts
in key communities" n125 and "strategically expand outreach to the Somali
community to address counterterrorism-related issues." n126 SCOT provided
intelligence gathering and investigative support to Field Intelligence Groups
and "operational programs throughout the FBI"; it also sent information to the
Behavioral Analysis Unit to "develop a baseline profile of Somali individuals
that are vulnerable to being radicalized or participating in extremist
activities." n127

   Advisory bodies and roundtables. The federal government also organizes
regular advisory bodies and roundtables with Muslim community leaders and
experts, with the hope of cultivating regular channels of communication. n128
Participants are likely to include "representatives of National organizations,
community leaders from key cities, and religious and cultural scholars." n129
These meetings are designed to allow community leaders to "learn about
significant Government policies" and "raise specific issues of concern." n130
The regular format involves senior government officials and, according to
government documents, "emphasizes accountability for answers." n131

   Since 2010, DHS CRCL has run roundtables with federal, state, and local
government officials and MASA communities around the country, about thirty
[*865]  times a year, and in eight regions with large MASA populations. n132 DHS
roundtables consider "the threat posed to those communities by terrorist
attempts to recruit their members" and "homeland security, civil rights, and
other" issues. n133 DOJ also runs a bimonthly national roundtable involving DHS
and MASA community members. n134 In 2009, Attorney General Eric Holder
established an Arab/Muslim Engagement Advisory group, which works in part to
improve DOJ's community engagement efforts. n135 Similarly, thirty-eight FBI
field offices have established Community Engagement Councils or Multi-Cultural
Advisory Councils. n136 State and local law enforcement also engage in such
efforts. n137

   Training and education. n138 Exchange of expertise is central to national
security community policing. Twin focal points of these efforts are training and
[*866]  education for Muslim communities on the functions of law enforcement and
on identifying and responding to radicalization. On law enforcement functions,
the FBI runs training academies, with a key constituency in MASA communities,
designed to teach the public about the FBI's work. n139

   Federal-law-enforcement-led radicalization and terrorism education occurs all
over the country. DHS CRCL, along with the NCTC Directorate for Strategic and
Operational Planning (DSOP), have conducted various trainings and briefings: The
Community Awareness Briefing is "designed to help communities  [*867]  and law
enforcement develop the necessary understanding of al-Qa'ida and al Qaida [sic]
inspired recruitment tactics" and "includes information relating to the foreign
fighter recruitment narrative"; and the Community Resilience Exercise is a
"half-day table-top exercise designed to improve communication ... to share
ideas on how best to build community resilience against violent extremism... .
[and to] empower[] communities to develop comprehensive violence prevention and
intervention models." n140 In Connecticut, DHS and NCTC officials held a
closed-door briefing with Pakistani American physicians on "what the community
needs to know" about "Radicalization and De-Radicalization Strategies." n141 The
FBI's Cincinnati field office, in partnership with local U.S. Attorneys offices
and the Columbus Division of Police, hosted a radicalization awareness program
for members of the local Somali community. n142

   Some of these initiatives are explicitly geared toward cultivating suspicions
of particular religious and political expressions. The New Jersey Office of
Homeland Security and Preparedness has established antiradicalization
initiatives including outreach to elders and imams of the state's largest
mosques. n143 More broadly, there is a tacit educative or acculturation function
in all outward facing community engagement efforts. n144 For example,
youth-focused initiatives often include language about the importance of good
citizenship to ward off radicalization. n145 Federal, state, and local programs
have  [*868]  included engagement through athletic leagues, YWCA programming,
resume-writing workshops, and self-defense lessons. n146

   *** Government officials tout these community engagement efforts as the
pinnacle of good governance, providing Muslim communities with opportunities to
educate and hold the government accountable, and providing the government with
the chance to learn from Muslim communities. n147 Indeed, community engagement
initiatives may seem preferable to, or at least less coercive than, other forms
of policing. One might argue that the overt nature of community engagement
efforts obviates any concern about coercion or consent. Communities of color -
overpoliced as they are - must know that their interactions with the police are
recorded and shared. (The FBI thinks otherwise: The recently released 2009 FBI
Policy Directive on community engagement asserts that "members of the public
contacted through a community outreach activity generally do not have an
expectation that information about them will be maintained in an FBI file or
database." n148) How can communities later complain that they are under watch,
even as they exchange pleasantries at a mosque outreach event with the local FBI
agent? This is to miss, however, a larger set of normative concerns about the
dialectic between the exercise of police power and the ways it restricts the
options available to communities of color. The remainder of this Article
attempts to unpack these concerns.

   II. Disorder and Racialization

 Community policing's elasticity has been integral to its currency and
longevity. An approach by local police in the 1970s and 1980s to working with
poor, urban Black communities in response to ordinary crime and historical
distrust  [*869]  has proved sufficiently flexible to be put to use in service
of the post-9/11 paradigm. Federal law enforcement has adopted
community-policing-like tactics nationwide with Muslim communities in response
to national security concerns, deploying the vocabulary and aspirations of
community policing. n149 While community engagement is regularly invoked in the
same breath, or included in the same conceptual universe, as community policing,
unnamed is the dynamic between counterradicalization/CVE and broken windows
theory. At first blush, there is an obvious parallelism: Counterradicalization
defines the contours of community engagement as broken windows often shaped
practices of community policing. Both counterradicalization and broken windows
theories are preventative theories of crime control laid atop efforts at
bettering relationships between marginalized communities and law enforcement.
n150 Both theories also motivate traditional policing tactics and approaches
beyond those that claim as their central normative force partnerships with the
community. Yet there are important theoretical and material distinctions between
broken windows and counterradicalization, and between community policing and
community engagement.

   In focusing on the critiques of community policing inflected by broken
windows theory, I do not mean to suggest that all community policing is defined
by broken windows theory, or that order maintenance (which is more directly
linked to broken windows, in theory as well as practice) follows from community
policing. n151 Community policing and broken windows theory can certainly be
[*870]  decoupled: n152 Community policing's center of gravity is in
communication and collaboration with local communities, while broken windows
theory centers police discretion to pursue disorder and minor crimes. n153 In
practice - and in particular in the 1980s and 1990s - the divide has proven more
illusory. n154 When community policing and broken windows theory have been
linked in practice and in study, the combination provides an important lens
through which to see the problems that emerge when a theory of crime control
that attaches predictive authority to social markers of difference shapes police
communication with marginalized communities. The literature examining community
policing shaped by broken windows theory provides insights on similar problems
that emerge when community engagement is shaped by counterradicalization.

    [*871]  This Part first provides background on the emergence of broken
windows theory and community policing in the ordinary criminal context, with its
focus on African American communities. Then it explains how
counterradicalization has come to racialize American Muslims, providing context
necessary to understand the coercive qualities of community engagement.

   A. Community Policing, Broken Windows, Ordinary Crime n155

 The basic intuition behind community policing is that increased communication
and collaboration between police and communities will benefit both parties and
cultivate a stronger ethos of civic engagement in marginalized communities -
those with less social power and socioeconomic standing. n156 The precise causal
mechanics of this process, however, are far from clear. n157 While the
literature takes as a starting point the poor relationships between law
enforcement and marginalized communities, it generally fails to meaningfully
engage the question of how community policing practices should account for the
power differential between police and those communities, instead assuming that
the communication will itself have a democracy-enhancing function. n158
Proponents advocate for more interaction and flexibility, but provide little
guidance on how to ensure that communication and police action is not
predetermined by the more powerful police prerogative. n159

    [*872]  Beyond its basic orientation toward communication, the theory and
practices of community policing are muddled. n160 Reading the literature, one
encounters an avalanche of terminology: preventive policing, n161
problem-oriented policing, neighborhood policing, hot spots policing,
third-party policing, order-maintenance policing, zero-tolerance policing,
quality-of-life policing, broken windows theory, social norms theory,
intelligence-led policing, and so on. n162 These concepts represent an evolving
spectrum of approaches to policing. n163 Often  [*873]  these concepts fill in
the vagaries of or complement one on another, but they also clash and confuse;
where one set of practices ends and the other begins is often unclear and
subject to debate. n164

   Broken windows theory defines much community policing in the context of
ordinary crime - one could even argue that it is a central spoke in contemporary
preventive policing concepts. For purposes of this Article, a basic account of
the theory's adaptation to policing should suffice.

   In 1969, in a famous psychology experiment, two cars were left in two very
different neighborhoods without license plates, and with hoods open: one in
wealthy Palo Alto, and one in a poor neighborhood in the Bronx. n165 The Bronx
car was quickly stripped of its valuables. The Palo Alto car went untouched -
until the study's progenitor publicly smashed in the windows, precipitating
others to codemolish and rob the car. n166

   In 1982, social scientists George L. Kelling and James Q. Wilson announced
their broken windows theory in The Atlantic, parlaying the psychology experiment
into a theory of crime control: They argued that outward signs of "disorder"
invite law-breaking criminality by signaling to would-be criminals that the
geography's inhabitants lack effective practices of social cohesion and control.
n167 If the police can fix the visible signs of disorder (broken windows), the
argument goes, they can reduce serious criminal activity. The translation from
psychology experiment to preventive policing theory n168 was not the only
translation at work, however. Kelling and Wilson also forwarded broken windows
as a theory to motivate collaboration between police and the policed. n169 The
Atlantic story featured a 1970s foot patrol initiative in which  [*874]  foot
patrol worked with the "regulars" or "decent folk" to protect them from
"disorderly people" - "disreputable or obstreperous or unpredictable people:
panhandlers, drunks, addicts, rowdy teenagers, prostitutes, loiterers, the
mentally disturbed." n170

   In the legal academy, social norm theorists n171 championed community
policing efforts inflected by broken windows theory. n172 Community policing was
framed as a powerful tool for the government to address the legitimacy deficit
in African American communities, wherein relationships with police were defined
by histories of distrust and police violence. n173 But community policing also
[*875]  had its critics, n174 many of whom pointed to how broken windows theory
- even in a community policing guise - had shifted the focus of policing from
criminal conduct to "disorder." Broken windows theory assumed dichotomies
between "order and disorder," "insider and outsider," and the "law-abiding and
lawless;" n175 assumed these categories were stable and observable; and then
privileged order, insiders, and the law abiding over their counterparts. n176

   The meanings of disorder, outsiders, and lawlessness were left to police
discretion, assuming the police would not inevitably draw from preexisting
terrains of difference, and particularly the anti-Black racial text linking
Blackness and criminality, in making these distinctions. n177 Indeed, more
recent work has contested broken windows theory's assumption that the
"perception of disorder is governed by actual, observed levels of disorder."
n178 Instead, "racial and immigrant concentration proved more powerful
predictors of perceived disorder than did carefully observed disorder." n179
Broken windows theory, in its construction of the disorderly, the lawless, and
the outsider as legitimate subjects of policing, rendered already vulnerable
individuals as even more vulnerable to policing. n180 Critics also pointed out
that there was no empirical evidence to suggest that policing order decreased
crime n181 or increased civic engagement. n182

[*876]

   B. Radicalization, Counterradicalization, and National Security n183

 Like broken windows theory, radicalization theory has been highly contested and
yet broadly influential in shaping contemporary policing. While U.S. government
accounts take for granted a problem with radicalization that warrants government
intervention, the literatures of governments, academics, experts, and civil
society stakeholders around the world express profound disagreement over the
meaning of radicalization, and the nature and extent of threat embodied by
Muslims. n184 Radicalization discourse purports to predict future terrorism,
drawing from studies of prior terrorist acts to identify trends and details that
will aid in identifying future terrorists. In so doing, radicalization redefines
and expands the legitimate scope of government concern from terrorism - a
question of political violence, of crime, even of war crime - to radicalization
- a question of religious and political cultures and beliefs.

   Before moving further into the problems inherent in overlaying radicalization
theory onto community engagement, it is worth exploring the similarities and
differences between the work of radicalization theory and broken windows theory.
The primary similarities are threefold. First, both radicalization and broken
windows are preventative theories of crime control, calling for prophylactic
state action against noncriminal behavior. Second, while both theories appear
concerned with disorder or radicalization in the abstract, their practical
effect is to bring considerable scrutiny to communities already marginalized by
virtue of race and religion. As a practical matter, broken windows theory
foregrounds race and inequality as instigators or signs of disorder. n185
Counterradicalization and CVE, in practice and in theory, are almost exclusively
focused on Muslims. n186 Moreover, when manifest in community policing and
community engagement approaches, the theories work to cultivate partnerships
with community members in order to increase the legitimacy and reach of law
enforcement into the subject communities. Third, in addition to shaping
community policing/engagement  [*877]  approaches, both theories have had great
influence on the broader field of policing tactics in the relevant communities
(and beyond).

   There are at least two important differences. In terms of (contested) causal
claims, broken windows theory focuses on physical signs of disorder as signals
of deteriorating social order, whereas radicalization emphasizes ideological
currents of disorder as motivators for acts of terrorism. Radicalization's
concern is predicated on a false belief in the teleological character of Islam -
that if Muslims communities witness conservative religious practice and critical
politics, they will view such currents as acceptable and gravitate toward
radicalism, thereby producing more terrorists. Second, the theories arguably
have propelled different types of police action. Whereas broken windows theory
leads to aggressive enforcement against misdemeanor and minor crimes,
counterradicalization produces increased surveillance. n187 This distinction has
its limits, since broken windows policing serves an intelligence-gathering
function, and counter-radicalization shapes prosecutorial priorities. But while
both theories expand the role of the state and the blueprint of policing, their
mechanics are distinct.

   To be clear, I'm less concerned with anaologies between the causal mechanics
of the theories, and more concerned with how the theories construct the
categories of the disorderly and the radical, and the implications those
constructions have for policing and the subject communities.

   1. Blurring Dissent and Difference With Violence

 Even aside from the disproportionate focus on politically motivated violence by
Muslims in terrorism studies, there are key definitional problems with
radicalization discourse. Most fundamentally, the terms radicalization and
extremism are used sloppily and with unclear meaning, with a causal connection
assumed between radical ideas and committing acts of terrorism. n188

    [*878]  Empirical research "has emphatically and repeatedly concluded" that
there is no single terrorist profile and no obvious markers for the process by
which someone becomes a terrorist. n189 The process by which people embrace
violence is not linear but complex. n190 Importantly, studies of so-called
homegrown terrorism also reject the ideas that Islam and terrorism are linked,
or that observing the Muslim faith constitutes a step toward violence. n191 Nor
is there data to suggest that Muslims are becoming more radical in their views,
let alone more violent. n192 National security prosecutions in the headlines
provide a skewed sense of the threat; the vast majority of those prosecutions do
not charge defendants with any violent crime, or with any intent to commit
violent crime, but instead with material support for terrorism - a very broad
concept typically far removed from violence. n193

   Despite their continued hold on law enforcement, the NYPD and FBI reports are
transparent paper tigers - now deconstructed many times over. n194 The stages
and factors of radicalization are internally inconsistent and vague enough to
justify surveillance of any person who identifies as Muslim, or is linked with
Muslim religious or political community. Consider, for example, that the NYPD
[*879]  report marks as "radicalization incubators" "cafes, cab driver hangouts,
flophouses, prisons, student associations, nongovernmental organizations, hookah
(water pipe) bars, butcher shops and book stores": mostly locations where
Muslims or those from Muslim-majority countries are likely to spend their time,
whether for religious, political, or sentimental reasons. n195

   The reports offer little to no data in support of their ambitious
conclusions, with the lack of substantiation reflecting and reconstituting the
marginalization and stigmatization of American Muslims. The data on which the
reports rely include national security prosecutions involving questionable
tactics by law enforcement: constructing the plot, providing the means, and
incentivizing the conduct. In other words, the data results in part from cases
in which the FBI created or molded the behavior it then purported to model. n196
In other cases, the defendants never committed a violent act, confounding the
link between their behavior and a willingness to commit terrorist acts. n197
Overall, there remains no trustworthy empirical account of radicalization that
suggests the idea has explanatory or predictive power. n198

   2. Racializing Muslims

 Under the guise of predicting future terrorism, radicalization provides a guide
for government activity. In so doing, it redefines and expands the relevant
field of state concern: from terrorism to radicalization in Muslim communities.
Marking religious and political activities as the indicators of radicalization,
the discourse links religious and political practices in Muslim communities with
the likelihood of terrorism - inviting state scrutiny into the halls of Muslim
communities, and changing the terms of engagement with the state for Muslims.
The theory creates the Muslim, her religious and political habits, as an object
of policing.  [*880]  The theory is racially productive, n199 contributing to
the racialization of American Muslims. n200

   I use the term racialization knowing that it imperfectly describes the shape
and nature of the stigma that has attached to American Muslim communities after
9/11, not least because African Americans make up a considerable portion of the
Muslim population in the United States. American Muslims are unique in their
diversity, varying by race, language, ethnicity, nationality, and class. Still,
racialization best approximates the process by which a diverse group of people
become lumped together by stigma, stereotype, and fear, all of which draw from a
range of physical attributes and signifiers, mobilized by law, as a method of
control and subordination. As with other subordinated and racialized groups (for
example, Blacks, Latinos, Native Americans), there are for example, physical
attributes associated with Muslim identity, from skin color to facial hair to
garb. n201 By focusing on the post-9/11 era, I do not mean to minimize the
reality that Muslims were racialized before 9/11, or that a significant portion
of American Muslim communities are African American and have long been central
to the story of race in America.

   While crime is the primary lens through which African Americans figure in the
American imaginary, terrorism is the lens through which Muslims appear. African
American and Muslim identities are carved by and in opposition to particularized
types of suspicion. So the politics of respectability of each group is distinct
- with the pressure on African Americans to disavow and respond to
Black-on-Black crime, and for American Muslims to disavow and respond to
terrorism.

[*881]

   a. Creating Muslim Suspects

 The categories of "law-abiding" and "lawless," n202 "radical" and "moderate,"
are both overinclusive and indeterminate, n203 depending entirely for their
meaning on police deployment and creating deep vulnerability for Muslim
communities. n204 Muslims are forced to carry the stigma borne of such intense
scrutiny and are powerless to escape it, given that both playing up and
minimizing Muslim identity can be seen as potentially suspicious. n205 Evidence
suggests, however, that Muslims have changed their behaviors in response to the
reality and perception of extensive surveillance. For example, individuals
report signaling their Muslimness less openly, by praying at home rather than at
the mosque, avoiding political conversation in mosques and other Muslim-specific
spaces, or reducing donations to Muslim organizations. Similarly, mosques may
ask speakers to avoid political content, including criticism of U.S. foreign
policy. n206

   Radicalization discourse crystallizes the Muslim as a figure of legitimate
police scrutiny. n207 As Harcourt observed in the context of broken windows
theory, "the theory of deterrence and punishment focuses on the disorderly
person rather than the criminal act, and thereby facilitates a policy of
control, relocation, and exclusion of the disorderly"; "the category of the
disorderly is the product, in part,  [*882]  of the [policing] itself." n208
Broken windows theory does its work in a two-step dialectic: It shifts the
object of policing from crime to the out-of-place person, and in so doing,
constructs the out-of-place person as someone who needs to be surveilled and
controlled by the state.

   Similarly, radicalization theory and policing shift law enforcement's
attention from actual plans to commit a terrorist crime to Muslim religious and
political activity by literally marking observance of Muslim religious practice,
or expressions of political solidarity with other Muslims, as within its causal
framework. The radical Muslim, by virtue of noncriminal behavior - attending a
halaqa (religious study group), visiting family in Pakistan, growing a beard, or
paying off a mortgage n209 - embodies the potential threat of terrorism, and in
so doing becomes a legitimate object of policing even when engaging in wholly
noncriminal (now suspicious) behavior. "Politicization," "becoming involved in
social activism and community issues," and "watching jihadi videos ... that
highlight atrocities committed against Muslims" bring you within the third
stage. It is not until the fourth stage that the theory concerns itself with any
intent to undertake a criminal act. In other words, you could be three-fourths
radicalized - a nearly full blown threat, one would imagine - and have yet to
form any concrete thoughts of committing any crime. You might have radical
beliefs, but no intent to commit a violent crime. The conservative Muslim,
rolling up his pant sleeve in accord with a certain religious practice, or
attending the Friday sermon criticizing U.S. foreign policy, embodies this
disorder, and the potential for a much larger threat.

   The religious and political vectors of radicalization theory work in
different, if intersecting, ways; both vectors reflect concerns with the ideas
and activities of Muslim communities. The religious vector marks basic observant
behavior and conservative modes of Muslim religious practice as radical, and
therefore worthy of suspicion. "Giving up cigarettes, drinking, [and] gambling,"
for example, or "wearing traditional Islamic clothing" are markers of
radicalization. n210 It matters both what type of Islam you believe in and what
you practice: whether your actions (do you follow to a tee the hadith of the
Prophet Muhammad?) or level of devotion and study (do you regularly attend a
halaqa?) adhere to more conservative modes of practice. The "more Muslim" you
are in the religious sense, the more radical, and the more potentially
threatening you appear to be. n211

    [*883]  The political vector marks your relationship to the project of
American statecraft vis a vis your concern and commune with other Muslims. The
ideological questions are awash in a loyalty calculus, focused on whether you
foreground concern with Muslim community and Muslim suffering at home and
abroad, or the imperatives of the U.S. government in effectuating its policies.
Implicit here is the idea that such concern is compatible with American identity
only to the extent that it comes second or does not compete with U.S. government
interests. n212

   The activity dimensions focus on Muslim engagement with political issues vis
a vis other Muslims and the U.S. government. Does this person or community
protest U.S. foreign or national security policy? Does this person or community
comply with requests to inform on the local mosque when asked by the FBI to do
so?

   The radicalization and counterradicalization discourses have clear
implications for the meaning of good citizenship on the part of American
Muslims: To be a good citizen is to have a compliant relationship with the
state, rather than to relate from an oppositional or contesting stance. Are you
with us or against us? n213 remains the question. If radicalization creates
ideological force for the idea that the state should monitor Muslims, and
radical Muslims in particular, then counterradicalization initiatives
operationalize the distinction, offering American Muslims an opening to perform
their Americanness by partnering with the government. n214 The distinction
emerges not simply from how Muslims signal their identity or allegiance with
regard to Muslim religious practices or other Muslims. The distinction between
the radical and American Muslim emerges in part from how Muslims relate to U.S.
statecraft or U.S. government initiatives.

    [*884]  Counterradicalization creates friction between loyalty to the U.S.
project and practices of Muslim identity. In particular, the Muslim concept of
the ummah, or global Muslim community, comes into conflict with
counterradicalization commitments. Resistance to, or criticism of, American
foreign policy in Muslim lands is a factor of radicalization. n215 So is concern
for Muslim casualties abroad, or discrimination against Muslims in the United
States. n216 Traveling abroad to Muslim countries, even for hyphenated
second-generation Americans visiting family, suggests suspicious connection.
n217

   In classifying Muslims who attend mosque, who travel or send money abroad, or
who oppose the U.S. drone policy in Yemen and Pakistan, as within the process of
radicalization toward terrorism, the theory marks individuals and geographies as
sufficiently different to be outside the protections of the state, transforming
them into legitimate objects of state scrutiny. n218 Radical Muslims become the
lawless out-of-place subjects deserving of little protection. n219

   Counterradicalization cleaves Muslim from American identities in another way,
equating cooperation with the state with Americanness and loyalty, and dissent
with Muslimness, radicalization, and terrorism. Efforts at partnering with
Muslim communities in counterradicalization efforts create opportunities for
American Muslims to signal their allegiance. Like the "regulars" and the
"lawful" in the broken windows account, those considered American Muslims are
partners in counterradicalization - they stand for the state's values, will
cooperate with the police in their efforts to monitor and influence
coreligionists, and will step down in the face of conflict. By exercising a
right of refusal to cooperate with the state, the American Muslim moves toward
radicalism, the radical emerging in response to the state's policing.

[*885]

   b. Creating the Terms of Racial Obedience

 Radicalization and counterradicalization place identity pressures on American
Muslims in their interactions with each other, the public, and the state. n220
To cooperate - no matter the substance of law enforcement's demand and
expectation - is to validate one's American identity. To refuse or to dissent is
to express radicalism, or at least openness to it. n221

   Radicalization policing creates the "racial obedience toward, and fear of,
the police," manifested in "particular kinds of performances ... . to signal
acquiescence and respectability." n222 Of course this racialized pressure
emerges from a larger social context - people of color are subject to more
frequent and more severe police scrutiny, and they are fearful that refusing the
police will stoke racial animosity or race-based suspicion and aggravate an
already bad situation. n223 Immigrants in particular are less likely to know
their rights. In all these contexts, accountability is minimal, so the police
"have an incentive to exploit vulnerabilities." n224

   Radicalization theory has created a post-9/11 reality in which Muslims "are
more vulnerable to compliance requests, more likely to comply, and have to give
up more privacy to do so." n225 Radicalization-informed policing produces a
loyalty discourse in which there are "good" and "bad" Muslims, and thereby
"entrenches the idea of [Muslimness] as a crime of identity," n226 "encourages
group surveillance," and incentivizes Muslims "to be available for, indeed
advocate for, white  [*886]  racial inspection of [Muslimness]." n227 As with
the politics of respectability in Black communities, this approach does not
protect the "good" Muslims but, instead, renders all Muslims "vulnerable to
racial profiling." n228

   Indeed, radicalization creates geographies of suspicion. While the geography
of broken windows theory was effectively one of class and race - hoisting the
specter of the poor Black neighborhood - the sphere of radicalization is
religious and cultural (though of course inflected by race and class as well).
n229 In large metropolitan centers, there are certainly physically contiguous
neighborhoods where Muslims of similar racial or class backgrounds reside. In
the rest of the country, however, Muslims of different classes, races,
nationalities, and linguistic and ethnic groups are more dispersed. In these
places, government surveillance creates a different kind of geography out of the
places where Muslims gather: the mosque, the halal butcher, or the Indian or
Somali grocery store. And visiting these places makes you vulnerable to police
scrutiny. n230

   Beyond the policing practices themselves, there is the realm of public
discourse and debate in which Muslims make their choices. The most public and
theatrical government initiative drawing attention to radicalization occurred
with Peter King's first in a series of hearings before the House Homeland
Security Committee in 2011 and 2012, meant to address "a crisis of
radicalization to violence ... within the Muslim-American community" n231
[*887]  and a refusal by Muslims to cooperate. n232 Those called by King as
representatives of Muslim communities testified that American Muslims were
ignoring concerns with radicalization and could do more to cooperate. n233 The
witnesses lampooned a number of mainstream and prominent American Muslim
advocacy organizations - Muslim Advocates, the Council on American Islamic
Relations, and the Muslim Public Affairs Council, all of which have met
regularly with federal, state, and local city officials - for undermining Muslim
cooperation with law enforcement efforts. The organizations and other community
leaders came under fire especially for their recent initiatives counseling
community members to retain a lawyer before dealing with the FBI. n234

   A loyalty discourse thus took shape during the King hearings, as cooperation
with law enforcement was counterposed with Muslims' exercise of their right to
counsel. n235 In essence, Muslims were encouraged to waive their rights and
cooperate with the state without undertaking any method of self-protection, as a
way to demonstrate their Americanness and their loyalty to the American project.
No scrutiny was given to the law enforcement efforts with which they were being
asked to cooperate. n236

   While the King hearing is a particularly egregious example of a government
initiative that creates a binary between Muslim and American identity, other
initatives contribute to the same identity cleavage. n237 For example, the White
House's various counterradicalization, CVE, and community-  [*888]  government
partnerships have all contributed to this discourse, charging all American
Muslims with the task of protecting the nation against terrorist threats. n238
In this context, joining hands with counterradicalization efforts, whatever they
may entail, becomes the good American thing to do, while refusing becomes the
wrong, terrorist, or Muslim option.

   c. Racializing Ideology

 In addition to shaping modes of political engagement with the state,
radicalization discourse and counterradicalization practice affect the
parameters of religious and political conversations and contestation by
rendering certain viewpoints or topics as off limits. n239 Of course it is not
just the existence of the discourse at work here - it is the recurring and
regularized interactions with police that serve as constant reminders of the
stakes for American Muslims.

   Much of terrorism and radicalization discourses are enshrouded in a politics
of "anti-knowledge." n240 Terrorism studies tend to "reduce complex social,
historical, and political dynamics." n241 Chief among the "constraints shaping
what can be said about terrorism" is "denial of the possibility of rational
causes, and the attribution of terrorism to pure evil." n242 The mainstream
narrative "implies that, once an individual has adopted an extremist religious
ideology, terrorism will result, irrespective of political context or any
calculation on the part of any organisation or social movement." n243 Similarly,
radicalization and violent extremism discourse displaces any attention on
political context with a focus on theological and psychological factors that
supposedly foment radicalization. n244

    [*889]  Radicalization theory marks certain topics or viewpoints as beyond
the pale by suggesting that they are un-American or likely to draw government
scrutiny. n245 As a result, radicalization discourse puts pressure on the
contours of conversation among Muslim communities about the public issues of our
times to which many American Muslims are particularly attuned. n246 American
Muslims are thus less likely to vocalize concerns about the exercise of American
war power in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia, Yemen, and so on. n247 The
absence of Muslim voices on these issues is particularly notable given how much
of contemporary U.S. foreign policy is focused on Muslim populations. Equally
important, the space for religious debate - on questions such as the meaning of
"jihad" or different modes of interpretation - in mosques and other Muslim
community space has also shrunk and warped. n248 "Since 9/11, mosque leaders
have been under pressure to eject anyone expressing radical views, rather than
engaging with them and seeking to challenge their religious interpretation,
address their political frustrations, or meet their emotional needs." n249

   Moreover, radicalization discourse may serve to pathologize complex social
problems, displace focus from the role of government activity in creating those
problems, and place the burden of solving them on already marginalized
communities. Broken windows theory could be criticized along the same lines: The
underlying roots of ordinary crime - poverty, joblessness, mass incarceration,
disenfranchisement - disappear under the discourse of "disorder." In the context
of national security, the complicated political historical terrain between the
U.S. government and Muslim communities within the United States on the one hand,
and the United States, Muslim-majority countries, and international terrorist
groups on the other, disappears under the discourse of radicalization and the
terrorist Other.

[*890]

   III. Community Engagement's Coercion

 While community engagement aims to build relationships with Muslim communities,
to gain trust and enhance communication, it also functions as a technique of
policing radicalization, encouraging all-encompassing surveillance of Muslim
communities and working to cultivate in Muslims a suspicion of coreligionists'
religiosity and politicization. n250 Community engagement becomes yet another
pressure point at which Muslims must participate in surveillance or else suggest
disloyalty to the American project. Given its anchoring in
counterradical-ization, the order that community engagement seeks to impose
draws from ideas about the proper ways to practice Islam in America, the right
balance between religious and secular life, and a demand for a certain form of
political assimilation. n251 It closes, or at least narrows, possibilities for
meaningful contestation and collaboration, while obscuring, and even
reinforcing, the power differential between Muslim communities and law
enforcement. The space between how community engagement appears - as a
democracy-or inclusion-enhancing venture - and the work it actually does to
reinforce coercive policing is what this Part explores.

   Throughout the foregoing discussion, I have emphasized the dangers associated
with law enforcement's community engagement efforts - in particular how
counterradicalization and community engagement work to cultivate
pro-law-enforcement attitudes and affectations, such that Muslims open up their
communities in various ways for government inspection and regulation. In so
emphasizing, I do not mean to disparage civic engagement, which is no doubt
constitutive of democracy. The quality of civic engagement has to matter,
though, if the end is democracy of any meaningfully participatory or accountable
variety, and if the goal is to bring outsider communities into the fold. I am
not convinced that encouraging marginalized citizens' interactions with their
government is constructive of democracy when it is achieved through coercive
means - which do not allow for contestation of terms or meaningful input, and
instead provide pressure on communities to participate in the very policing
tactics that create the gulf in trust that propels the need for forays into
trust building. When this participation and consent are shaped by a pressure to
perform  [*891]  Americanness and to dispel racialized assumptions about loyalty
and allegiance, the coercion raises acute equality and antisubordination
concerns.

   The federal government has an interest in community engagement apart from
democracy: national security. Through the surveillance and acculturation of
communities marked as vulnerable to anti-American persuasion, the government
hopes to prevent attacks on its (non-Muslim) citizens. But while a fear of
Muslims or so-called Islamic terrorism fuels the push for community engagement,
the data does not substantiate the extent of the concerns. When one considers
the size of the global Muslim population, or even simply the American Muslim
population, the few acts of terrorism committed by Muslims in the United States
are infinitesimal, including as compared to other threats. n252 The bloated
concern with terrorism seems to be motivated more by politics than by facts.

   Community policing generates its moral authority by tapping into the ideas of
community support and democratic legitimacy, but the slippery quality of the
term community, and the terrain of inequality that gives rise to the push for
such programs, provokes two nested concerns. First, community engagement
programs are largely top down, with federal government prerogatives imposed on
Muslim communities. Community engagement creates the aesthetics of democracy and
inclusion without necessarily reflecting any substantive commitments to those
values. Concretely, the police may select partners that ratify preexisting
police practices, n253 or pursue community engagement primarily as another entry
point for surveillance and norms molding, as opposed to a source of
accountability or contestation. The appearance of collaboration, without any
real possibility of significant contestation, may undermine rather than bolster
democracy, augmenting the coercive power of the state. Moreover, to the extent
community engagement draws on racialized pressures on Muslims to perform their
Americanness, and disavow their Muslimness, as a way to prove their American
bona fides, the police partnerships exacerbate autonomy, equality, and
subordination concerns implicated in the broader regime of policing
radicalization. Second, the police partnerships may exacerbate hierarchies
within Muslim communities.  [*892]  Police partnerships may have distributive
effects internal to the community, such that the elite may be further empowered
over the marginalized - even as they themselves are subject to coercive state
power.

   If the inclusive and democratic work of community engagement is questionable,
and the fear of Muslims outsized, we must be suspect of the heightened push for
community engagement with Muslim communities. My primary concern here is to test
or problematize the democratic claims of this tactic. n254

   A. A Top-Down Approach

 If we are to take the democracy and inclusion claims of community engagement
seriously, we should expect that communities are able to "exert meaningful
influence" n255 or have a determinative role in setting policing "goals,
priorities, and strategies." n256 If community engagement does not provide
opportunities for meaningful or determinative input but rather facilitates
involvement only to the extent that participants lend support to preexisting law
enforcement priorities, then its claim to democratic legitimacy should be
questioned.

   There is strong reason to question the democratic claims of community
engagement. As with community policing in the ordinary criminal context, a basic
tenet of community engagement is that there is value for Muslim communities and
law enforcement in cultivating channels of communication. The emphasis in
official government statements is on relationship and trust building, inclusion,
and democracy. But community engagement efforts, steeped in
counterradicalization, play important norms-molding and intelligence-gathering
functions, raising important questions about the implicit claims to democracy
enhancement on which the efforts rely. Moreover, whereas building trust and
relationships is based generally on the idea of two-way obligations, in reality
the government has done little to address the fundamental root of distrust -
which starts with the overly broad and punitive approach to policing entire
Muslim communities. n257 Interacting with Muslim communities, law enforcement's
prevailing focus is national security,  [*893]  foregrounding threat potential
in government's interactions with Muslim communities. n258

   Above and beyond the concerns with community engagement serving as a cover
for surveillance and norms molding, the federal government has repeatedly
signaled little room for American Muslim communities to play a determinative
role in setting priorities. Community engagement provides opportunities for
American Muslims to partake in and ratify law enforcement's work. In a community
engagement push by federal law enforcement with Minnesota's Somali communities,
for example, "[an] FBI private acknowledged, there was no possibility of the
community [having] influenced how the investigations were carried out." n259 To
the contrary, the aims were more one-sided: to "correct what its agents called
"misperceptions' ... such as that suspects in Somalia might be imprisoned
without trial or targeted for drone killings (such community fears were
consistent with official US policy ...)" and "to encourage community leaders to
pass information to federal agents about young people." n260 While there might
be space to raise concerns with the government, there is little reason to
suggest any real possibility for meaningful or determinative input. n261

   The detachment of community engagement from its claim to democratic authority
starts at the foundational level. Community policing's historical aim has been
to reduce crime in an inner city or even a particular neighborhood. The subject
community could in some sense be imagined to be working with the police to
enhance its own welfare. Central to proponents' arguments for community policing
has been the idea that African American communities suffer from underenforcement
by police and need more policing to rid their communities of  [*894]  crime.
n262 In its national security manifestation, however, community engagement's aim
is to secure the state. Muslims are made responsible not for their own condition
but for the welfare of the entire nation - and for protecting the nation against
terrorists. It is a "particularized responsibility [for the welfare of the
nation] ... not shared by other groups." n263 The assignment of responsibility
should trouble us for a number of reasons, including basic American
proscriptions against guilt by association and racial and religious profiling.

   Muslim communities had not identified radicalization or violent extremism as
an issue of concern before the government's framing of radicalization and
violent extremism as a national priority. n264 By and large, Muslim communities
and advocacy groups have not only objected to the radicalization framework and
the assertion of growing radicalization in Muslim communities, n265 but have
also insisted that they are cooperating with law enforcement efforts. n266
Community engagement - in its current manifestation, grounded in
counterradicalization and CVE - has, in some sense, been foisted on Muslim
communities. n267

    [*895]  The federal nature of the underlying concern also undercuts
community engagement's democratic potential. Federal law enforcement entities,
national in scope and in responsibility, take the lead in community engagement
efforts, whereas local police embody community policing as originally conceived.
Even in the community policing context, critics worried that more marginalized
communities or more marginalized segments of communities - the ones most in need
of protection from abusive, unaccountable policing - would be unable to exert
enough power to contest or hold police accountable. In the federal context, not
to mention the politically charged realm of national security, the concern is
even more acute. The idea that marginalized, dispersed, and diverse Muslim
communities could hold accountable the federal government or federal law
enforcement on national security issues is dubious. If Muslims had the political
power to hold the police accountable, community engagement programs would not be
necessary from a democracy or inclusion perspective to begin with.

   At the heart of radicalization discourse is the idea that Muslims and Islam
are responsible for terrorism. Radicalization discourse creates false and
stigmatizing equivalences: between Islam, Muslims, and terrorism, and between
Islam, Muslims, and violence. In turn, community engagement becomes a tool of
counterradicalization in which Muslims are asked to participate,
instru-mentalizing Muslim leaders to share information on their co-religionists
in a regime that conflates Islam with the problem. n268 This information sharing
happens knowingly and unknowingly, directly and indirectly, and with varying
degrees of consent and coercion, through community participation in community
engagement efforts.

   The well-intentioned community leader seeking to forge ties with law
enforcement as a way to help his community may unwittingly share intelligence
that renders coreligionists even more vulnerable. n269 The recently released
2009 FBI Policy Directive on community engagement reflects the sense of the
agency that community members do not have an expectation that community
engagement will generate information for "an FBI file or database." n270 Indeed,
when advocacy groups publicized the records obtained by the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) demonstrating the Bay Area FBI mosque outreach program
served as a cover for surveillance, Muslim communities reacted with surprise.
n271  [*896]  The revelations that community engagement initiatives have served
to collect intelligence on entire Muslim communities have had devastating
effects on the ability of these communities to function cohesively and trust in
law enforcement. n272

   Nonetheless, Muslims are asked to choose the state over self-determination
and autonomy. n273 Muslim communities are asked to participate in political and
religious acculturation of their communities, to ensure their coreligionists are
sufficiently American - not too conservative, not too critical of the United
States. There is pressure on Muslims to moderate their religious and political
views - and to pressure coreligionists to do the same - for the good of the
nation.

   A significant aspect of this duty is to facilitate the state's reach into
Muslim communities by partnering in surveillance and culture shaping, including
by opening doors to, and participating in, law enforcement community engagement.
n274 Community engagement may also incentivize community members to share
information about coreligionists' day-to-day activities with law enforcement.
This incentivization may occur through opportunities to perform Americanness -
an American Muslim specific politics of respectability, perhaps - and may come
with concrete benefits, such as access to government officials, invitations to
other community engagement programs, or even help with immigration issues. n275

   But the pressure to participate in the acculturation does not end at the town
hall or meet-and-greet effort. The community engagement contact becomes a
conduit through which participants become part of the larger surveillance
apparatus: This requires accepting the premises of counterradicalization and the
view that conservative modes of religious practice, or harsh criticism of the
United States, is suspicious or dangerous. It also requires adopting the view
that Muslims have a role in sharing information on and regulating the political
and religious currents in their communities, and that they must condemn
radicalism and extremism in any form in their communities. A Muslim businessman
who has partnered in community engagement efforts explained: "The FBI is really
helping us to know what to look for ... . If you see someone changing overnight,
[*897]  growing a beard and starting to wear different clothes, we need to find
out what is happening." n276 Similarly, in a 2010 presentation to Muslim
community leaders in Houston, FBI "agents asked attendees to report on community
members who were "taking extreme positions' and "trying to enforce a limited
understanding of religion.'" n277

   B. Constitutive, Distributive Effects n278

 The definition and boundaries of a community are malleable. Out of the same
population, the police could constitute different communities organized around
various axes of identity (race, class, gender, profession); around ideological
persuasions, including opinions about the police or the importance of working
with them; n279 or around a desire to work with the police and access the power
such partnership may facilitate. Indeed, Muslim communities are incredibly
diverse, n280 comprising infinite varieties of formal and  [*898]  informal
religious ideologies, national, linguistic, and ethnic differences, and class
divisions. n281

   The White House community engagement plan focuses on the "community" without
identifying a specific ethnic or religious group as particularly relevant to the
project of national security. n282 While the White House goes to some length to
emphasize that terrorist recruitment could happen in various communities, the
force of its efforts has been on Muslim communities, n283 just as the bulk of
government CVE and counterradicalization materials are focused on Muslims and
Islam. n284 In focusing on Muslims and Islam as the primary threat facing the
nation in this way, n285 these government efforts constitute Muslims as a
threat, with Islam to blame; and they hold entire religious communities to
account for the acts of individuals.

   Community engagement initiatives necessarily focus on subgroups within Muslim
communities. n286 Recent data suggests community engagement efforts focus on
Arab American Muslims, to the relative exclusion of African American, South
Asian, and other American Muslims of various decent. n287 In focusing on certain
subgroups - youth, for example - the government seems to have assigned them a
particularly high threat of radicalization, which, in turn, is likely to
intensify vulnerability in these communities.

   There's an observable synergy between the focus of community engagement
efforts, policing radicalization, and foreign policy priorities. n288 Government
[*899]  focus on the American Somali community - in the form of community
engagement and other policing, as well for material support prosecutions n289 -
dovetailed with U.S. foreign policy concerns about al-Shabaab, a Somalia-based
designated Foreign Terrorist Organization, n290 which several Somali Americans
allegedly traveled abroad to join. n291 Similarly, the latest focus on ISIS has
come with a resurgent push on community engagement, policing, and material
support prosecutions in American Muslim communities. n292 In practice, then,
community engagement is closely intertwined with other policing methods and
functions, as well as the security crisis of the day - reconstituting the idea
that federal community engagement approaches Muslims first as potential threats,
and then as partners. n293

   While community engagement initiatives do not overtly make distinctions based
on class, they inevitably prioritize community elites: leaders, imams,
businessmen, and other centers of influence in Muslim communities. n294 Other
more blatantly coercive techniques of policing radicalization - those recruited
into formal informant relationships, or targeted by informants for
radicalization or entrapment - are likely to focus on community members more
vulnerable by virtue of their class, immigration status, or criminal records.
Thus  [*900]  while relative elites may partner with law enforcement to
facilitate access, those that suffer the most acute consequences are more likely
more vulnerable.

   There may be financial mechanics to counterradicalization programming n295 -
both with regard to funding for state and local law enforcement, and for
community partners - raising a whole host of other issues. Federal dollars may
induce state and local law enforcement to approach local Muslim communities with
a new counterradicalization lens and may warp the work of community-based
organizations. n296 Consider the St. Paul example. St. Paul's police department
secured DOJ funding to take a counterradicalization community engagement
approach in a longstanding outreach program with local American Somali
communities. n297 In turn, Muslim American Society of Minnesota "got funding
through the program to hire a police liaison." n298 In other words, DOJ funded
the local police department, which in turn funded the community-based
organization's effort. The executive director of the organization was "asked to
keep track of attendees at outreach meetings" but, when asked by the police
department to share the list of participants, he refused. n299

   Certainly, there are ideological dimensions to partnership with the federal
government. n300 Counterradicalization programs will bolster Muslim leaders who
are seen as moderate in their religious and political views, and thereby involve
the government in shaping of acceptable forms of Islam and palatable forms of
political  [*901]  engagement. n301 Equally troublingly, community engagement
programs may work only with those Muslims who are relatively more amenable to
the government's counterradicalization approach.

   Community engagement "tends to empower those who want more policing at the
expense of those who want more control of the police ... . [and] to exclude
those whose interests are in less aggressive policing." n302 Those interested in
more policing are likely to be more politically organized, have more political
capital, and be more likely to be invited to or to attend police community
forums. n303 Those uninterested in more policing may avoid any interactions with
the police, let alone cultivate partnerships. Refusal to participate in such
efforts may even be construed as a sign of radicalization. n304

   More generally, law enforcement plays an important role in who gets a seat at
the table to represent the American Muslim community. Take the case of the
Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), the largest Muslim American civil
rights organization. In 2009, the FBI cut off ties with CAIR, not viewing the
group as an "appropriate liaison partner." n305 The Islamic Shura Council of
[*902]  Southern California registered its complaint with the Los Angeles field
office, suspending the membership organization's participation in the FBI's
outreach work. n306 The American Civil Liberties Union later complained to the
DOJ Office of Inspector General about the FBI's "publicly and selectively
ostracizing CAIR from its official outreach events" without adequate basis to
exclude the civil rights organization. n307 In the aftermath, the Muslim Public
Affairs Council (MPAC) started to play a more significant role in the federal
government's outreach and counterradicalization efforts in Los Angeles and
around the country. n308

   Behind the vision of community in accounts of community policing and
community engagement, there tends to be a nostalgic, aspirational idea of
community disconnected from reality: a community where there are bright
boundaries demarcating who is inside and outside, and the community's wants are
clear and unanimous. n309 In relying on this imagined community, community
policing has prioritized order over dissent and agreement over disagreement. It
has failed, moreover, to take communities seriously in their messy realities,
and has fallen short of its potential to be a more democratic form of policing.
The desire to partner with antiradical or moderate elements in American Muslim
communities imposes a similar imaginary for American Muslims - creating a
community engagement program that is inflexible and unresponsive to dissent or
contestation.

   C. Push Back

 Since 9/11, Muslim communities have consistently articulated a fear of being
outspoken or involved in the public sphere for fear of retribution or scrutiny
[*903]  from the federal government. n310 The concern is that any heightened
visibility may draw the surveillance of the state to their door. This concern
has manifested in a reluctance to organize or articulate criticism of U.S.
policies toward Muslims at home and abroad, and in changed relationships to
spaces of community and worship. n311 At the same time, Muslim communities have
become increasingly vocal in their objections to broad-based surveillance - and
in particular the use of informants - in their communities. n312

   In the most recent wave of community engagement initiatives, Muslim
communities have, notably, used the forums discussed herein to contest the modes
through which the federal government is interacting with them. When the
Secretary of Homeland Security visited an Ohio mosque, for example, "he faced a
litany of grievances ... [including complaints of] humiliating border
inspections by brusque federal agents [and] F.B.I. sting operations that wrongly
targeted Muslim citizens as terrorists." n313 The mosque's youth coordinator
told the New York Times: "Our relationship has to be built on trust, but the
U.S. government hasn't given us very many reasons to build up that trust." n314

   Public boycott of high-profile community engagement events at the White House
have become a tool for organizing and resistance. n315 In advance of the 2014
annual White House iftar during the month of Ramadan, a wide-ranging debate
emerged among American Muslims when a petition calling for boycott of the iftar
emerged on social media, and the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee
(ADC) issued a statement in support. n316 The boycott was framed as a response
[*904]  to the Administration's "support for Israel's massacre of Palestinians
in Gaza" and the latest Snowden revelations about the NSA spying on American
Muslim leaders, including those involved in community engagement initiatives.
n317 The ADC explained that "political engagement is important and having a seat
at the table is crucial - but only when the seat is intended to amplify our
voice as a community, not tokenize or subdue it." n318 While many boycotted the
iftar, many attended despite sharing the concerns motivating the boycott. n319

   Similarly, a number of Muslim American community groups boycotted and
protested the three-day CVE summit held at the White House in February 2015.
n320 A coalition of American Muslim and civil rights groups issued a joint
statement in advance of the summit outlining concerns that community engagement
"from a CVE standpoint sets American Muslim communities apart as inherently
suspect"; that "CVE tasks community members to expansively monitor the beliefs
and expressive or associational activities of other Muslims" and "creates a
climate of fear and chills constitutionally protected activity"; and that
"mutual trust is difficult, if not impossible," given the FBI's larger set of
police practices, including "deceptively conducting intelligence gathering under
the guise of community outreach," and relying on "law enforcement agencies [to]
play the lead role in implementing CVE ..." n321  [*905]  While some of the
signatories "declined the invitation" to the summit, the groups "collectively
decided that representatives from some of our groups will attend in order to
provide a sorely missing critical perspective on the CVE framework and to seek
more information about the rollout and implementation of CVE pilot ..." n322 At
the same time, a number of Muslim Student Association chapters issued a strong
statement opposing CVE programs "to ensure that our American Muslim community is
not mistreated and that our youth are able to live their lives free from fear of
surveillance, racial and religious profiling, and as strong, active members of
their communities." n323

   It is too soon to know whether American Muslims publicly organizing and
debating the merits of community engagement, will lead to change, or lead to
programs that simply work around the protest and protesters. Law enforcement's
response may portend the democratic potential of community engagement. n324

   Conclusion

 This Article has attempted to identify the problems with community engagement
and counterradicalization in the national security context, drawing from the
critiques of community policing and broken windows in the ordinary criminal
context. The canvas for this critical engagement was limited insofar as  [*906]
Muslim communities' experiences in these programs have been largely sheltered
from public view. Harvesting those experiences is no doubt essential to
understanding the possibilities and limitations of these programs. This Article
provided a sketch of the problems lurking near the surface - that is left to
future work.

   Is community engagement salvageable? Moving community engagement toward its
most democratic aspirations - toward a more genuine exercise in community
consultation, contestation, and collaboration - would involve ridding the
program of its pernicious baggage. For example, law enforcement could end
community engagement's integration with community-wide intelligence gathering,
or could decouple community engagement from CVE and counterradicalization.

   Certainly there are strong normative reasons, including those that motivate
this Article, to expect and demand that law enforcement account for the
realities of marginalized communities. But we cannot expect that dialogue will
necessarily lead to accountability, meaningful contestation, or realignment of
police approaches in marginalized communities. After all, law enforcement is
itself a significant vehicle for marginalization and racialization in the United
States. It is reasonable to question whether community policing - or policing at
all - can be expected to be the vehicle for the change we are seeking. The
problem and the solution may be entirely mismatched.

   The allure of community policing rests in part on a broader construct of
dialogue as inherently valuable. While dialogue can certainly be valuable, its
value will depend on the context and the point of view from which it is being
evaluated. Dialogue often serves a different function for the more powerful in
the conversation than the less powerful. The idea that dialogue is the cure-all
for poor relationships between police and marginalized communities emerges from
a failure to recognize the structures and histories of police impunity in these
communities, as well as the material realities that keep inequality in place.
When the dialogue in question is with the police, initiated by the police, and
on the police's own terms, not only is the function of the dialogue necessarily
limited, the entire initiative should raise red flags. How will the dialogue
change the material reality of policing in the community? Does the dialogue
further exacerbate inequality or simply validate preexisting policing practices
through the performance of democratic legitimacy? Or is it really allowing for
messy democratic contestation, and the possibility for change in the material
conditions of the relationship between the police and the marginalized?

   For community policing to be an effective tool in changing the relationship
between the marginalized and law enforcement, marginalized communities cannot
simply be offered a seat at the table to participate in preconceived policing
[*907]  programs. They must have the political power to hold police accountable.
For community policing mechanisms to offer potential for real change to
marginalized communities, communities must build capacity and political power to
demand accountability. So while we might advocate for law enforcement to engage
marginalized communities, we cannot rely on law enforcement initiatives to
recalibrate relationships long rife with deep inequality. The pressure for
meaningful change must come from outside, from the communities themselves
organizing for change. n325

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Am. Civil Liberties Union, ACLU Eye on the FBI: The San Francisco FBI
Conducted a Years-Long Mosque Outreach Program That Collected and Illegally
Stored Intelligence About American Muslims' First Amendment-Protected Religious
Beliefs and Practices (2012) [hereinafter Eye on the FBI (2012)], available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/assets/aclu_eye_on _the_fbi_-_mosque_outreach_
03272012_0_0.pdf (cataloging FBI documents obtained through the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA)); Am. Civil Liberties Union, ACLU Eye on the FBI: The FBI
Is Using the Guise of "Community Outreach" to Collect and Illegally Store
Intelligence Information on Americans' Political and Religious Beliefs (2011)
[hereinafter Eye on the FBI (2011)], available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/assets/aclu_
eye_on_the_fbi_alert_-_community_outreach_as_intelligence _gathering_0.pdf
(cataloging Fed-eral Bureau of Investigation (FBI) documents obtained through
FOIA requests. The effort was part of "the FBI's ongoing contact with all
Mosques and Islamic Community Centers in the FBI's San Francisco territory for
the purposes of community outreach." Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of
Investigation's San Jose Resident Agency (Feb. 22, 2005) [hereinafter FBI
Memorandum (Feb. 22, 2005)], available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20120302 /ACLURM017868.pdf.





n2.  See, e.g., Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose
Resident Agency (May 31, 2005), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM01 7882 .pdf; Memorandum
from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident Agency (May 26, 2005),
available at http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM01
7879.pdf.





n3.  Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident Agency
(Oct. 4, 2005) [hereinafter FBI Memorandum (Oct. 4, 2005)], available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/ fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM017902.pdf; Memorandum
from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident Agency (June 29,
2007), available at http://www.aclu.org/files/
fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM017968.pdf.





n4.  E.g., Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident
Agency (Mar. 8, 2005) [hereinafter FBI Memorandum (Mar. 8, 2005)], available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/ fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM017871.pdf.





n5.  FBI Memorandum (Feb. 22, 2005), supra note 1.





n6.  Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident Agency
(Aug. 25, 2005), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM01 7890.pdf. For a
discussion of the Lodi prosecution, and its impacts on local communities, see
Aziz Z. Huq, The Signaling Function of Religious Speech in Domestic
Counterterrorism, 89 Tex. L. Rev. 833, 854-55 (2011); Sunaina Maira, "Good" and
"Bad" Muslim Citizens: Feminists, Terrorists, and U.S. Orientalisms, 35 Feminist
Stud. 631, 637-39 (2009); Shirin Sinnar, Questioning Law Enforcement: The First
Amendment and Counterterrorism Interviews, 77 Brook. L. Rev. 41, 51 (2011).





n7.  FBI Memorandum (Feb. 22, 2005), supra note 1.





n8.  Id.





n9.  Throughout this Article, I draw a distinction between the "ordinary
criminal context" and the "national security context." This is not to suggest
that the two contexts do not overlap, but instead to establish gross
distinctions between "ordinary crimes" (burglary, theft, larceny, drug-dealing,
murder, etc.) and "national security crimes" (crimes that undermine the security
of the country as a whole and that purportedly further terrorist causes). While
these realms will often overlap, draw on, and even define each other, these
labels are meant to reflect the distinct approaches by law enforcement to
communities understood as majority Black and Latino on the one hand, and
communities understood as Muslim on the other.





n10.  See, e.g., Speech, Eric Holder, U.S. Att'y Gen., Remarks at the Muslim
Advocates' Annual Dinner (Dec. 10, 2010),
www.justice.gov/iso/opa/ag/speeches/2010/ag-speech-1012101.html.





n11.  See, e.g., FBI Memorandum (Mar. 8, 2005), supra note 4.





n12.  Id.





n13.  FBI Memorandum (June 29, 2007), supra note 3.





n14.  FBI Memorandum (Oct. 4, 2005), supra note 3.





n15.  Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident
Agency (July 25, 2005), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20120302/ACLURM01 7887.pdf.





n16.  See, e.g., Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's S.F. Field
Office (Mar. 2, 2011), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20111110/ACLURM01 1275.pdf
(memorializing community outreach conversations with an individual, including
conversations regarding opinions on U.S. involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan).





n17.  For example, memoranda from the San Francisco FBI Field Office suggest
that agents conducted follow-up surveillance through Internet searches of those
who attended mosque outreach events. See Eye on the FBI (2012), supra note 1;
Eye on the FBI (2011), supra note 1; Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of
Investigation's S.F. Field Office (Sept. 25, 2008), available at http://www.
aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20111110/ACLURM013443.pdf; Memorandum from the
Fed. Bureau of Investigation's S.F. Field Office (Oct. 10, 2007), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20111110/ACLURM013438. pdf; see also,
e.g., Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's Oakland Resident Agency
(Mar. 3, 2008), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20111110/ACLURM011160. pdf (documenting
community outreach to a Pakistani community organization, including organization
activities, and identities of those involved); Memorandum from Fed. Bureau of
Investigation's San Jose Resident Agency Office (Feb. 21, 2008), available at
http://www.aclu. org/files/fbimappingfoia/20120302/ ACLURM017992.pdf
(documenting a conversation conducted as part of mosque outreach and the agent's
subsequent search of the individual's name in various databases, including
Lexis-Nexis, the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), and a federal criminal
database); Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's San Jose Resident
Agency (May 11, 2007), available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20111110 /ACLURM012669.pdf (documenting
mosque outreach meeting, analyzing "demographics" of those in attendance,
representing twenty-seven Muslim community and religious organizations).





n18.  See Michael German, Stigmatizing Boston's Muslim Community is No Way to
Build Trust, Brennan Center (Oct. 9, 2014),
https://www.brennancenter.org/analysis/stigmatizing-boston-muslim-community-no-w
ay-build-trust ("FBI outreach efforts to Muslim communities have been less about
curbing violence than thinly veiled attempts to recruit informants and gather
intelligence."); see also Eric J. Miller, Role-Based Policing, 94 Calif. L. Rev.
617 (2006) (claiming that preventive police norms should be separated from
reactive investigative policing).





n19.  While the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS) tend to use the terminology of community engagement, government
agencies explicitly frame the efforts with Muslim communities as an extension of
their community policing efforts with other communities. See, e.g., Ctr. For
Human Rights & Global Justice, A Decade Lost: Locating Gender in U.S.
Counter-Terrorism 83-84 [hereinafter A Decade Lost]; see also infra Part II.A.





n20.  For the latest revelations regarding community engagement with Muslim
communities in Minneapolis-St. Paul, see, for example, Cora Currier, Spies Among
Us: How Community Outreach Programs to Muslims Blur Lines Between Outreach and
Intelligence, Intercept (Jan. 21, 2015),
https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/01/21/spies-among-us-community-outreach-
programs-muslims-blur-lines-outreach- intelligence; Michael Price, Community
Outreach or Intelligence Gathering?, Brennan Center (Jan. 29, 2015),
http://www.brennancenter.org/sites/default/
files/analysis/Community_Outreach_or_Intel ligence_Gathering.pdf.





n21.  While not all Arab and South Asians are Muslim, the federal government's
focus is on the Muslims within these communities.





n22.  Heather J. Davies et al., Police Exec. Research Forum, Protecting Your
Community From Terrorism: The Strategies for Local Law Enforcement Series: Vol.
2: Working With Diverse Communities 19-20 (2004); Press Release, FBI Nat'l Press
Office, Director Meets With Key U.S. Leaders of National Arab, Muslim, and Sikh
Organizations (Feb. 13, 2002),
http://www.fbi.gov/news/pressrel/press-releases/value-of-the-continuing-assistan
ce-from-the-arab-muslim-and-sikh-
communities-in-the-overall-effort-to-provide-greater-security-for-all-americans
[hereinafter Director Meets With Key U.S. Leaders] (framing these efforts as
helpful to garnering cooperation and support for national security law
enforcement, without mention of radicalization or extremism).





n23.  See, e.g., Community Engagement, Dep't Homeland Security (Aug. 27, 2014),
http://www. dhs.gov/community-engagement. For more on the DHS Office for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL) see Margo Schlanger, Offices of Goodness:
Influence Without Authority in Federal Agencies, 36 Cardozo L. Rev. 53 (2014).





n24.  See, e.g., Press Release, Dep't of Justice, Office of Pub. Affairs,
Attorney General Holder Announces Pilot Program to Counter Violent Extremists
(Sept. 15, 2014), http://www.justice.
gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-holder-announces-pilot-program-counter-violent-extre
mists; Spencer Ackerman, Obama Administration Launches Program to Combat
Radicalization, The Guardian (Sept. 15, 2014, 5:18 PM),
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/sep/15/obama-administration-american-musli
ms-radicalization; Tamara Audi & Miriam Jordan, U.S. Engages With Muslims, Wall
Street J. (Nov. 13, 2014, 10:42 PM),
www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-engages-with-muslims-1415936525; Shelley Murphy, Boston
to Host Anti-Extremist Pilot Program, Boston Globe (Sept. 24, 2014),
http://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2014/09/23/boston-site-program-prevent-resident
s-from-joining-extremist- groups/YpEpq2cYvITZ6u8AFkbarL/story. html; Eric
Schmitt, U.S. Is Trying to Counter ISIS' Efforts to Lure Alienated Young
Muslims, N.Y. Times (Oct. 4, 2014),
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/05/us/us-is-trying-to-counter-isiss-efforts-to-lu
re-alienated-young- muslims.html.





n25.  See John P. Crank, Watchman and Community: Myth and Institutionalization
in Policing, 28 Law & Soc'y Rev. 325, 342 (1994) (arguing that community
policing reflects conservative and liberal ideas of crime control). Until
recently, scholars have largely, if cursorily, promoted community engagement
efforts as a welcome government initiative to get to know Muslim communities, a
new constituency of great public interest and concern. See, e.g., Nicole J.
Henderson et al., Vera Inst. of Justice, Law Enforcement & Arab American
Community Relations After September 11, 2001, at 19-20 (2006); Matthew C.
Waxman, National Security Federalism in the Age of Terror, 64 Stan. L. Rev. 289,
347-48 (2012); cf. Allison T. Chappell & Sarah A. Gibson, Community Policing and
Homeland Security Policing: Friend or Foe, 20 Crim. Just. Pol'y Rev. 327, 327-31
(2009) (surveying arguments for and against the compatibility of community
policing and homeland security); David A. Harris, Law Enforcement and
Intelligence Gathering in Muslim and Immigrant Communities After 9/11, 34 N.Y.U.
Rev. L. & Soc. Change 123, 130 (2010) (arguing that government informant
initiatives have gone too far and caused some Muslim communities to feel
"betrayed"). New critical scholarship has emerged. Aziz Z. Huq has questioned
whether government partnerships can produce national security benefits in the
way prevailing accounts suggest. Aziz Z. Huq, The Social Production of National
Security, 98 Cornell L. Rev. 637, 705-08 (2013). Huq also questions the tension
between community policing and intelligence-led policing in the national
security context. Id. at 697-701; see also Int'l Ass'n of Chiefs of Police,
National Summit on Intelligence: Gathering, Sharing, and Use After 9-11, at 7
(2008) (emphasizing a "close connection between intelligence-led policing ...
and community policing" because intelligence-led policing "can take advantage of
the partnerships built through community policing ...") (internal quotation
marks omitted). Sahar F. Aziz has critiqued what she calls counterterrorism
community policing (CCP) on the grounds that in its embrace of
counterradicalization, CCP departs from the proven practices of community
policing. Sahar F. Aziz, Policing Terrorists in the Community, 5 Harv. Nat'l
Security J. 147, 175-76 (2014). Relatedly, Sam Rascoff has flagged Establishment
Clause concerns implicated by government counterradicalization. Samuel J.
Rascoff, Establishing Official Islam? The Law and Strategy of
Counter-Radicalization, 64 Stan. L. Rev. 125, 162 (2012).





n26.  This attempt is responsive to Rachel A. Harmon's call that scholars of
policing move beyond a singular focus on constitutional constraint and harm to
study more holistically "what harms policing produces, what kinds of policing
are too harmful, and what kinds are harm efficient." Rachel A. Harmon, The
Problem of Policing, 110 Mich. L. Rev. 761, 763 (2012). Scholars should
establish "theoretical accounts of what the relevant harms are and how the harms
should be measured, and empirical work measuring and comparing harms and
policing efficacy." Id. at 793. While this Article assumes that the threat posed
by al Qaeda-inspired terrorism is distorted and oversized in public discourse
and government policy, it is largely agnostic on a key benchmark - the extent of
the threat posed by al Qaeda-inspired terrorism - against which harm efficiency
might be measured.





n27.  There is also a call for deradicalization programs. See John G. Horgan,
De-Radicalization Programs Offer Hope in Countering Terrorism, L.A. Times (Feb.
13, 2015, 8:54 PM), http://www.latimes.
com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-0215-horgan-terrorist-deradicalization-20150215-story.ht
ml (stating that deradicalization programs "seek to change how former terrorists
think").





n28.  Some have linked counterradicalization's focus on culture to
counterinsurgency's focus on the same. E.g., Arun Kundnani, The Muslims Are
Coming! Islamophobia, Extremism, and the Domestic War on Terror 220 (2014);
Aziz, supra note 25, at 223.





n29.  For example, alongside the new community engagement initiatives, DOJ has
initiated new prosecutions against American Muslims allegedly attempting to
support the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). See, e.g., Eric Tucker &
Sadie Gurman, Islamic State Recruits Broadly, Not Just Fighters, Yahoo! (Dec.
16, 2014, 11:20 AM),
http://news.yahoo.com/islamic-state-recruits-broadly-not-just-fighters-061122291
.html; Colorado Teen Shannon Conley's Support of ISIS Raises Alarm About
American Jihadists, CBS News (Sept. 10, 2014, 10:02 AM), www.cbsnews.com/
news/colorado-teen-shannon-conleys-support-of-isis-raises-alarm-about-american-
jihadists; Rochester Man Mufid A. Elfgeeh Accused of Supporting ISIS Militants,
NBC News (Sept. 16, 2014, 4:44 PM),
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/isis-terror/rochester-man-mufid-elfgeeh-accused
-supporting-isis-militants-n204941; see also Letter from ACLU et al. to Lisa O.
Monaco, Assistant to the President for Homeland Sec. & Deputy Nat'l Sec. Adviser
(Dec. 18, 2014) available at
http://www.muslimadvocates.org/files/Countering-Violent-Extremism.pdf.





n30.  See Huq, supra note 25, at 697-701 (framing the tension as between
community and intelligence-led policing). While one might view this tension as
inherent to policing, this does not render the tension any less worthy of study.





n31.  See, e.g., David Alan Sklansky, Democracy and the Police 116-17 (2008);
Steve Herbert, Citizens, Cops, and Power: Recognizing the Limits of Community 65
(2006).





n32.  I do not take a case study approach because there is no holistically
developed account of a particular locality's experience of community policing.
Government accounts are typically quite broad and do not offer much in the way
of detail; community accounts are spare.





n33.  Amna Akbar, Policing "Radicalization," 3 U.C. Irvine L. Rev. 809, 854
(2013).





n34.  I use the term racialization knowing that it imperfectly describes the
shape and nature of the stigma that has attached to American Muslim communities
after 9/11. See infra Part II.





n35.  A few notes on vocabulary are in order. Community engagement is a broad
term, encompassing government programs of various stripes, with different
communities, and on different issues. My focus is on federal law enforcement's
post-9/11 efforts to engage Muslim communities.

   I use the term community policing to refer to the theories and practices
vetted in the ordinary criminal context, and community engagement for the
theories and practices in the national security context. By using the language
of community engagement, I do not mean to detract from the way the Article
positions community engagement as a policing technique.

   I use the concepts of radicalization and violent extremism, and
counterradicalization and countering violent extremism (CVE), interchangeably -
the distinctions are not important for purposes of this Article - and in
reference to their discursive constructs. (In other words, in referring to
radicalization, I am not referring to a fixed process by which individuals
become terrorists, but rather to how that process is understood, with a focus on
government accounts.) The distinctions often collapse given CVE is often defined
in reference to radicalization. See, e.g., Nat'l Counterterrorism Ctr.,
Countering Violent Extremism: A Guide for Practitioners and Analysts 3 (May
2014) (defining CVE to include "programs and policies intended [] to prevent
individuals and groups from radicalizing and mobilizing to commit violence").





n36.  See David Cole & Jules Lobel, Less Safe Less Free: Why America Is Losing
the War on Terror 30 (2007) ("At home, the [Bush] administration has ... invoked
the preventive paradigm as it has reshaped the nation's laws and adopted
aggressive law enforcement and intelligence-gathering practices.").





n37.  E.g., Sameer Ahmed et al., Ctr. for Human Rights & Global Justice and
Asian Am. Legal Def. & Educ. Fund, Under the Radar: Muslims Deported, Detained,
and Denied on Unsubstantiated Terrorism Allegations (2011), http://aaldef.org/
UndertheRadar.pdf; Muneer I. Ahmad, A Rage Shared by Law: Post-September 11
Racial Violence as Crimes of Passion, 92 Calif. L. Rev. 1259 (2004).





n38.  See generally Jacques Derrida, Force de Loi: Le Fondement Mystique De
L'Aurite [Force of Law: The "Mystical Foundation of Authority], 11 Cardozo L.
Rev. 920, 1007 (1990) ("The police invent the law, they make themselves
"rechtsetzend,' "lawmaking,' legislative, each time law is indeterminate enough
to give them the chance.").





n39.  The Obama administration tends to employ the language of violent
extremism, rather than radicalization. Rascoff, supra note 25, at 146 n.93
(noting the administration's preference for the term "violent extremism" when
discussing counterradicalization policies). In theory, the violent extremism
approach is clearer in its focus on violent acts rather than dissident
ideologies. But both frameworks evoke and rely on similar ideas of prevention,
in practice focusing scrutiny on Muslim communities' religious and political
cultures. For an example of how the terms are effectively conflated, see Joseph
I. Lieberman & Susan M. Collins, A Ticking Time Bomb: Counterterrorism Lessons
From the U.S. Government's Failure to Prevent the Fort Hood Attack 17 (2011),
available at http://www.hsgac.senate.gov//
imo/media/doc/Fort_Hood/FortHoodReport.pdf?attempt=2 ("The process by which an
individual transitions to a violent Islamist extremist is known as
radicalization.").





n40.  See, e.g., Violent Islamist Extremism: Government Efforts to Defeat It:
Hearing Before the S. Comm. on Homeland Sec. & Gov't, 110th Cong. 304-12 (2007)
(prepared statement of John Miller, Assistant Dir., Office of Pub. Affairs FBI);
Working With Communities to Disrupt Terror Plots: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on
Intelligence, Info. Sharing, & Terrorism Risk Assessment of the H. Comm. on
Homeland Sec., 111th Cong. 7 (2010) [hereinafter Working With Communities
Hearing] (statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil
Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.); Exec. Office of the President, Empowering
Local Partners to Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States 2-3 (Aug.
2011), https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/
empowering_local_partners.pdf [hereinafter Empowering Local Partners]; Attorney
General Holder Meets With Muslim Leaders in Portland, Dep't of Justice, Office
of Pub. Affairs (Sept. 30, 2011),
http://www.justice.gov/opa/blog/attorney-general-holder-meets-muslim-leaders-por
tland. This is a newer phenomenon, as radicalization and counterradicalization
discourse have emerged and become mainstream in domestic national security
discourse. See Akbar, supra note 33, at 854-68. But see A Decade Lost, supra
note 19, at 83-84 (2011) (explaining that some U.S. government officials "reject
characterizing community-outreach activities as counter-terrorism measures.").





n41.  For a fuller accounting, see Akbar, supra note 33, at 811-13.





n42.  For the fate of the FBI's attempt to create reports for "right-wing" and
"left-wing" extremism, see id. at 823 n.44.





n43.  FBI Counterterrorism Div., The Radicalization Process: From Conversion to
Jihad 2 (2006).





n44.  Id. at 3. In 2003, a professor of psychology contributed to an issue of
the FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin with an article theorizing four stages of
"radicalization." See Randy Borum, Understanding the Terrorist Mind-Set, 72 FBI
L. Enforcement Bull. 7, 7-10 (2003) (arguing that "four observable stages appear
to frame a process of ideological development" for a terrorist).





n45.  Mitchell D. Silber & Arvin Bhatt, NYPD Intelligence Div., Radicalization
in the West: The Homegrown Threat 21 (2007).





n46.  Id.





n47.  Id. at 22-44.





n48.  Id. at 47-48 (all aspects of criminal activity, including "attack
planning," are substages of jihadization). Interestingly, the criminal act is
theorized to come with a very particular intent: "The ultimate objective for any
attack is always the same - to punish the West, overthrow the democratic order,
reestablish the Caliphate, and institute sharia." Id. at 45.





n49.  See e.g., Letter from Muslim Am. Civil Liberties Coal. to Raymond Kelly,
Police Comm'r, NYPD (Oct. 23, 2008) (urging New York Police Department (NYPD)
Commissioner to recognize the harmful racial stereotypes embedded in the NYPD
Report), available at http://www.brennan
center.org/sites/default/files/legacy/Justice/10.23.MACLC.pdf; Michael German,
Radically Wrong: A Counterproductive Approach to Counterterrorism, ACLU Blog
Rts. (Feb. 14, 2013, 10:52 AM),
https://www.aclu.org/blog/national-security-free-speech/radically-wrong-counterp
roduc tive-approach-counterterrorism (referring to counterterrorism policies
such as the one adopted by the NYPD as "flawed and wasteful").





n50.  But see, e.g., Marc Sageman, The Stagnation of Research on Terrorism,
Chron. Higher Educ. (Apr. 30, 2013),
http://chronicle.com/blogs/conversation/2013/04/30/the-stagnation-of-research-on
-terrorism ("No consensus exists about [radicalization] indicators.").





n51.  See Akbar, supra note 33, at 811-12; see also Arun Kundnani,
Radicalisation: The Journey of a Concept, 54 Race & Class 3, 5-6 (2012).





n52.  See Akbar, supra note 33, at 821-28 and accompanying text. Recently, DHS
awarded the International Associates of Chiefs of Police a $ 700,000 grant "to
develop training on how to prevent, respond to and recover from acts of
terrorism" and "sponsored exercises in seven cities ... to improve communication
between local law enforcement and communities and to share ideas on how best to
build community resilience against violent extremism." Schmitt, supra note 24.





n53.  For example, in the recent push for community engagement, despite the
administration's ongoing emphasis that its focus is on all varieties of
extremism, the only details to emerge about the specific outreach efforts are
focused on Muslim communities. See; Murtaza Hussain et al., Is Your Child a
Terrorist? U.S. Government Questionnaire Rates Families at Risk for Extremism,
Intercept (Feb. 9, 2015),
https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/09/government-develops-questionnaire-
see-might-become-terrorist; Jana Winter, In Fight Against "Extremists," the
Enemy Proves Elusive, Intercept (Feb. 18, 2015),
https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/18/fight-extremists-enemy-proves-allu
sive; see also Deepa Iyer & Linda Sarsour, Obama Wants to "Counter Violent
Extremism'. He Should Look Beyond Muslims, Guardian (Feb. 17, 2015, 06:15 AM),
http://www.
theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/feb/17/obama-counter-violent-extremism-confer
ence-muslims.





n54.  See Akbar, supra note 33, at 821 n.40.





n55.  Exec. Office of the President, National Security Strategy 8 (May 2010)
[hereinafter National Security Strategy],
http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/
rss_viewer/national_security_strategy.pdf; Exec. Office of the President,
National Strategy For Counterterrorism 2 (June 2011) [hereinafter Strategy for
Counterterrorism],
http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/counterterrorism _strategy.pdf.





n56.  Empowering Local Partners, supra note 40, at 1; Exec. Office of the
President, Strategic Implementation Plan for Empowering Local Partners to
Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States 8 (Dec. 2011),
https://www.whitehouse. gov/sites/default/files/sip-final.pdf [hereinafter
Strategic Implementation Plan].





n57.  Akbar, supra note 33, at 827; see also, e.g., Denis McDonough, Deputy
Nat'l Sec. Advisor, Remarks at ADAMS Center: Partnering With Communities to
Prevent Violent Extremism in America (Mar. 6, 2011), available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/03/
06/remarks-denis-mcdonough-deputy-national-security-advisor-president-prepa.





n58.  Samantha Masunaga, Homeland Security Head Aims to Build Trust in L.A.
Muslim Community, L.A. Times (Nov. 13, 2014, 8:35 PM),
http://www.latimes.com/local/california/la-me-1114-mosque-visit-20141114-story.h
tml; Murphy, supra note 24; Schmitt, supra note 24; ("The goal is to reach out
to schools, health care providers, and community groups to get their help in
monitoring and deterring the radicalization of young people who may be
susceptible to recruitment."); Julie Hirschfeld Davis, Obama Urges Global United
Front Against Extremist Groups Like ISIS, , N.Y. Times (Feb. 18, 2015),
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/19/us/obama-to-outline-nonmilitary-plans-to-count
er-groups-like-isis.html; Winter, supra note 53.





n59.  For a fuller accounting, see Akbar, supra note 33, at 854.





n60.  Id.





n61.  See, e.g., Martin Innes, Policing Uncertainty: Countering Terror Through
Community Intelligence and Democratic Policing, 605 Annals Am. Acad. Pol. & Soc.
Sci. 222, 232 (2006) (community contacts "develop a "community intelligence
feed' about the activities of individuals and groups in these communities of
interest to the police").





n62.  The focus here is on federal efforts, but local police departments have
also experimented with mapping. The NYPD created extensive maps of Muslim
communities in the New York-New Jersey area, and the LAPD announced a plan to
map Muslim communities in 2007, but the initiative was canceled after it
elicited public outcry. See Akbar, supra note 33, at 855-59, 855 n.177.





n63.  FBI, Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide §§4.3.3.2.1, 4.3.2.2.2
(2008), available at http://vault.fbi.gov/administrative-policy-procedures
(follow "FBI Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide (DIOG)" hyperlink;
then follow "2008 Version" hyperlink). The heavily redacted 2011 Domestic
Intelligence and Operations Guide (DIOG), including the 2012 updated version,
does not seem to include references to this power to map. FBI, Domestic
Investigations and Operations Guide (2011), available at http://vault.fbi.gov/
administrative-policy-procedures (follow "FBI Domestic Investigations and
Operations Guide (DIOG)" hyperlink; then follow "2011 Version" hyperlink). These
maps are not limited to Muslim communities. Eye on the FBI (2011), supra note 1
(summarizing documents obtained by FOIA requests, including FBI mapping of
"Black Separatist" groups, as well as Chinese, Russian, and Salvadorian
communities).





n64.  See Eye on the FBI (2012), supra note 1; Eye on the FBI (2011), supra note
1; Trevor Aaronson, The Informants, Mother Jones (July 29, 2011, 6:44 PM),
http://www.motherjones. com/politics/2011/08/fbi-terrorist-informants. The
decision to map seems to draw simply from the concentration of Muslims. A 2009
Detroit field office memorandum opening a "domain assessment" provides as its
basis that "because Michigan has a large Middle-Eastern and Muslim population,
it is prime territory for attempted radicalization and recruitment by these
terrorist groups." Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation's Detroit
Field Office (July 6, 2009), available at
https://www.aclu.org/files/fbimappingfoia/20111019/ACLURM0 11609.pdf.





n65.  Internal Memo from the Fed. Bureau of Investigation Regarding
Implementation of Specialized Community Outreach Team 6 (Jan 7, 2009) (on file
with author).





n66.  See generally Sinnar, supra note 6.





n67.  Agents draw their authority from the force of the badge, the uniform, and
the law, as experienced in communities made vulnerable by their race, gender,
class, or immigration status. The force speaks with specificity to American
Muslims - as it does to others possessing various marginalized, policed
identities - based on their particular vulnerabilities in the polity. See Akbar,
supra note 33.





n68.  Kundnani, supra note 28, at 214. See Sinnar, supra note 6, at 50-51
(compiling reports that FBI agents have "approached people at work, where they
could not refuse to cooperate without eliciting suspicion and fear of reprisal
from employers already wary of Muslims," "pressured some individuals to submit
to questioning immediately, despite their stated desire to obtain a lawyer
first," "knocked on people's doors late in the evening or at night, which
heightened the interviewees' perception of intimidation," "misrepresented the
purpose of an interview," and "told others that if they refused to submit to an
interview, the agents would arrest them").





n69.  See, e.g., Ramzi Kassem, The Long Roots of the NYPD Spying Program, Nation
(June 13, 2012),
http://www.thenation.com/article/168376/long-roots-nypd-spying-program.





n70.  See, e.g., Sinnar, supra note 6, at 54-55, 62-80.





n71.  See, e.g., id. at 53-54.





n72.  On the range of informant relationships, and the issues therein, see
generally Alexandra Natapoff, Snitching: Criminal Informants and the Erosion of
American Justice (2009).





n73.  See generally id.





n74.  See Joseph Goldstein, New York Police Recruit Muslims to Be Informers,
N.Y. Times (May 10, 2014),
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/11/nyregion/new-york-police-recruit-muslims-to-be
-informers.html.





n75.  E.g., Declarations of Craig Monteilh Submitted by Plaintiffs in Support of
Their Oppositions to Motions to Dismiss at 10, Fazaga v. FBI, 884 F. Supp. 2d
1022 (C.D. Cal. 2012) (No. 11-00301) [hereinafter Declarations of C. Monteilh]
("Agent Armstrong told me that the FBI had every mosque - the ones I went to and
the ones I didn't go to - under surveillance.").





n76.  Id. at 7 ("Agent Allen told me, "We want to get as many files on this
community as possible.'... They said they were building files in areas with the
biggest concentrations of Muslim Americans - New York; the Dearborn, Michigan
area; and the Orange County/Los Angeles area.").





n77.  See, e.g., Emily Berman, Brennan Ctr. for Justice, Domestic Intelligence:
New Powers, New Risks 8-9 (2011); see also Michael Greenberg, New York: The
Police and the Protestors, N.Y. Rev. Books (Oct. 11, 2012),
www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2012/oct/11/ new-york-police-and-protesters
[hereinafter Greenberg, The Police and the Protestors]; Michael Greenberg, The
Problem of the New York Police, N.Y. Rev. Books (Oct. 25, 2012),
www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2012/oct/25/problem-new-york-police.





n78.  See, e.g., Kiran Khalid, Iowa Muslim Leader: Law Enforcement Betrayed Us,
CNN (Feb. 3, 2012, 8:48 PM),
http://inamerica.blogs.cnn.com/2012/02/03/iowa-muslim-leader-law-enforcement-bet
rayed-us.





n79.  See Declarations of C. Monteilh, supra note 75, at 18; see also Ctr. for
Human Rights & Global Justice, Targeted and Entrapped: Manufacturing the
"Homegrown Threat" in the United States 2, 16 (2011); Petra Bartosiewicz, The
FBI Stings Muslims, The Nation, July 2-9, 2012, at 17, 19.

   To consider the fluid and broad nature of the role an informant might play in
collecting and testing opinions, consider Craig Monteilh. See This American
Life: The Convert, Chicago Public Radio (Aug. 10, 2012), available at
http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/ episode/471/the-convert.
Monteilh worked undercover as an FBI informant for a little over a year,
conducting surveillance in ten mosques in Los Angeles and Orange County. He was
instructed to "gather information on Muslims' charitable giving, attend Muslim
fundraising events, collect information on travel plans ... attend lectures ...
attend classes and dawn prayers at mosques, track followers of extremist
jihadist websites, elicit people's views on extremist scholars and thinkers,
work out with Muslims he met at a local gym, and gather any compromising
information about Muslims that [the FBI] could use against them to persuade them
to become informants." Fazaga v. FBI, 884 F. Supp. 2d 1022, 1032 (C.D. Cal.
2012); see also Declarations of C. Monteilh, supra note 75, at 6-7 ("My handlers
told me to look for and identify to them people with certain backgrounds or
traits, such as anyone who studied fiqh, who openly criticized U.S. foreign
policy, including the U.S. military's presence in Muslim countries; who had any
kind of military training; who was an imam or sheikh; who went on Hajj; who
played a leadership role at a mosque or in the Muslim community; who expressed
sympathies to mujahideen; who was a quiet loner; who was a "white' Muslim; or
who went to a madrassa overseas."). He was also instructed to "investigate
anyone who had the attention of the youth or influence over young people to see
if they were radicalizing them" and to ask community members about certain
verses of the Qur'an, and to elicit reactions about U.S. foreign policy. Id. at
10, 16 (Monteilh was told that "people's reactions to them would help discern
who was and was not a threat ... that discussions about these verses would
elicit responses that could be used to justify additional surveillance
measures."). Monteilh's FBI handlers allegedly told him they "would usually
bring people in to an FBI interview only after I had obtained some useful
background on the person ... some embarrassing personal information or a
statement of political beliefs ... [to] provide leverage to get the person to
provide information." Id. at 21. Monteilh's work for the FBI was eventually cut
short after a mosque at which he was stationed pursued a restraining order to
bar him from the mosque. Id. at 26.





n80.  See Human Rights Watch & The Human Rights Inst. at Columbia Law Sch.,
Illusion of Justice: Human Rights Abuses in U.S. Terrorism Prosecutions 21-59
(2014) [hereinafter Illusion of Justice]. In a number of cases, the FBI and NYPD
have sent informants into mosques and community institutions not only to gather
information but also to see who responds, and how, to their speech. See
Declarations of C. Monteilh, supra note 75, at 3, 12, 24, 32, 44; Ctr. for Human
Rights & Global Justice, supra note 79, at 34; see also Bartosiewicz, supra note
79, at 17. The FBI denies it has conducted surveillance on the sole basis of
race, ethnicity, or First Amendment protected activity. See, e.g., FBI Nat'l
Press Office, FBI Response to ACLU Report (2011),
http://www.fbi.gov/news/pressrel/press-releases/fbi-response-to-aclu-report.





n81.  See, e.g., Adam Goldman & Matt Apuzzo, Informant: NYPD Paid Me to "Bait'
Muslims, Associated Press (Oct. 23, 2012),
www.ap.org/Content/AP-In-The-News/2012/Informant-NYPD-paid-me-to-bait-Muslims.
But see Declaration of Stephen Hoban, Handschu v. Special Servs. Div., No. 71
Civ. 2203 (S.D.N.Y. May 16, 2013).





n82.  See Illusion of Justice, supra note 80, at 21-59; id. at 22 ("Instead of
beginning a sting at the point where the target had expressed an interest in
engaging in illegal conduct, many terrorism sting operations that we
investigated facilitated or invented the target's willingness to act before
presenting the tangible opportunity to do so."); cf. Wadie E. Said, The
Terrorist Informant, 85 Wash. L. Rev. 687, 712 (2010). There have even been
instances when the government agent "appears to have taken on the role of a
religious authority figure for a target who was searching for guidance about
Islam because he was young, a recent convert, or socially outside the mainstream
Muslim community due to race or ethnicity." Illusion of Justice, supra note 80,
at 41-45. But see id. at 21 n.30 (noting the four exceptions to the
non-sting-inspired criminally prosecuted plots as the Boston Marathon bombing in
2013, Faisal Shahzad's attempt to bomb Times Square in 2010, Najibullah Zazi's
attempt to bomb the New York City subway in 2009, and a shooting at the El Al
counter at LAX in 2002).





n83.  Diala Shamas & Nermeen Arastu, Mapping Muslims: NYPD Spying and Its Impact
on American Muslims 40 (2013); id. at 27 (documenting an instance in which NYPD
detectives offered a college student "400 or 500 dollars a month" to "sit[] in
front of [his] computer and look at what people [were] doing" (internal
quotation marks omitted)); Goldman & Apuzzo, supra note 81; Ramzi Kassem,
Praying While Muslim, Nation, July 2-9, 2012, at 25; see also Racial Profiling
and the Use of Suspect Classifications in Law Enforcement Policy: Hearing Before
the Subcomm. on the Constitution, Civil Rights, & Civil Liberties of the H.
Comm. on the Judiciary, 111th Cong. 62-63 (2010) (statement of Farhana Khera,
President & Executive Director, Muslim Advocates) (stating that FBI monitoring
of Internet use chills First Amendment protected activities for Muslim
Americans).





n84.  See FBI Counterterrorism Div., supra note 43, at 7 ("Internet chat rooms
... [are a] virtual arena [that] allows vulnerable individuals from around the
world to discuss Islamic doctrine. Radicalization is encouraged both directly
and indirectly on the Internet: indirectly through extremist propaganda
(inflammatory speeches, videos, etc.) and directly through chat rooms and
bulletin boards."); Silber & Bhatt, supra note 45, at 22 ("The Internet, with
its thousands of extremist websites and chat-rooms, is a virtual incubator of
its own. In fact, many of the extremists began their radical conversion while
researching or just surfing in the cyber world."); see also Kassem, supra note
83 (discussing NYPD email monitoring of a student group at a state university).





n85.  Illusion of Justice, supra note 80, at 26; see Kassem, supra note 83.





n86.  See Emily Berman, Regulating Domestic Intelligence Collection, 71 Wash. &
Lee L. Rev. 3, 26-30 (2014); see also Berman, supra note 77, at 26-30.





n87.  Office of the Att'y Gen., The Attorney General's Guidelines for Domestic
FBI Operations 17 (2008); FBI, Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide 4-13
to 4-14, 5-2, 6-7 (2011) [hereinafter FBI DOIG 2011].





n88.  Large sections of the assessment-related rules are redacted. FBI DOIG
2011, supra note 87, at 5-4 to 5-6, 5-9 to 5-20, 5-22 to 5-37; see also Charlie
Savage, F.B.I. Agents Get Leeway to Push Privacy Bounds, N.Y. Times (June 12,
2011), http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/13/us/13fbi.html [hereinafter Savage,
F.B.I. Agents]; Charlie Savage, F.B.I. Focusing on Security Over Ordinary Crime,
N.Y. Times, Aug. 24, 2011, at A16 (finding that between 2009 and 2011, the FBI
opened 82,325 assessments, 42,888 of which were to see whether people were
terrorists or spies; the vast majority of assessments were closed out "without
finding information that justified a more intensive inquiry."). The 2008
Domestic and Investigations Operations Guide (DIOG) was similarly lenient as to
the permissible role of First Amendment activity in the opening of an
assessment. FBI, Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide (2008), available
at http:// documents.nytimes.com/the-new-operations-manual-from-the-f-b-I;
Berman, supra note 77, at 23-25. As with the 2008 DIOG, in the 2011 DIOG, the
section on "undisclosed participation" by "confidential human sources" -
informants - is largely redacted. FBI DOIG 2011, supra note 87, at 16-2 to
16-11.





n89.  In addition to taking advantage of easily obtained consent, the techniques
rely on the government's easy access to massive amounts of electronic
information. See Akbar, supra note 33; Berman, supra note 86, at 16.





n90.  See Marc Ambinder, The New Term for the War on Terror, Atlantic (May 20,
2010, 9:58 AM),
http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2010/05/the-new-term-for-the-war-on-
terror/56969.





n91.  Empowering Local Partners, supra note 40, at 2, 8 ("We must use a wide
range of good governance programs ... that may help prevent radicalization that
leads to violence. This necessitates a whole-of-government approach, based on
expertise of our traditional national security departments and agencies, as well
as other parts of the government, including those with experience in addressing
community safety issues."). The White House's 2010 National Security Strategy
also mentioned, if only briefly, the importance of community engagement to
counter radicalization and violent extremism. National Security Strategy, supra
note 55, at 19, 29, 37; see also Strategy for Counterterrorism, supra note 55,
at 6, 9-12 (2011).





n92.  Strategic Implementation Plan, supra note 56, at 7-21.





n93.  See Huq, supra note 25, at 658-63.





n94.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 10 (statement of Margo
Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.);
see also Carolee Walker, U.S. Police Work to Build Trust With Muslim
Populations, U.S. Embassy (Feb. 5, 2007), http://iipdigital.
usembassy.gov/st/english/article/2007/02/20070205144855bcreklaw 0.714657.html.





n95.  See, e.g., Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 4
("Community engagement efforts ... . focus on helping communities understand
homeland security or law enforcement policies, practices, and methods. Others
help those who execute these policies and methods interact respectfully with the
communities with which they deal.") (statement of Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman,
Comm. on Homeland Sec.); id. at 7 ("Our engagement efforts involve encouraging
all Americans in many ethnicities, religions, and so on to take an active role
in their Government, to ensure that the Government is responsive to and protects
the rights of all Americans... . This kind of engagement, soliciting the views
and explaining policies from communities seeking to address complaints and
grievances, is a basic part of good and responsible Government.") (statement of
Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland
Sec.).





n96.  See, e.g., Empowering Local Partners, supra note 40, at 2-3 ("The best
defenses against violent extremist ideologies are well-informed and equipped
families, local communities, and local institutions. Their awareness of the
threat and willingness to work with one another and government is part of our
long history of community-based initiatives and partnerships dealing with a
range of public safety challenges. Communities are best placed to recognize and
confront the threat because violent extremists are targeting their children,
families, and neighbors. Rather than blame particular communities, it is
essential that we find ways to help them protect themselves. To do so, we must
continue to ensure that all Americans understand that they are an essential part
of our civic life and partners in our efforts to combat violent extremist
ideologies and organizations that seek to weaken our society."). See also
Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 9 ("Our engagement efforts
build crucial channels of communication, both educating us about the concerns of
communities affected by DHS activities and giving those communities reliable
information about policies and procedures. They build trust by facilitating
resolution of legitimate grievances; they reinforce a sense of shared American
identity and community; and they demonstrate the collective ownership of the
homeland security project.") (statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil
Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.); Testimony of Secretary
Napolitano Before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs, "Eight Years After 9/11: Confronting the Terrorist Threat to the
Homeland," Dep't Homeland Sec. (Sept. 30, 2009),
http://www.dhs.gov/news/2009/09/30/secretary-napolitanos-testimony-eight-years-a
fter-911-confronting-terrorist-threat ("It is important to note that such
engagement with the many key groups which with CRCL holds dialogues - such as
Arab and Somali American communities, as well as Muslim and Sikh leaders - is
important in and of itself as a matter of civil rights protection and smart,
effective law enforcement. But by helping communities more fully engage with
their government, DHS is also preempting alienation and creating buy-in to the
broader shared responsibility of homeland security.").





n97.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 13 (statement of Brett
Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI).





n98.  Id. at 14.





n99.  The FBI lists the following as its "Arab/Muslim/Sikh/South Asian-American
Outreach" partners: the All Dulles Area Muslim Society, Allied Media Corp
Multicultural Communication, American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC),
Arab American Institute, Muslim Advocates, Muslim Public Affairs Council (MPAC),
Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund, and the Sikh Coalition. Our
Outreach Partners, FBI
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/partnerships_and_outreach/community_out
reach/outreach_contacts (last visited Mar. 18, 2015); Laurie Goodstein, U.S.
Muslims Take on ISIS' Recruiting Machine, N.Y. Times (Feb. 19, 2015),
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/20/us/muslim-leaders-in-us-seek-to-counteract-ext
remist-recruiters.html. The extent of these partnerships is unclear. See Working
With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 13 (statement of Brett Hovington,
Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI). Recent efforts to
facilitate communication included the FBI briefing these organizations about
impending changes to FBI guidelines before the changes were implemented. Savage,
F.B.I. Agents, supra note 88.





n100.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 13 (statement of
Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI);
Kundnani, supra note 28, at 220-21. MPAC plays a lead role as a partner in these
efforts. See MPAC Coordinates a Meeting With LA Homeland Security Chief, Muslim
Pub. Affairs Council (Feb. 19, 2003), www.mpac.org/
programs/government-relations/mpac-coordinates-a-meeting-with-la-homeland-securi
ty-chief.php; MPAC, UK Consul, Law Enforcement Officials Discuss Partnership,
Muslim Pub. Affairs Council (Aug. 14, 2006),
http://www.mpac.org/programs/government-relations/
mpac-uk-consul-law-enforcement-officials-discuss-partnership.php; Matt
Krasnowski, Muslims Find Helping Law Enforcement Helps Their Future, Muslim Pub.
Affairs Council (Oct. 8, 2005),
http://www.mpac.org/programs/government-relations/muslims-find-helping-law-enfor
cement-helps-their-future.php; MPAC and Law Enforcement Hold Joint News
Conference on Cooperation, Partnership, Muslim Pub. Affairs Council (May 23,
2003), http://www.mpac.
org/programs/government-relations/mpac-and-law-enforcement-hold-joint-news-confe
rence- on-cooperation-partnership.php; Sireen Sawaf, Gov't Relations Dir., S.
Cal. Muslim Pub. Affairs Counsel, Radicalization, Information Sharing and
Community Outreach: Protecting the Homeland from Homegrown Terror (Apr. 5,
2007), available at
http://hsc-democrats.house.gov/SiteDocuments/20070405120720-29895.pdf; Salam
Al-Marayati, Exec. Dir., Muslim Pub. Affairs Council, Assessing and Address-ing
the Threat: Identifying the Role of the National Commission on the Prevention of
Violent Radicalization and Homegrown Terrorism (June 14, 2007), available at
http://chsdemocrats.house.gov/SiteDocuments/20070614135307-44582. pdf. Yet even
MPAC has spoken out against counterradicalization. Alejandro J. Beutel, Muslim
Pub. Affairs Council, Building Bridges to Strengthen America 36 (2010),
http://www.mpac.org/assets/docs/publications/building-bridges/MPAC-Building-
Bridges - Complete_Unabridged_Paper.pdf ("Law enforcement must focus its
energies on counterterrorism (i.e. criminal activities), not
counterradicalization."). But see Muslim Pub. Affairs Council, Safe Spaces
Initiative: Tools for Developing Healthy Communities (2014),
http://www.mpac.org/assets/docs/publications/MPAC-Safe-Spaces-full.pdf.





n101.  See id.





n102.  Speech, Eric Holder, U.S. Att'y Gen., Speech at American Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee's 30th Anniversary National Convention (June 4,
2010), www.justice.gov/ag/speeches/ 2010/ag-speech-100604.html; Jerome P.
Bjelopera, Cong. Research Serv., R42553, Countering Violent Extremism in the
United States 5-9 (2014); Aziz, supra note 25, at 17-22.





n103.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 13 (statement of
Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI).





n104.  Id. at 15-16; Speech, Eric Holder, supra note 102.





n105.  Strategic Implementation Plan, supra note 56, at 8 (2011); Attorney
General Holder Meets With Muslim Leaders in Portland, supra note 40; see also
Speech, Eric Holder, supra note 10 ("Just this past Tuesday, nearly a third of
the nation's United States Attorneys gathered in Washington for an unprecedented
meeting to work on this issue - and to identify additional ways to strengthen
outreach to Muslim and Arab-American communities."); Steven M. Dettelbach,
Ohio's Muslim, Arab Neighbors, Cleveland.com (Apr. 29, 2011, 5:27 PM),
http://www.cleveland.com/ opinion/index.ssf/2011/04/ohios_muslim_arab_
neighbors_de.html (stating that the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of
Ohio has personally met with "hundreds" of Muslims in Northern Ohio as part of
counterradicalization and communication/collaboration-building efforts); Jenny
A. Durkan, Divisions Play Into Hands of Extremists,Crosscut.com (Apr. 6, 2011),
http:// crosscut.com/2011/04/06/op-ed/20752/Divisions-play-into-hands-extremists
(stating that the U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington has met
with Muslim communities as a way to counter extremism); Benjamin B. Wagner,
United Front Is Best Against Terrorism, Merced Sun-Star (Apr. 9, 2011),
http://www.mercedsunstar.com/2011/04/09/1845500_benjamin
-b-wagner-united-front.html?rh=1 (stating that the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of California has met with Muslim community members as a way to counter
radicalization and build communication, trust, and collaboration); Jim Letten,
Embracing the Diversity of Our Nation, nola.com (July 31, 2011, 7:46 AM),
http://www.nola.com/opinions/index.ssf/2011/07/
embracing_the_diversity_of_our.html (stating that the U.S. Attorney for the
Eastern District of Louisiana has met with Muslim community members for ten
years now, partly to prevent teen radicalization through Internet propaganda);
Outreach and Prevention, Offs. U.S. Att'ys, http://
www.justice.gov/usao/briefing_room/crt/outreach.html (last visited Mar. 18,
2015) (discussing the U.S. Attorney for the District of Connecticut's engaging
in ongoing dialogue with Connecticut's Muslim, Arab, and South Asian (MASA)
communities, focused on concerns about government policies, workplace bias, and
religious accommodations). State parallels exist in this regard, as well. See,
e.g., NJ AG Holds First Muslim Outreach Meeting, WYNC (Sept. 5, 2012),
http://www. wnyc.org/story/235307-nj-ag-holds-first-muslim-outreach-meeting;
Samantha Henry, NJ Muslims, State Officials, Continue Outreach, NorthJersey.com
(June 5, 2013, 6:23 PM),
http://www.northjersey.com/news/nj-state-news/n-j-muslims-state-officials-contin
ue-outreach-1.619493.





n106.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 10 (adding that "U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), has held Naturalization
Information Sessions in these communities ... [and] officials from the Office of
Policy and the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs have met repeatedly with
members of these communities as well." (statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer
for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Department of Homeland Security)); see
also Ten Years After 9/11: A Report From the 9/11 Commission Chairman: Hearing
Before S. Comm. on Homeland Sec. & Gov't Affairs, 112th Cong. 211 (2011)
(prepared statement of Janet Napolitano, Secretary, Department of Homeland
Security).





n107.  See, e.g., Community Engagement, supra note 23; Working With Communities
Hearing, supra note 40, at 6 (statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil
Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.). See Denis McDonough, Deputy
Nat'l Sec. Advisor, Remarks at the ADAMS Center: Partnering with Communities to
Prevent Violent Extremism in America (Mar. 6, 2011), available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/03/06/remarks-denis-mcdonough-de
puty- national-security-advisor-president-prepa ("Because the federal government
cannot and should not be everywhere, we're expanding our coordination with state
and local governments, including law enforcement, which work directly with
communities every day.").





n108.  For example, since 2006, the FBI's Dallas Field Office has worked with
the nearby Arlington Police Department to hold regular meetings with Muslim
leaders. Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 16 (statement of
Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI).
See also, e.g., Governor Chris Christie Selects Edward Dickson as Next Director
of Homeland Security and Preparedness, N.J. Off. Governor (Feb. 9, 2012),
http://www.state.nj.us/governor/news/news/552012/approved/20120 209a.html; Deval
L. Patrick et al., The Commonwealth of Mass. Exec. Office of Pub. Safety & Sec.,
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts State Homeland Security Strategy 28-29 (Sept.
2007), available at http://www.boston.com/multimedia/news/2007/homeland_
security_strategy.pdf; Press Release, Houston Police Department, HPD Officer
Receives National Recognition (Sept. 30, 2005), available at
http://www.houstontx.gov/police/nr/2005/sep/ nr093005-3.htm; Press Release,
Houston Police Department, HPD Meets With Local Muslim Leaders (Feb. 13, 2006),
www.houstontx.gov/police/nr/2006/feb/nr021306-2.htm.





n109.  See Chappell & Gibson, supra note 25, at 336 (noting that community
policing initiatives are vulnerable to shifts in federal funding). The most
prominent local efforts take place in New York and Los Angeles. The NYPD's
outreach occurs through its Community Affairs Bureau, and specifically through
that bureau's New Immigration Outreach Unit. Community Affairs Bureau: New
Immigrant Outreach, N.Y. Police Dep't,
http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/html/community _affairs/community_affairs_new_immi
grant_outreach.shtml (last visited Mar. 18, 2015); see also Anita Khashu, Robin
Busch & Zainab Latif, Vera Inst. of Justice, Building Strong Police-Immigrant
Community Relations: Lessons from a New York City Project 7 (2005), available at
http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/Publications/Building_Pol ice Immigrant_Relations.pdf;
Davies et al., supra note 22, at 41-42. Concerns were raised that the CIA played
a role in the NYPD program. Matt Apuzzo & Adam Goldman, With CIA Help, NYPD
Moves Covertly in Muslim Areas, Associated Press (Aug. 23, 2011),
http://www.ap.org/
Content/AP-In-The-News/2011/With-CIA-help-NYPD-moves-covertly-in-Muslim-areas.

   The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and the Los Angeles Police
Department engage in community outreach. In 2007, L.A. County Sherriff Lou Baca
established a specific outreach unit for Muslims, dubbed the Muslim Community
Affairs Unit. L.A. Cnty. Sheriff's Dep't., Muslim Community Affairs Unit 3
(2010), available at http://shq.lasdnews.net/content/
uoa/MCA/MCAOverviewJan2010_LoRes.pdf (noting the unit is staffed by Muslim
officers). For a history of efforts in L.A., see The Extent of Radicalization in
the American Muslim Community and That Community's Response: Hearing Before the
H. Comm. on Homeland Sec., 112th Cong. 71 (2011) (statement of Lee Baca,
Sheriff, L.A. County), available at http://homeland.house.gov/
sites/homeland.house.gov/files/Testimony%20Baca_0.pdf; Violent Islamist
Extremism: The Role of Local Law Enforcement in Countering Violent Islamic
Extremism: Hearing Before the S. Comm. on Homeland Sec. & Gov't Affairs, 110th
Cong. 4 (2007) (statement of Michael P. Downing, Commanding Officer,
Counter-Terrorism/Criminal Intelligence Bureau, L.A. Police Dep't), available at
http://www.lapdonline.org/assets/pdf/Michael%20DowningTestimony forthe
U.S.Senate-Final.PDF; Counter-Terrorism and Special Operations Bureau (CTSOB),
L.A. Police Dep't, http://www.lapdonline.org/inside_the_lapd/content
_basic_view/6502 (last visited Mar. 18, 2015).





n110.  See, e.g., Price, supra note 20, at 5-7; Currier, supra note 20;
Kundnani, supra note 28, at 219.





n111.  Price, supra note 20, at 5-7; Kundnani, supra note 28, at 219; see also
Stevan Weine & Osman Ahmed, Building Resilience to Violent Extremism Among
Somali-Americans in Minneapolis-St. Paul (2012),
http://www.start.umd.edu/sites/default/files
/files/publications/Weine_BuildingResiliencetoViolentExt
remism_SomaliAmericans.pdf.





n112.  Price, supra note 20, at 5-7; Kundnani, supra note 28, at 219.





n113.  For a recent accounting of community engagement efforts, see U.S. Comm'n
on Civil Rights, Briefing Report: Federal Civil Rights Engagement with Arab and
Muslim American Communities Post 9/11, at 6, 33-37 (Sept. 2014),
http://www.usccr.gov/pubs/ ARAB_MUSLIM_9-30-14.pdf.





n114.  It could be argued that the relative lack of details on these community
engagement programs undermines the possibility of stigma attaching to Muslim
communities. That raises the question of how much, and what kind of, detail
about these programs translates into stigmatization. Separate and apart from
what is reported and what the public hears about, stigmatization occurs by
virtue of these contacts between Muslim communities and law enforcement. For an
argument about the expressive value of pretext interviews, see Sinnar, supra
note 6, at 54 ("The exchange that occurs in an interview signals the U.S.
government's beliefs as to what, or whom, it considers threatening.").





n115.  A 2010 FBI Policy Directive on community engagement was recently made
public. Corporate Policy Directive from Fed. Bureau of Investigation: Community
Outreach in Field Offices (2010) [hereinafter Community Outreach in Field
Offices], available at https://www.brennancenter.org/
sites/default/files/analysis/2010%20FBI%20Outreach%20Directive. pdf. The
Intercept recently reported the existence of 2013 guidelines for community
engagement which provide that the FBI "maintain "appropriate separate of
operational and outreach efforts.'" Currier, supra note 20. At the same time the
new guidance ""does not restrict coordination with operational divisions to
obtain a better understanding of the various violations (i.e. terrorism, drugs,
human trafficking, white collar crime, etc.) which may be impacting
communities.'" Id. While the Directive raises more questions than it answers, it
provides that community outreach is governed by the FBI's Domestic and
Investigations Operations Guide and other rules designed to regulate the use of
informants. See generally Community Outreach in Field Offices, supra note 115,
at 5; Price, supra note 20; Community Outreach in Field Offices, supra, at 5.





n116.  In 2010, Margo Schlanger suggested the newest approaches involve
transnational efforts with other countries, issue-specific engagement, promoting
partnerships with state and local governments, and youth participation. Working
With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 12 (statement of Margo Schlanger,
Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.).





n117.  In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, local police departments provided
support to Muslim communities in the face of hate crimes and backlash. See,
e.g., Davies et al., supra note 22, at 31-36 (mentioning efforts in Seattle and
Chicago); David Thacher, The Local Role in Homeland Security, 39 Law & Soc'y
Rev. 635, 647-66 (2005) (mentioning efforts in Dearborn). Over time, local and
state police departments have increasingly initiated community engagement with
MASA communities, often through encouragement by the federal government.





n118.  Davies et al., supra note 22, at 19-20.





n119.  Initiative to Combat Post-9/11 Discriminatory Backlash, U.S. Dep't Just.,
http://www.justice.gov/ crt/nordwg.php (last visited Mar. 18, 2015).





n120.  Countering Radicalization: Our Other Prevention Strategy, FBI.gov (May
10, 2007), http://www. fbi.gov/news/stories/2007/may/radical_051007; Director
Meets With Key U.S. Leaders, supra note 22; Starting a Conversation: Muslim
Youths See FBI Up Close, FBI (Aug. 18, 2006), http://
www.fbi.gov/news/stories/2006/august/newark_081806.





n121.  For example, the Atlanta, Georgia, office held a town hall at the Hamza
Center in Alpharetta, Georgia; the New Haven, Connecticut, office held town hall
meetings with a Pakistani-American group; the New York City field office spoke
at a town hall for the Pakistani community in Jackson Heights; and the Buffalo,
New York, field office hosted a town hall in partnership with the U.S.
Attorneys' Office and the local Muslim Public Affairs Council chapter. Attorney
General Holder Meets With Muslim Leaders in Portland, supra note 40; Starting a
Conversation, supra note 120; Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40,
at 14 (statement of Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm.
Relations Unit, FBI).





n122.  E.g., Eye on the FBI (2012), supra note 1, at 1; Eye on the FBI (2011),
supra note 1; Building Trust, FBI.gov (Oct. 2, 2006),
http://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/2006/october.





n123.  Sahar F. Aziz calls this deputizing of information gatherers in the
community. Aziz, supra note 25, at 196-202.





n124.  Fed. Bureau of Investigation Report from Director's Office to Field
Offices, Implementation of Specialized Community Outreach Team (SCOT), at 2
(Jan. 7, 2009) (on file with author); Working With Communities Hearing, supra
note 40, at 17 (statement of Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of
Comm. Relations Unit, FBI); see also Speech, Eric Holder, supra note 102.





n125.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 17 (statement of
Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI);
see also Speech, Eric Holder, supra note 102.





n126.  Currier, supra note 20 (reporting the SCOT program has ended); see also
Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 17 (statement of Brett
Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI);
Speech, Eric Holder, supra note 102.





n127.  Fed. Bureau of Investigation Report from Director's Office to Field
Offices, supra note 124, at 5, 7; Price, supra note 20, at 4 ("SCOT was based
out of FBI Headquarters in Washington, DC, funded by the FBI's Counterterrorism
Division, and staffed by counterterrorism personnel who served as supervisors
and intelligence analysts.") (citations omitted).





n128.  These may take place in person or by phone. Working With Communities
Hearing, supra note 40, at 10-11 (statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for
Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.) (referring to
"bi-monthly community conference calls" with Somali-American leaders).





n129.  Id. at 11 (explaining the Incident Communication Coordination team).





n130.  Id. at 7.





n131.  It's unclear what is meant by accountability here. Id. at 11; Community
Engagement, supra note 23.





n132.  The eight regions are Detroit, Houston, Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles,
Minneapolis, Columbus (Ohio), and Washington, D.C. The roundtables regularly
include DHS, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the Transportation
Security Administration, as well as U.S. Attorneys' Offices, the FBI, state and
local law enforcement, and other Federal and local officials. Working With
Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 10 (statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer
for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.); Community
Engagement, supra note 23. Also DHS's CRCL chaired local roundtables in Chicago
and Detroit "involving [MASA] community leaders and numerous Federal agencies."
Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 9 (statement of Margo
Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland Sec.).





n133.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 10-11 (statement of
Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland
Sec.).





n134.  Id. at 9.





n135.  Speech, Eric Holder, supra note 102.





n136.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 14 (statement of
Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm. Relations Unit, FBI).





n137.  See, e.g., id. at 23 (statement of Omar Alomari, Community Engagement
Officer, Ohio Dep't of Safety, Homeland Sec. Div.) (stating that the Ohio
Department of Safety, Homeland Security Division, has formed "advisory councils,
imams' councils, youth councils, and women councils"); id. at 18 (statement of
Leroy Baca, Sheriff, L.A. Cnty. Sheriff's Dep't) (reporting that the L.A.
Sheriff's Department has developed multiple advisory councils, including an
Interfaith Advisory Council and "ethnic" advisory councils including South
Asian, Middle Eastern, "and particularly Iranian and Muslims from various
nations including Pakistan, Jordan, the Gulf States, Turkey, and Azerbaijan");
Seattle Police Dep't, Muslim, Sikh & Arab Advisory Council 1 (2010),
www.seattle.gov/police/programs/advisory/docs/MSA.pdf (stating that the Seattle
Police Department started a Muslim, Sikh, and Arab Advisory Council in 2002).





n138.  In addition to the training of Muslim communities, there is training for
law enforcement - yet federal law enforcement trainings on Islam and Muslims
have come into question for reflecting anti-Muslim bias. See, e.g., U.S. Comm'n
on Civil Rights, supra note 113, at 16.

   DOJ CRS has organized police trainings on communicating and collaborating
with MASA communities. DOJ's CRS has also conducted several "Train-the-Trainer"
programs, in which Arab, Muslim and Sikh American volunteers are trained to help
local law enforcement and other government officials acquire a fundamental
understanding of Arab, Muslim and Sikh cultures. Davies et al., supra note 22,
at 19-20 (CRS has also developed several resources for law enforcement); see
also Twenty Plus One Things Local Law Enforcement Agencies Can Do to Prevent or
Respond to Hate Incidents Against Arab-Americans, Muslims and Sikhs, U.S. Dep't
of Justice (Nov. 16, 2001),
http://www.justice.gov/archive/crs/pubs/twentyplus.htm; Community Relations
Service, The First Three to Five Seconds: Arab and Muslim Cultural Awareness
Training for Law Enforcement, U.S. Dep't Justice,
https://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/training/xus/crcl/three-fiveseconds/First_Se
conds_Arab_LEO/index.h tm (last visited Mar. 18, 2015). DHS CRCL conducts
cultural competency training relating to MASA communities for local, state, and
federal law enforcement. Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 12
(statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties,
Dep't. of Homeland Sec.) (referring to "live," "on-site" and DVD versions of the
trainings). For a state analogue, see, for example, id. at 23 (statement of Omar
Alomari, Community Engagement Officer, Ohio Dep't of Safety, Homeland Sec.
Div.). Diversification of police forces is a related enterprise. The L.A. County
Sheriff's Department created a Muslim Community Affairs Unit, staffed by Muslim
American deputy sheriffs. See id. at 20 (statement of Leroy Baca, Sheriff, L.A.
Cnty. Sheriff's Dep't).





n139.  A more recent initiative, CREST, is a shorter version of the Citizen
Academy, focused on communities where trust in the FBI is particularly low -
various Muslim communities are an important demographic. See, e.g., Community
Relations Executive Seminar Training (CREST), FBI.gov,
https://www.fbi.gov/about-us/partnerships_and_outreach/community_out reach/crest
(last visited Mar. 18, 2014) (mentioning CREST presentation for Arab Americans).
The FBI frames CREST as important to building relations with Muslim and Arab
communities in a nonstressful setting and therefore as important to
counterradicalization work. Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at
14, 16 (statement of Brett Hovington, Supervisory Special Agent, Head of Comm.
Relations Unit, FBI); see also Starting a Conversation, supra note 120; CAIR-PA
Participates in FBI Community Relations Training Program, CAIR Phila. (Dec. 15,
2010), http://pa.cair.com/civil-rights/cair-fbi-crest ("After the training,
there was an open forum for concerns regarding FBI tactics used with Muslim
Americans and mosques. Local leaders expressed concerns over informants
penetrating mosques, agent provocateurs bringing extremist rhetoric, notable
Islamophobes providing the FBI with misinformation on Islam and Muslims, imams
being interviewed by FBI agents, and much more. FBI officials acknowledged that
the relationship between the agency and the Muslim Americans needs to improve,
and all parties agreed that more dialogue and outreach, such as the CREST
program, is a step in the right direction."); Sameen Tahir-Khan, Muslims Grill
FBI Agents on Key Issues, Arab News (Mar. 18, 2008),
http://www.arabnews.com/node/310006 (describing a contentious CREST session with
Muslim communities in Ohio); Arab, Muslim, South Asian, and Sikh-American
Organizations Object to FBI Comments, Am.-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm. (June
21, 2006), http://www. adc.org/index. php?id=2825 (including a letter by
community groups to the FBI complaining about the FBI's framing of CREST); Arun
Kumar, Curb Terror: FBI To Rope in Muslims, Sikhs, Hindustan Times (June 14,
2006), http://www.hindustantimes.com/News-Feed/NM12/
Curb-terror-FBI-to-rope-in-Muslims-Sikhs/Article1-109302.aspx; Violent Islamist
Extremism, supra note 40, at 307-11 (statement of John Miller, Assistant Dir.,
Office of Pub. Affairs FBI); FBI Citizens Academies, FBI.gov (Oct. 26, 2009),
www.fbi.gov/news/stories/2009/october/ citizensacad_102609.





n140.  Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Community Engagement
Section, U.S. Dep't of Homeland Sec.,
http://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/cve-as/community-engagement-
dhs-crcl-poster.pdf (last visited Mar. 18, 2015).





n141.  Pakistani Am. Ass'n of Conn. et al., Understanding Radicalization and
De-Radicalization Strategies 8 (June 19, 2010).





n142.  A Decade Lost, supra note 19, at 83.





n143.  Governor Chris Christie Selects Edward Dickson as Next Director of
Homeland Security and Preparedness, supra note 108.





n144.  E.g., Kundnani, supra note 28, at 218-19 ("The thinking was that the more
young Somalis could be given opportunities to interact with people outside their
own community, the more they would likely integrate successfully into mainstream
American society ... and trust police officers.").





n145.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 3 (statement of
Michael T. McCaul, Chair, Subcomm. on Intelligence, Information Sharing, &
Terrorism Risk Assessment) (referring to youth-focused community engagement
efforts like the "Adopt-a-School/Junior Special Agent program" as aimed to
"introduce youth to the FBI and to encourage good citizenship."); id. at 12
(statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties,
Dep't. of Homeland Sec.) (referring to youth as "the frontlines" for "terrorist
recruitment," and therefore "perhaps the most vital audience for a message of
inclusion, esteem, and fair treatment" and stating that DHS must "welcome young
people in American Arab, Muslim, Sikh, and South Asian communities to join our
Nation's collective security efforts; we must empower them to be connected
rather than alienated."); id. at 26 (statement of Omar Alomari, Community
Engagement Officer, Ohio Dep't of Safety, Homeland Sec. Div.) (speaking of Ohio
Homeland Security's efforts).





n146.  Kundnani, supra note 28, at 220-21; Price, supra note 20, at 5-7; Dave
Zirin, Not a Game: How the NYPD Uses Sports for Surveillance, Nation (Sept. 10,
2013, 9:00 AM), http://www.
thenation.com/blog/176082/not-game-how-nypd-uses-sports-surveillance; Eileen
Sullivan, Community Outreach Key to Obama Counterterror Plan, Associated Press
(May 25, 2013, 11:00 AM),
http://bigstory.ap.org/article/community-outreach-key-obama-counterterror-plan;
Press Release, FBI Honolulu Div., Kalihi-Waena Elementary School Community
Outreach Event (March 18, 2011), available at
http://www.fbi.gov/honolulu/press-releases/2011/hn031811.htm. Interestingly, the
recently released 2010 FBI Directive provides that in its community outreach
efforts, the FBI may engage in "discourse [about] criminal violence or terrorist
activities that may be associated with a particular group or set of beliefs" but
may not "engage in any effort to dissuade individuals from adopting, practicing,
or espousing a particular religious or political belief." Community Outreach in
Field Offices, supra note 115, at 4.





n147.  See generally Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40.





n148.  Community Outreach in Field Offices, supra note 115, at 4.





n149.  In announcing its strategy to counter violent extremism in 2011, for
example, the White House framed its efforts in the language of community
policing: "Law enforcement and government officials for decades have understood
the critical importance of building relationships, based on trust, with the
communities they serve." Strategic Implementation Plan, supra note 56, at 1. DHS
and DOJ materials also invoke community policing in discussing the importance of
community engagement in the national security context. See, e.g., Homeland
Security Advisory Council, Countering Violent Extremism (CVE) Working Group 8-12
(2010), https://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/hsac_cve_work
ing_group_recommendations.pdf. More recently, the International Association of
Chiefs of Police, in collaboration with the DOJ's Community Oriented Policing
Services, published a report that refers to the federal government's, and state
and local law enforcement's, incorporation of community policing and CVE work:
"Applying the same community policing principles that have helped reduce general
crime, violence, and social disorder to terrorism and violent extremism can also
aid in preventing future attacks." Int'l Ass'n of Chiefs of Police, Using
Community Policing to Counter Violent Extremism: Five Key Principles for Law
Enforcement 2 (2014), available at http://
ric-zai-inc.com/Publications/cops-p299-pub.pdf.





n150.  For a critique of the broader rise of actuarial methods in criminal law
and punishment, see Bernard Harcourt, Against Prediction: Punishing & Policing
in an Actuarial Age 3 (2007).





n151.  It's also worth noting that a broken windows theory approach could
encompass a wide range of policing practices.





n152.  More recently, Tracey Meares has expressed hesitation about broken
windows, and rearticulated her commitments to community policing through the
lens of the procedural justice literature. Tracey Meares, Broken Windows,
Neighborhoods and the Legitimacy of Law Enforcement, or How I Fell In and Out of
Love with Zimbardo, Lecture Before the Netherlands Institution for Study of
Crime & Law Enforcement Conference on Broken Windows Policing (Oct. 24, 2013)
(draft on file with author).





n153.  Dorothy E. Roberts, Foreword: Race, Vagueness, and the Social Meaning of
Order-Maintenance Policing, 89 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 775, 776-77 (1999). For
a helpful definition of disorder, see Robert J. Sampson, Great American City:
Chicago and the Enduring Neighborhood Effect 121 (2012) ("Social disorder is
commonly understood to mean public behavior that is considered threatening, like
verbal harassment, open solicitation for prostitution, public intoxication, and
rowdy groups of young males on the streets. Physical markers of disorder
typically refer to graffiti on buildings, abandoned cars, garbage in the
streets, and the proverbial broken window.").





n154.  Bernard Harcourt, Illusion of Order: The False Promise of Broken Windows
Policing 46-47 (2001). At the time, the literature and public discourse were
oft-fixed on community policing in the form of aggressive enforcement of minor
crimes - which could be and often was referred to as order-maintenance or broken
windows policing. Bernard Harcourt, Reflecting on the Subject: A Critique of the
Social Influence Conception of Deterrence, the Broken Windows Theory, and
Order-Maintenance Policing New York Style, 97 Mich. L. Rev. 291, 294 (1998)
(order-maintenance policing is a version of community policing); Tracey L.
Meares & Dan Kahan, Black, White and Gray: A Reply to Alschuler and Schulhofer,
1998 U. Chi. Legal F. 245, 245, 256-59 (1998) [hereinafter Meares & Kahan,
Black, White and Gray] (conflating Chicago's anti-gang-loitering ordinance with
order-maintenance policing, community policing, and broken windows theory);
Jeffrey Fagan & Garth Davies, Street Stops and Broken Windows: Terry, Race, and
Disorder in New York City, 28 Fordham Urb. L.J. 457, 467-68 (2000) (referring to
order-maintenance policing as an adaptation of community policing).

   For criticism of 1990s Chicago antiloitering ordinance, see, for example,
Harcourt, supra. Chicago's criminal ban on "loitering" "with no apparent
purpose" invested what the Supreme Court ultimately determined was
unconstitutional discretion in police to flex their muscle. Chicago v. Morales,
527 U.S. 41, 47, 64 (1999); see also Dan M. Kahan & Tracy L. Meares, Foreword:
The Coming Crisis of Criminal Procedure 86 Geo. L.J. 1153 (1997) [hereinafter
Kahan & Meares, Coming Crisis]. Even the NYPD's "quality of life" initiative of
the 1990s - by which the police force aggressively policed misdemeanors like
graffiti, loitering, and public urination - has been characterized as a
community policing initiative. Harcourt, supra, at 46-47.





n155.  There are many origin stories for community policing. E.g., Tracy L.
Meares, Praying for Community Policing, 90 Calif. L. Rev. 1593, 1600-01 (2002)
(framing community policing as a result of interest in police as
problem-solvers, decades-long interest in involving communities in policing, and
organizational adaption within police); David Alan Sklansky, Police and
Democracy, 103 Mich. L. Rev. 1699, 1699-1708 (2005) (observing that community
policing reflects changing expectations of police and changing notions of
democracy).





n156.  Police will be more informed - and in turn, more grounded in and
responsive to - community needs and concerns. Mark Harrison Moore,
Problem-Solving and Community Policing, 15 Crime & Just. 99, 123 (1992); Stephen
D. Mastrofski & James J. Willis, Police Organization Continuity and Change: Into
the Twenty-First Century, 39 Crime & Just. 55, 117-18 (2010); Michael D. Reisig,
Community and Problem-Oriented Policing, 39 Crime & Just. 1, 5-6 (2010); see
also Nigel Fielding, Community Policing 162-82 (1995).





n157.  The push for partnerships reflected the emerging awareness in governments
that "crime control is "beyond the state.'" David Garland, The Culture of
Control: Crime and Social Order in Contemporary Society 123-27 (2001) (defining
"beyond the state" in two ways: (1) "the institutions of the criminal justice
state are severely limited ... and cannot by themselves succeed in the
maintenance of "law and order'"; and (2) "there are crime control mechanisms
operating outside the state's boundaries, and relatively independently of its
policies.").





n158.  Cf. Meares, supra note 155, at 1601-19 (suggesting that for the
communication to be effective, it must occur within some social norm control
architecture).





n159.  Even those law enforcement agencies that support community policing
philosophies often fail to make the required changes to their organizational
structure to allow for meaningful community policing. See Gerasimos A. Gianakis
& G. John Davis, III, Reinventing or Repackaging Public Services? The Case of
Community-Oriented Policing, 58 Pub. Admin. Rev. 485, 494-96 (1998).





n160.  In their National Institute of Justice study, Jerome Skolnick and David
Bayley identify four principles of community policing: "community-based crime
prevention, reorientation of patrol, increased police accountability, and
decentralization of command." William Lyons, The Politics of Community Policing:
Rearranging the Power to Punish 35 (1999) (citing the Skolnick and Bayley
study); see also Wesley G. Skogan, Community Policing: Can It Work? 6-7 (2006);
Jerome H. Skolnick & David H. Bayley, Theme and Variation in Community Policing,
10 Crime & Just. 1, 5 (1988); Peter Somerville, Understanding Community
Policing, 32 Policing Int'l J. Police Strategies & Mgmt. 261, 264 (2009); Herman
Goldstein, Toward Community-Oriented Policing: Potential, Basic Requirements,
and Threshold Questions, 33 Crime & Delinq. 6, 8-10 (1987).





n161.  See, e.g., Gerald D. Robin, Community Policing: Origins, Elements,
Implementation, Assessment 41-74 (2000).





n162.  Reisig, supra note 156, at 24 (community policing is "undergird" by a
"variety of theoretical frameworks," including "broken windows and social
disorganization theory"); Matthew C. Scheider, Robert Chapman & Amy Schapiro,
Towards the Unification of Policing Innovations Under Community Policing, 32
Policing Int'l J. Police Strategies & Mgmt. 694, 694 (2009) ("Over the last 25
years the policing field has been subject to a dizzying array of innovation
including: community policing, problem-oriented policing, broken windows,
intelligence-led policing, Compstat, third-party policing, and hot spots.");
Tracey L. Meares, Critic: Third-Party Policing: A Critical View, in Police
Innovation: Contrasting Perspectives 207, 207 (David Weisburd & Anthony A. Braga
eds., 2006) (explaining that third-party policing works "to persuade or to
coerce third parties, such as landlords, parents, local government regulators,
and business owners to take on some responsibility for preventing crime or
reducing crime problems"); Debra Livingston, Police Discretion and the Quality
of Life in Public Spaces: Courts, Communities, and the New Policing, 97 Colum.
L. Rev. 551, 556 (1997) (referring to "quality of life enforcement") (internal
quotation marks omitted); Sklansky, supra note 31, at 120-22 (explaining
neighborhood and hot spots policing). "Community policing has become the
ubiquitous common terminology for describing the current era in policing - much
as police professionalism served, a generation ago, as a catchall concept for
practically any effort ... aimed at improving law enforcement." Id. at 114
(alteration in original) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).





n163.  Police histories and police function are highly contested, and have given
rise to countless police histories. A careful chronicler of the complex trends
in American policing, David Sklansky has written powerfully about the shifting
emphasis in police theory from the 1960s onward, pointing out these theories
motivate the exercise of police power, rather than to serve as a concrete set of
tactics or procedures. The 1960s was the era of "police professionalism" -
during which time department authority was to be "centralized and rationalized"
so that police could "focus on crime suppression ... objectively and
scientifically, free from political influence." By the 1980s and 1990s,
community policing started to eclipse the emphasis on professionalism. Community
policing advocates argued that police departments should decentralize authority
and "broaden[] their focus from crime control to a range of other goals," and
"select[] and pursue[] these goals in consultation and cooperation with the
public." The post-9/11 era, Sklansky notes, is marked with a return to the
centralized norms of professionalism through the guise of "intelligence-led
policing" and "predictive policing" - a "business model and managerial
philosophy for objective decision-making using data and intelligence analysis."
David Alan Sklansky, The Persistent Pull of Police Professionalism, New Persp.
Policing, Mar. 2011, at 1, 1-3 (internal quotation marks omitted).





n164.  For example, while DOJ claims that intelligence-led policing is
consistent with community policing, Sklansky argues that "the guiding philosophy
[of intelligence-led policing] is bureaucratic and technocratic rather than
collaborative and community-based." Sklansky, supra note 163, at 2-4.





n165.  George L. Kelling & James Q. Wilson, Broken Windows: The Police and
Neighborhood Safety, Atlantic (Mar. 1, 1982),
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/304465.





n166.  Id.





n167.  Id. ("Disorder and crime are usually inextricably linked, in a kind of
developmental sequence.").





n168.  Jeffrey Fagan and Garth Davies have critiqued the NYPD's co-optation of
broken windows theory into order-maintenance policing, arguing that while broken
windows theory emphasized alternatives to arrest and prosecution,
order-maintenance policing chooses instead to criminalize disorder. Fagan &
Davies, supra note 154, at 471-72.





n169.  Another way to read the theory - and indeed it has been defended this way
- is not that it suggests a correlation between disorder and crime, but that it
correlates disorder and fear of crime. See generally Joshua C. Hinkle & David
Weisburd, The Irony of Broken Windows Policing: A Micro-Place Study of the
Relationship Between Disorder, Focused Police Crackdowns and Fear of Crime, 36
J. Crim. Just. 503 (2008). Fear of crime will cause individuals to withdraw from
the community, and that withdrawal will mean a decrease in social control in the
community, opening up space for criminal activity. Id. at 3-4.





n170.  Kelling & Wilson, supra note 165 (internal quotation marks omitted); see
also Police Foundation, The Newark Foot Patrol Experiment 3 (1981).





n171.  The basic kernel: The government should account for the social meaning
and social contexts of its actions and those it governs. Tracey L. Meares,
Norms, Legitimacy and Law Enforcement, 79 Or. L. Rev. 391, 391-98 (2000); Dan M.
Kahan, Social Meaning and the Economic Analysis of Crime, 27 J. Legal Stud. 609,
610-22 (1998); Dan M. Kahan, Privatizing Criminal Law: Strategies for Private
Norm Enforcement in the Inner City, 46 UCLA L. Rev. 1858, 1860 (1999)
[hereinafter Kahan, Privatizing Criminal Law]; Dan M. Kahan, Reciprocity,
Collective Action, and Community Policing, 90 Cal. L. Rev. 1513, 1513-14 (2002).
Social norms theory emerged as a response to the focus of law and economics on
individualistic self-interested behavior, observing that crime reflects social
meaning and context. See Robert C. Ellickson, Law and Economics Discovers Social
Norms, 27 J. Legal Stud. 537, 539 (1998); Dan M. Kahan, Social Influence, Social
Meaning, and Deterrence, 83 Va. L. Rev. 349, 362?67 (1997). For social norms
theorists, see generally Eric A. Posner, The Regulation of Groups: The Influence
of Legal and Non-Legal Sanctions on Collective Action, 63 U. Chi. L. Rev. 133
(1996); Eric A. Posner, Symbols, Signals, and Social Norms in Politics and the
Law, 27 J. Legal Stud. 765 (1998); Richard H. McAdams, Signaling Discount Rates:
Law, Norms, and Economic Methodology, 110 Yale L.J. 625 (2001) (reviewing Eric
A. Posner, Law and Social Norms, (2000)); see also Lawrence Lessig, The New
Chicago School, 27 J. Legal Stud. 661 (1998); Robert Weisberg, Norms and
Criminal Law, and the Norms of Criminal Law Scholarship, 93 J. Crim. L. &
Criminology 467 (2003).





n172.  Tracey Meares and Dan Kahan were the primary champions. See, e.g.,
Meares, supra note 171, at 391-98; Kahan & Meares, Coming Crisis, supra note
154, at 1160-61 (defining a "new community policing" different than when the
same techniques were put to use decades ago as a way to exclude communities of
color). Meares and Kahan argued for a much broader set of reforms in criminal
law and procedure that would prioritize what they framed as self-determination
of communities of color in the question of constitutionality. Id. at 1153-56;
Meares & Kahan, Black, White and Gray, supra note 154, at 245-46. Importantly, a
larger chorus of voices - proponents of larger criminal justice reform -
bolstered Meares and Kahan's arguments; these reformists favored community
approaches to criminal law, if not broken windows theory. E.g., Anthony V.
Alfieri, Community Prosecutors, 90 Calif. L. Rev. 1465, 1465-66, 73-74 (2002);
Anthony C. Thompson, It Takes a Community to Prosecute, 77 Notre Dame L. Rev.
321, 330-32 (2002).





n173.  Kahan, Privatizing Criminal Law, supra note 171, at 1860-62; Tracey L.
Meares, Place and Crime, 73 Chi.-Kent L. Rev. 669, 678 (1998).





n174.  Bernard Harcourt and Dorothy Roberts were most prominent among them. See
Harcourt, supra note 154; Roberts, supra note 153.





n175.  Harcourt argued against the assumption that people are categorically good
(law abiding) or bad (lawless). Harcourt, supra note 154, at 26-27; see also
Meares, supra note 173, at 683 ("Multiple roles are inevitable in poor,
structurally weak communities where it is not uncommon for law-abiding citizens
to decry law breaking even as they rely on law breakers for necessary goods such
as money and security... . Some individual victims in high crime inner city
neighborhoods, especially young men, are not always victims. Instead, they
oscillate between being a victim in one instance and an offender the next.").





n176.  Harcourt, supra note 154, at 26-27.





n177.  Roberts, supra note 153, at 801-03.





n178.  Sampson, supra note 153, at 135.





n179.  Id. at 135-37 (emphasis added).





n180.  Harcourt, supra note 154, at 128 ("The order maintenance strategy, it
turns out, depends on arresting people on meaningless charges.").





n181.  E.g., id. at 57-121; Harcourt, supra note 154, at 295-96, 308-10. See
also Harcourt, supra note 154, at 258 n.6; Sampson, supra note 153, at 126-29.





n182.  Even Tracy Meares admitted as much. Meares, supra note 162, at 214-18.
Roberts, supra note 153, at 810-11; Harcourt, supra note 154, at 58. There is
also a rich social sciences literature questioning broken windows theory's basic
claims on normative, empirical, and statistical grounds. See, e.g., Jelte M.
Wicherts & Marjan Bakker, Broken Windows, Mediocre Methods, and Substandard
Statistics, 17 Group Processes & Intergroup Rel. 388 (2014); Hinkle & Weisburd,
supra note 169, at 503-12.





n183.  Akin to the embattled terrain of the term "terrorism," radicalization
theories operate "at the contested boundary between politics and science,
between academic expertise and the state." Lisa Stampnitzky, Disciplining
Terror: How Experts Invited "Terrorism" 13 (2013); see also Aziz Z. Huq,
Modeling Terrorist Radicalization, 2 Duke J.L. & Soc. Change 39, 40 (2010)
(pointing to the particular problems associated with the state's epistemological
engagement in the realm of terrorism studies).





n184.  Huq, supra note 25, at 651-52. For a report that distinguishes between
violent and non-violent extremism, see Jamie Bartlett et al., The Edge of
Violence: A Radical Approach to Extremism (2010).





n185.  Sampson, supra note 153, at 135-37.





n186.  For a deeper exploration of this, see Kundnani, supra note 51. CVE is
also focused on Muslims. See Letter from ACLU et al. to Lisa O. Monaco, supra
note 29.





n187.  Increased surveillance is also an aspect of traditional community
policing. Geoffrey P. Alpert, Roger Dunham & Alex Piquero, On the Study of
Neighborhoods and the Police, in Community Policing: Contemporary Readings 309,
313 (Geoffrey P. Alpert & Alex Piquero eds., 1998) ("Informal control may take
the form of close surveillance."). Indeed, a primary role of increased foot
patrols - a paradigmatic community policing tactic - is precisely to increase
surveillance in a neighborhood. Cf. Police Foundation, supra note 170, at 39.





n188.  Kundnani, supra note 51, at 3; Kundnani, supra note 28, at 286; Mark
Sedgwick, The Concept of Radicalization as a Source of Confusion, 22 Terrorism &
Pol. Violence 479, 479 (2010); Jamie Bartlett, Jonathan Birdwell & Michael King,
The Edge of Violence: A Radical Approach to Extremism 29 (2010). See generally
Jasbir K. Puar & Amit S. Rai, Monster, Terrorist, Fag: The War on Terrorism and
the Production of Docile Patriots, 20 Soc. Text 117, 124 (2002); Jasbir K. Puar,
Terrorist Assemblages: Homonationalism in Queer Times (2007). Such scrutiny is
also targeted at left-wing, antiwar, and anti-imperialist groups. See, e.g.,
Michael Greenberg, The Police and the Protesters, supra note 77; Josh Harkinson,
How a Radical Leftist Became the FBI's BFF, Mother Jones,
http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2011/08/
brandon-darby-anarchist-fbi-terrorism (last visited Mar. 18, 2015).





n189.  Faiza Patel, Brennan Ctr. for Justice, Rethinking Radicalization, 8-12
(2001) (citing Sageman and MI5 studies, as well as a Rand Corporation study, and
a DHS-supported academic study); see also Sedgwick, supra note 188, at 479
(identifying a general confusion and indeterminacy surrounding use of the term).
While Robert Mueller has publicly stated that "these individuals have no typical
profile; their experiences an motives are often distinct," Robert S. Mueller,
III, Dir., FBI, Statement Before the S. Comm. on Homeland Sec. & Gov't Affairs,
(Sept. 19, 2012), the FBI Intelligence Assessment remains in effect. Akbar,
supra note 33, at 824 n.46. See FBI Counterterrorism Div., supra note 43.





n190.  Patel, supra note 189, at 10.





n191.  Id.





n192.  Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life, U.S. Religious Landscape Survey:
Religious Affliction: Diverse and Dynamic 40 (2008),
http://religions.pewforum.org/ pdf/report-religious-landscape-study-full.pdf;
Pew Research Ctr., Muslim Americans: No Signs of Growth in Alienation or Support
for Extremism 8-9 (2011), http://
www.people-press.org/files/legacy-pdf/Muslim%20American%20Report%2010-02-12%20fi
x.pdf (showing substantial majority of Muslim Americans have liberal attitudes
on current political issues and identify as Democrats); Little Support for
Terrorism Among Muslim Americans, Pew Forum on Religion and Pub. Life (Dec. 17,
2009),
http://www.pewforum.org/2009/12/17/little-support-for-terrorism-among-muslim-ame
ricans. See also Islamic, yet Integrated, Economist (Sept. 6, 2014),
www.economist.com/news/united-states/21615611-why-muslims-fare-better-america-eu
rope-islamic-yet-integrated.





n193.  Terrorist Trial Report Card: September 11, 2001-September 11, 2011, Ctr.
on L. & Sec. 19-21 (2011); Aaronson, supra note 64; Illusion of Justice, supra
note 80, at 1-4. For a careful dissection of a particular high-profile
prosecution - that of Syed Fahad Hashmi - see Laura Rovner & Jeanne Theoharis,
Preferring Order to Justice, 61 Am. U. L. Rev. 1331 (2012).





n194.  E.g., Patel, supra note 189, at 1; Huq, supra note 183, at 39; Akbar,
supra note 33.





n195.  Silber & Bhatt, supra note 45, at 18, 22, 68, 70-77.





n196.  See Said, supra note 82, at 732-38; see also Aaronson, supra note 64;
Illusion of Justice, supra note 80, at 21-55. Of course the problems with the
entrapment defense are not limited to the national security context. See, e.g.,
Hampton v. United States, 425 U.S. 484 (1976).





n197.  See Akbar, supra note 33, at 828-31.





n198.  See, e.g., Patel, supra note 189, at 1; Huq, supra note 25, at 639; Huq,
supra note 183, at 40; Kundani, supra note 51, at 3. On the mechanics of
counterradicalization, the government's projected dialectic between the state's
desire to produce national security and the role of community partnerships is
fuzzy at best. Aziz Huq explores three potential causal mechanisms that might
contribute to the social production of counterterrorism: ideological competition
("ideological competition raises terrorism's propagandizing and recruitment
costs"); ethical anchoring ("informal social sanctions can impose a frictional
barrier to illegal behavior); and cooperative coproduction ("private individuals
can substitute more fine-grained epistemic instruments for the blunter
investigative methods government otherwise employs"). Huq, supra note 25, at
673.





n199.  For the idea of racial productivity, see Devon W. Carbado, (E)Racing the
Fourth Amendment, 100 Mich. L. Rev. 946, 971 (2002) (discussing the idea that
"law constructs (not simply avoids) and reifies (not simply discovers) race").
While he focused on the way that Fourth Amendment doctrine burdens Blacks,
Carbado called for an understanding of "race-based policing as a multiracial
social phenomenon." Id. at 967; see also, e.g., Tracey Maclin, "Black and Blue"
Encounters - Some Preliminary Thoughts About Fourth Amendment Seizures: Should
Race Matter?, 26 Val. U. L. Rev. 243 (1991).





n200.  As with other predictive and actuarial methods, one of the costs will be
a ratchet effect, whereby the targeted population becomes increasingly
represented within the offender group by virtue of the more intense targeting.
The "pull of prediction," then, effectively "displaces a fundamental tenet of
just punishment, namely that similarly situated persons should be treated
equally regardless of their membership in any particular ethnic, racial, or
other group." See Harcourt, supra note 154, at 273. ("The profiled population
becomes an even larger proportion of the carceral population - larger in
relation to its representation among actual offenders - than the non-profiled
population."); Bernard Harcourt, A Readers Companion to Against Prediction: A
Reply to Ariela Gross, Yoram Margalioth, and Yoav Sapir on Economic Modeling,
Selective Incapacitation, Governmentality and Race, 33 L. & Soc. Inquiry 265,
281 (2008).





n201.  Other scholars have used the language of racialization for similar
reasons. See, e.g., Ahmad, supra note 37; Nagwa Ibrahim, The Origins of Muslim
Racialization in U.S. Law, 7 UCLA J. Islamic & Near E. L. 121 (2008).





n202.  The law-abiding/lawless dichotomy does seem to be imported into the
national security context. A recent press release announcing a new material
support indictment against two Somali Americans stated: "The law-abiding members
of Minnesota's Somali community are great partners in our fight against terror."
Press Release, U.S. Dep't of Justice, Two Minnesotans Charged With Conspiracy to
Provide Material Support to the Islamic State of Irag and the Levant (Nov. 24,
2014),
http://www.fbi.gov/minneapolis/press-releases/2014/two-minnesotans-charged-with-
conspiracy-to-provide-material-
support-to-the-islamic-state-of-iraq-and-the-levant.





n203.  In the British context, "the vague language of "moderate' and "extremist'
was easily exploited to silence nonconformist views, whether from an Islamist
ideological viewpoint or simply individual opinions about Britain's foreign
policy." Arun Kundnani, The Wrong Way to Prevent Homegrown Terrorism, CNN (Dec.
16, 2010, 8:25 AM), www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/12/16/kundnani. prevent.muslim.





n204.  See Arun Kundnani, Inst. of Race Relations, Spooked! How Not to Prevent
Violent Extremism 35 (2009) (discussing in the context of the British Prevent
program that the distinction between "moderate" and "extreme" Muslims is
flexible enough to exploit marginalized critics of government policies.").





n205.  See, e.g., Shamas & Arastu, supra note 83.





n206.  Id.; Teresa Watanabe & Paloma Esquivel, L.A. Area Muslims Say FBI
Surveillance Has a Chilling Effect on Their Free Speech and Religious Practices,
L.A. Times (Mar. 1, 2009),
http://articles.latimes.com/2009/mar/01/local/me-muslim1; Alexander J. O'Connor
& Farhana Jahan, Under Surveillance and Overwrought: American Muslims' Emotional
and Behavioral Responses for Government Surveillance, 8 J. Muslim Mental Health
95, 191 (2014); Illusion of Justice, supra note 80, at 165-73.





n207.  Of course, suspicion of Muslims pre-dates radicalization theory and even
9/11. See, e.g., Ahmad, supra note 37, at 1282. Radicalization theory does not
create a new threat out of whole cloth, but shifts the terms of the
conversation.





n208.  Harcourt, supra note 154, at 162.





n209.  Silber & Bhatt, supra note 45, at 24, 32-33.





n210.  Id. at 33.





n211.  Practices understood to exhibit a Salafi worldview are particularly
flagged. E.g., id. at 33-37. In the United States, Salafism tends to be
understood as a homogeneous, fundamentalist strain of Islam - indeed the primary
strain of concern. To the contrary, Salafism is a mode of religious
interpretation and practice with various geographical and historical iterations.
The term "Salafism" is insufficiently concrete or specific to refer to any
particular sect or subset of Muslims. As much as Islam and terrorism should not
be conflated, both as a matter of ethics and based on facts, conservative
religious belief and terrorism should not be considered interchangeable either.
See Akbar, supra note 33, at 835 & accompanying notes.





n212.  To put this in perspective, while a recent Pew survey found 47 percent of
American Muslims polled "think of themselves first as Muslim, rather than as an
American," polls of other communities have found that "42% of Christians
(including 65% of Christian Evangelicals) said they were Christian first, rather
than American." Alejandro J. Beutel, Muslim Pub. Affairs Council, Building
Bridges to Strengthen America: Forging an Effective Counterterrorism Enterprise
Between Muslim Americans & Law Enforcement 14 (2014) (internal quotation marks
omitted) (citing various Pew sources).





n213.  See Address, George W. Bush, President, Address to a Joint Session of
Congress and the American People (Sept. 20, 2001),
http://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/news/releases/
2001/09/20010920-8.html.





n214.  For additional commentary on the good-bad Muslim dichotomy, see generally
Mahmood Mamdani, Good Muslim, Bad Muslim: America, the Cold War, and the Roots
of Terror (2004); Aziz, supra note 25.





n215.  See, e.g., FBI Counterterrorism Div., supra note 43, at 7-8; Silber &
Bhatt, supra note 45, at 32; Deposition of Thomas Galati at 30-31, Handschu v.
Special Servs. Div., No. 71 Civ. 2203 (S.D.N.Y. June 28, 2002), available at
http://www.nyclu.org/files/releases/Handschu_ Galati_6.28.12.pdf.





n216.  See, e.g., Adam Serwer, NYPD: Muslims' Conversations About Anti-Muslim
Bias Justify Spying on Muslims, Mother Jones (Aug. 23, 2012, 5:00 AM),
http://www.motherjones.com/politics/
2012/08/nypd-muslim-surveillance-transcript-redacted.





n217.  Silber & Bhatt, supra note 45, at 45.





n218.  There is an anxiety about the line between radical and illegal in the
national security context. Robert Wasserman, U.S. Dept. of Justice, Guidance for
Building Communities of Trust (2010),
http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/files/RIC/Publications/e071021293 _Building
CommTrust.pdf ("The line between radicalism and violent extremism can be
difficult to see when espoused beliefs run contrary to the majority public
opinion.").





n219.  See Weisberg, supra note 171.





n220.  Akbar, supra note 33, at 877-78.





n221.  In a successful proposal for DOJ funding for its Muslim/Somali community
outreach, the St. Paul Police Department claimed it would "identify radicalized
individuals ... who refuse to cooperate with our efforts." City of Saint Paul
Police Dep't, Grant Proposal: African Immigrant Muslim Coordinated Outreach
Program (AIMCOP) (on file with author). Ultimately AIMCOP "does not appear to
have informed the Muslim/Somali community that failure to participate in the
Police Athletic League or YWCA programs could result in being put on a list of
radicalized youth ... . [The police] maintain that "the intelligence aspect
never came to fruition.'" Price, supra note 20, at 5-7.





n222.  Carbado, supra note 199, at 966. In this discussion, I borrow Carbado's
language about policing and blackness to consider the dynamics of policing and
Muslimness.





n223.  Id. at 971-73.





n224.  Id.





n225.  Id. at 1020.





n226.  Id. at 1041 ("The very notion that there are "good' and "bad' black
people has political currency and makes sense only because there is already a
presumption of blackness as bad ... . Few people, in the context of thinking
about crime, would conceptualize whiteness or the category of "white people' in
terms of "good' and "bad.' The dichotomy is intelligible vis-a-vis blacks
because people understand it to mean "not all black people are bad. There are
exceptions. Some of them are good.").





n227.  Id. at 1041-42.





n228.  Id. at 1043.





n229.  As mentioned earlier, the FBI and NYPD have created maps visualizing the
racial, religious, ethnic, and national demographics of Muslim neighborhoods and
institutions. See Akbar, supra note 33, at 855-59. These become the policed
locales, the raced geographies. These spaces are raced by virtue of the fact
that people of color gather there; but the act of gathering itself makes the
location a racialized site of policing.





n230.  See, e.g., NYPD Intelligence Div., Demographics Unit, Egyptian Locations
of Interest Report 8-13, 16-21 (July 7, 2006) [hereinafter NYPD Egyptian
Locations Report], available at
http://hosted.ap.org/specials/interactives/documents/nypd/nypd-egypt.pdf; NYPD
Intelligence Div., Demographics Unit, Newark, New Jersey Demographics Report
20-21, 25-33 (Sept. 25, 2007), available at http://hosted.ap.org/spe
cials/interactives/documents/nypd/nypd_newark.pdf. Some of the entries for
businesses denote whether the NYPD is aware of the owners' involvement in crimes
like "credit card and WIC fraud" or "credit card fraud and prostitution." NYPD
Egyptian Locations Report, supra, at 11. An entry in this report notes a
bookstore "was involved in terrorist activities in the past." Id. at 12. The
terrorist activities referenced seem to be those at issue in the prosecution
against Siraj Matin, in which the Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) deployed
undercover police to collect intelligence and instigate terrorist activity. The
Matin prosecution has been widely criticized. See, e.g., Illusion of Justice,
supra note 80; Said, supra note 82.





n231.  See Compilation of Hearings on Islamist Radicalization - Volume III:
Hearings Before the H. Comm. on Homeland Sec., 112th Cong. 75 (2012) (statement
of Rep. Peter T. King, Chairman H. Comm. on Homeland Sec.); Compilation of
Hearings on Islamist Radicalization - Volume II: Joint Hearing Before the H.
Comm. on Homeland Sec. & the S. Comm. on Homeland Sec. & Governmental Affairs,
112th Cong. 2 (2011).





n232.  See, e.g., Sheryl Gay Stolberg & Laurie Goodstein, Domestic Terrorism
Hearing Opens With Contrasting Views of Dangers, N.Y. Times, Mar. 11, 2011, at
A15.





n233.  The primary witnesses at the hearing were M. Zuhdi Jasser, President of
the American Islamic Forum of Democracy, Melvin Bledsoe, and Abdirizak Bihi,
father and uncle, respectively, of "radicalized" young men, and L.A. County
Sheriff Lee Baca. Compilation of Hearings on Islamist Radicalization - Volume I:
Hearings Before the H. Comm. on Homeland Sec., 112th Cong. (2011).





n234.  The committee staff propped up a National Lawyers' Guild Know Your Rights
poster advising of the Fifth Amendment right to silence to illustrate the
concern. See National Lawyer's Guild Rejects Scapegoating in Hearings Targeting
Muslims, Nat'l Lawyers Guild (Mar. 9, 2011),
https://www.nlg.org/news/national-lawyers-guild-rejects-scapegoating-hearings-ta
rgeting-muslims; Amna Akbar, Erasures and Resistance: What Peter King's Hearing
Said. And What It Didn't, Samar Magazine (May 31, 2011),
http://www.samarmagazine.org/archive/articles/353.





n235.  Kundnani, supra note 28, at 215-17.





n236.  See Amna Akbar & Ramzi Kassem, Are Muslims Allowed Rights?, Al Jazeera
(Nov. 28, 2011, 12:43 PM),
http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/opinion/2011/11/20111124155019 38290.html.





n237.  In a dramatic reflection of how this pressure is lived, Linda Sarsour,
the National Advocacy Director of the National Network for Arab American
Communities, recently asked: "I'm an American and I'm a Muslim. Should I cut
myself in half?" The Rachel Maddow Show (NBC television broadcast Feb. 18,
2015), available at
http://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/watch/obama-anti-muslim-bigotry-has-no-p
lace-in-us- 401221187568.





n238.  See Huq, supra note 25, at 705-07.





n239.  Rascoff has pointed to concerns with the government's role in
legitimizing and delegitimizing modes of religious practice as acceptable or
beyond the pale. Rascoff, supra note 25.





n240.  Stampnitzky, supra note 183, at 187-88. Stampnitzky also documents that
terrorism experts' views have regularly been discounted by policy makers. Id.





n241.  Puar & Rai, supra note 188, at 124; see also Puar, supra note 188, at
51-61. For an example, consider Kundnani's treatment of what the U.S. account
misses about why Somali Americans might travel to Somalia to join al Shabaab.
Kundnani, supra note 28, at 222-28.





n242.  Stampnitzky, supra note 183, at 180.





n243.  Arun Kundnani, A Decade Lost: Rethinking Radicalisation and Extremism,
Claystone 15 (Jan. 2015),
http://www.claystone.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/Claystone-rethinking-
radicalisation.pdf.





n244.  Kundnani, supra note 28. Kundnani points to Olivier Roy's work, where he
argues that the "leap into terrorism" is not religiously inspired, but better
seen as sharing "many factors with other forms of dissent, either political (the
ultra left), or behavioral: the fascination for sudden suicidal violence as
illustrated by the paradigm of random shootings in schools (the "Columbine
syndrome')." Kundnani, supra note 51, at 21.





n245.  Shamas & Arastu, supra note 83; Amna Akbar, How Tarek Mehanna Went to
Prison for a Thought Crime, Nation (Dec. 31, 2013),
http://www.thenation.com/article/177750/how-tarek-mehanna-went-prison-thought-cr
ime.





n246.  Shamas & Arastu, supra note 83.





n247.  Id.; Akbar, supra note 245.





n248.  Arun Kundnani, Missing the Best Chance to Prevent Terror Bombing, CNN
(May 7, 2013, 8:10 AM),
http://www.cnn.com/2013/05/07/opinion/kundnani-terror-mosques-surveillance;
Kundnani, supra note 204, at 35 (in the context of the British program, Prevent
undermined "exactly the kind of radical discussions of political issues that
would need to occur if young people are to be won over and support for
illegitimate political violence diminished.").





n249.  Kundnani, supra note 248.





n250.  In the British context, all-encompassing surveillance has also been an
aspect of similar community engagement efforts. Kundnani, supra note 204, at
28-34; Paul Thomas, Failed and Friendless: The UK's "Preventing Violent
Extremism' Programme, 12 Brit. J. Pol. & Int'l Rel. 442, 448-50 (2010).





n251.  DOJ recognizes this tension in its community policing literature, which
warns against "misusing terms such as radical, radicalism, extremist, and
violent extremism." Wasserman, supra note 218, at 37.





n252.  Charles Kurzman, Triangle Ctr. on Terrorism & Homeland Sec.,
Muslim-American Terrorism: Declining Further (2013); see also Spencer Ackerman,
Report: U.S. Muslim Terrorism Was Practically Nil in 2012, Wired (Feb. 1, 2013,
12:57 PM), http://www.wired.com/2013/02/american-muslim-terrorism; see also FBI
Counterterrorism Div., Terrorism 2002-2005, at 1-2 (2006), available at
http://www.fbi.gov/stats-services/
publications/terrorism-2002-2005/terror02_05.pdf; Mark Follman et al., A Guide
to Mass Shootings in America, Mother Jones (July 20, 2012, 10:32 PM),
http://www.motherjones.com/ politics/2012/07/mass-shootings-map.





n253.  See Lyons, supra note 160, at 167, 171-74 (observing that in the Seattle
community policing initiative, perspectives of the police department remained
privileged over community perspectives).





n254.  The security valence was problematized infra Part II, and has been
problematized elsewhere. See generally, e.g., Akbar, supra note 33; Huq, supra
note 183; Cole & Lobel, supra note 36.





n255.  Herbert, supra note 31, at 64-66 (stating that different visions of
"state-society relations" will suggest the proper role of community in community
policing).





n256.  Archon Fung, Empowered Participation 4 (2006) (participatory democracy
depends on the idea that "the people should have substantial and equal
opportunities to participate directly in the decisions that affect them.").





n257.  See, e.g., Schmitt, supra note 24; Paul Vitello & Kirk Semple, Muslims
Say F.B.I. Tactics Sow Anger and Fear, N.Y. Times (Dec. 17, 2009),
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/18/us/18muslims.html; U.S. Comm'n on Civil
Rights, supra note 113, at 20.





n258.  See U.S. Comm'n on Civil Rights, supra note 113, at 6 ("With few
exceptions, these outreach efforts are intertwined with national security
concerns."). MPAC has presented these as two distinct approaches to community
engagement: the "suspect trend of engagement [that] encourages aggressive
intelligence and surveillance activities in communities, suggesting that many in
the community are suspects" and the "partnership trend in which local
communities develop strong relationships with law enforcement agencies and local
government agencies." Id. at 18. See also Preventing Terrorism and Countering
Violent Extremism and Radicalization that Lead to Terrorism: A
Community-Policing Approach, Org. for Security & Co-operation Eur. 68-70 (Feb.
2014), http://www.osce.org/atu/111438?download=true (contrasting "community
targeted" and "community oriented" approaches, where the former is focused on
"intelligence-gathering and enforcement activities driven by security priorities
of the state" and the latter is focused on building "locally driven,
co-operative initiatives, tailored to local contexts"). The current reality of
the U.S. approach is more blurred.





n259.  Kundnani, supra note 28, at 218-19.





n260.  Id. (indicators included "an absent father," "an abrupt change in
religious practice," "a deviation from one group of friends, or one mosque, to
another, for no apparent reason," and "removing themselves from one peer group
and becoming a loner and kind of deviating away from a particular religious
group").





n261.  E.g., Schmitt, supra note 24.





n262.  For a long view of these problems, rooted in the history of slavery and
Jim Crow, see, for example, Randall Kennedy, Race, Crime, and the Law 29-135
(1997).





n263.  Huq, supra note 25, at 706 ("Just as labeling one minority religious or
ethnic group in categorical and derogatory terms seems problematic, so too
labeling a specific minority as especially responsible for the production of
security against terrorism may be cause for normative concern."). See Thomas,
supra note 250, at 445-48 (documenting the harms of focusing on Muslim
communities in the British counterradicalization program Preventing Violent
Extremism (PVE)).





n264.  Goodstein, supra note 99 (noting that CVE programs "have not been
embraced as a widespread priority by American Muslims, at least until recently,
in part because the problem seemed to be overseas, not here, Muslim leaders
say").





n265.  E.g., Council on Am.-Islamic Relations et al., Joint Statement Regarding
Upcoming Summit on Countering Violent Extremism, Council on Am.-Islamic Rel.
(Feb. 17, 2015), http://www.cair.com/images/pdf/CAIR-CVE-summit-statement.pdf
[hereinafter CAIR et al., Joint Statement].





n266.  See, e.g., Encouraging Cooperation With Law Enforcement, Council on
Am.-Islamic Rel. (June 14, 2012, 9:32 PM),
https://www.cair.com/about-us/working-with-law-enforcement.html.





n267.  This is not to suggest that American Muslims do not participate in these
efforts. See Goodstein, supra note 99. The federal nature of the underlying
concern also undercuts community engagement's democratic potential. Federal law
enforcement entities, national in scope and in responsibility, take the lead in
community engagement efforts, whereas local police embody community policing as
originally conceived. Even in the community policing context, critics worried
that more marginalized communities or segments of communities - the ones most in
need of protection from abusive, unaccountable policing - would be unable to
interact with police in any way that contests power. In the federal context, not
to mention the politically charged realm of national security, the concern is
even more acute. The idea that marginalized, dispersed, and diverse Muslim
communities could contest or hold accountable the federal government or federal
law enforcement is dubious. If Muslims had the political power to hold the
police accountable - to change the script, so to speak - these proactive
programs would not be necessary from a democracy or inclusion perspective to
begin with. Cf. id.





n268.  See Aziz, supra note 25, at 196-202.





n269.  Arun Kundnani, The FBI's "Good' Muslims, The Nation, Sept. 19, 2011, at
18.





n270.  Community Outreach in Field Offices, supra note 115, at 4.





n271.  See Kari Huus, ACLU: FBI "Mosque Outreach' Program Used to Spy on
Muslims, NBC News (Mar. 29, 2012, 3:07 AM),
http://usnews.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/03/29/10907668-aclu-fbi-mosque-outreach-pro
gram-used-to-spy-on-muslims; U.S. Comm'n on Civil Rights, supra note 113, at
121, 124.





n272.  Imams have reported an inability to play the role of spiritual leader, or
to cultivate the mosque as a space to hold debates or critical conversations on
religious and political ideologies, for fear of surveillance. Shamas & Arastu,
supra note 83, at 14-15.





n273.  Huq, supra note 25 ("What might have been an autonomous domain of civil
society becomes a grossly functional appendage of the state. In this fashion,
religious communities already stigmatized and corroded by suspicion undergo a
second, additional kind of loss that sounds in autonomy and equality.").





n274.  Akbar, supra note 33, at 876-82.





n275.  Carrots and sticks, such as help with immigration matters, or placement
on the No Fly List, have been used to induce cooperation with other methods of
policing radicalization. Akbar, supra note 33, at 863 n.214, 879-80.





n276.  Kundnani, supra note 269, at 18.





n277.  Hearing on "Ending Racial Profiling in America," Brennan Center (Apr. 17,
2012), www. brennancenter.org/sites/default/files/legacy/Justice/LNS/Brenna
nCenter_ERPA.pdf.





n278.  While it is beyond the scope of this Article, Bill Stuntz's observation
about the distributive effects of the Fourth Amendment is worthy of note. The
Fourth Amendment "takes the privacy people have, and uses it to define the
privacy that the police cannot invade without some good cause." William J.
Stuntz, The Distribution of Fourth Amendment Privacy, 67 Geo. Wash. L. Rev.
1265, 1269 (1999). In middle-class and wealthy neighborhoods, "police
investigations involve entry into houses, cars, and offices," whereas in poor
urban environments, the investigations involve "apartments, buses, [] shop
floors" and street encounters. Id. at 1270-74. Because poor people have less
privacy and less space - dynamics exacerbated in the city environment - police
encounters are less regulated by the Fourth Amendment than when police aim to
regulate the middle-class and wealthy. Cf. State v. Mooney, 588 A.2d 145 (Conn.
1991) (holding that a homeless person has a reasonable expectation of privacy in
his duffel bag and closed cardboard box located under a highway bridge, as these
objects constituted his home).

   Much of what we know about national security policing involves police
approaching Muslims in their homes, mosques, and community institutions - rather
than the street, the locus of active life in many impoverished communities, and
the site of traditional community policing initiatives. In contrast, community
engagement is more focused on communal social life that does occur in homes,
business, and mosques - spaces in theory protected by the Fourth Amendment
warrant rule. See, e.g., Tom Lininger, Sects, Lies, and Videotape: The
Surveillance and Infiltration of Religious Groups, 89 Iowa L. Rev. 1201, 1249
n.222 (2004) (citing United States v. Aguilar, 883 F.2d 662 (9th Cir. 1989)).





n279.  See Mary I. Coombs, The Constricted Meaning of "Community" in Community
Policing, 72 St. John's L. Rev. 1367, 1372-73 (1998) (finding that a community
policing model empowers those who wish to work with the police at the expense of
those who want more control over the police).





n280.  Harris, supra note 25, at 188-89 (discussing the importance of not
underestimating the heterogeneity of Muslim communities in Muslim-law
enforcement partnerships); see Innes, supra note 61, at 230-31 ("There are now
three Mosques in [town name] and those three Mosques obviously mean that the
groups that go to each of those Mosques follow something slightly different. So
you've effectively got three community groups within the culture of Muslims
immediately in one particular area." (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n281.  E.g., Pew Research Ctr., Muslim Americans: Middle Class and Mostly
Mainstream 15, 69 (2007),
http://www.pewresearch.org/files/old-assets/pdf/muslim-americans .pdf; William
Finnegan, New in Town: The Somalis of Lewiston, New Yorker, Dec. 11, 2006, at
46, available at http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2006/12/11/new-in-town-2.





n282.  Empowering Local Partners, supra note 40; Huq, supra note 25, at 671.





n283.  See infra text accompanying note 53.





n284.  See infra Parts I.A, II.B.1.





n285.  Huq, supra note 25, at 671 ("The track record of post-2001
counterterrorism plainly evinces a heightened focus on individuals or groups
perceived to be Muslim or of an ethnicity (such as Arab or South Asian) that
proxies for a Muslim identity."). Id. ("By contrast, over the past four years,
the Department of Homeland Security has "cut the number of personnel studying
domestic terrorism unrelated to Islam, canceled numerous state and local law
enforcement briefings, and held up dissemination of nearly a dozen reports on
extremist groups under pressure from politically conservative groups who object
to any federal attention on right-wing militias."); see also Akbar, supra note
33, at 823 n.44.





n286.  See e.g., Memorandum from the Fed. Bureau of Investigations's Oakland
Resident Agency, supra note 17, at 2-3 (referring to efforts with the Pakistani
community); Starting a Conversation, supra note 120.





n287.  See U.S. Comm'n on Civil Rights, supra note 113, at 14.





n288.  See Wadie E. Said, The Material Support Prosecution and Foreign Policy,
86 Ind. L.J. 543, 545 (2011) (framing "terrorism enforcement as a kind of
foreign policy tool").





n289.  Working With Communities Hearing, supra note 40, at 10 (statement of
Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights & Civil Liberties, Dep't. of Homeland
Sec.) (stating that the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties "has developed relationships with Somali American
leaders in San Diego, Seattle, and Lewiston (Maine), and includes them in the
regular roundtables where possible and in bi-monthly community conference calls"
(statement of Margo Schlanger, Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties,
Department of Homeland Security)). The FBI's Boston Field Office, with the local
U.S. Attorney, provides resume-writing assistance for Somali American youth and
self-defense lessons to Somali American women. Sullivan, supra note 146.





n290.  See Foreign Terrorist Organizations, U.S. Dep't St.,
http://www.state.gov/j/ct/rls/other/des/ 123085.htm (last visited Mar. 18,
2015).





n291.  See, e.g., Karen Greenberg, The US Is Not a Target of al-Shabaab,
Guardian (Sept. 24, 2013, 11:11 AM),
http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/sep/24/kenya-attack-us-target-shab
aab.





n292.  See, e.g., Marc Santora & Stephanie Clifford, 3 Brooklyn Men Accused of
Plot to Aid ISIS' Fight, N.Y. Times (Feb. 25, 2015) (discribing how three men
attempting to travel abroad were charged with material support); Schmitt, supra
note 24 (describing tension between U.S. government's community engagement
efforts with Muslim youth and heightened security measures that have targeted
and disillusioned the same group of youth); infra text accompanying note 29.





n293.  See Davis, supra note 58 (""This focus solely on attacks committed by
Arabs or Muslims reinforces the stereotype of Arab-and Muslim-Americans as
security threats, and thus perpetuates hate of the respected communities.'"
(quoting Samer Khalaf, President of American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee)).





n294.  Kundnani, supra note 269, at 18. Similar dynamics are often at work in
community policing initiatives. Lyons, supra note 160, at 172-73, 198 (observing
that Seattle community policing initiatives favored white, middle-class, small
business owners).





n295.  The financial mechanics have yet to be documented, but there are clues
regarding potential forms it might take. See Kundnani, supra note 269, at 18
(identifying a partner of the FBI in Houston who is "a key source of private
funding for mosques in the Muslim community"); City of Saint Paul Police Dep't,
supra note 221; Nat'l Counterterrorism Ctr., supra note 35, at 16 (laying out
funding strategies for CVE programs, with advantage and disadvantages to various
approaches); Paul McEnroe, Twin Cities Muslim Leaders Challenge Federal Outreach
Effort as Cloak for Spying, StarTribune (Feb. 17, 2015, 11:32 PM),
http://www.startribune.com/local/minneapolis/ 292307031.html (explaining that
the DOJ is "funding outreach programs in Boston and Los Angeles for one year to
gauge what kinds of mentoring and after-school programs can help dissuade young
American Muslims from joining extremist groups or leaving to fight in the Middle
East"); Press Release, Walker to Introduce Legislation to Assist State, Locals
in Countering Violent Extremism, Committee on Homeland Security (Feb. 19, 2015),
http://homeland.house.gov/press-release/walker-introduce-legislation-assist-stat
e-locals- countering-violent-extremism; Countering Violent Extremism Grants Act,
H.R. 1022, 114th Cong. (2015), available at https://www.con
gress.gov/114/bills/hr1022/BILLS-114hr1022ih.pdf.





n296.  E.g., CAIR et al., Joint Statement, supra note 265 ("By choosing which
community and religious partners to fund or collaborate with, the government may
directly or indirectly be perceived as advancing one ideology or set of beliefs
over others."); Kundnani, supra note 204, 10-27 (discussing the British
context).





n297.  See Currier, supra note 20.





n298.  See id.





n299.  See id.





n300.  Kundnani, supra note 204, at 6; Rascoff, supra note 25, at 159-61.





n301.  Hedieh Mirahmadi & Mehreen Farooq, World Org. for Res. Dev. & Educ., A
Community-Based Approach to Countering Radicalization: A Partnership for America
20-21 (2010),
http://www.worde.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/WORDE-Counter-Radicalization-Rep
ort-Final.pdf; Rascoff, supra note 25. But cf. Kundnani, supra note 269, at 20
(arguing that PVE creates an atmosphere that suppresses any criticism of the war
on terror, which ultimately leads Muslim youth to seek out extremists who will
listen to their political opinions).





n302.  Coombs, supra note 279, at 1372-73; see, e.g., Thacher, supra note 117,
at 783 (finding that despite Community Advisory Committee members' outreach
efforts to minority neighborhoods, distrust between Knoxville Blacks and the
police resulted in low Black participation in community crime control meetings);
Lyons, supra note 160, at 172-73, 198 (observing that Seattle's community
policing initiative "excluded more critical voices").





n303.  One study in Chicago came to different conclusions. It found that those
who regularly attended community policing beat meetings were "more inclined than
occasional participants or nonattenders to be upbeat about their communities and
the police and to be involved in local affairs." U.S. Dep't of Justice, Nat'l
Inst. of Justice, Public Involvement: Community Policing in Chicago 12-17
(2000), https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/ 179557.pdf (noting that Blacks were
most involved in local groups, then whites - with Latinos "dramatically less
likely than others to report being involved," and that home ownership and length
of residence was also positively correlated with civic engagement). People with
higher incomes and more education were more likely to think the initiative was
having an effect. Id. at 17. The study also found attendance rates highest in
predominantly Black areas and lowest in white areas. Rates of attendance were
highest in low-income and higher crime areas. Id. at 20.





n304.  A successful grant proposal by the St. Paul police department for DOJ
funding to adopt a CVE approach in ongoing outreach efforts with American
Somalis reads: "the team will also identify radicalized individuals, gang
members, and violent offenders who refuse to cooperate with our [community
engagement] efforts." City of Saint Paul Police Dep't, supra note 221, at 4.





n305.  Letter from Steven M. Martinez, Assistant Dir. in Charge, FBI L.A. Field
Office, to Shakeel Syed, Islamic Shura Council of S. Cal. (July 19, 2010) (on
file with author) (explaining that the FBI had cut off ties with CAIR, not
viewing them as "an appropriate liaison partner," at the national and local
level after the organization had been listed as an unindicted coconspirator in
federal prosecution against the Holy Land Foundation). See also Paul Vitello &
Kirk Semple, Muslims Say F.B.I. Tactics Sow Anger and Fear, N.Y. Times (Dec. 17,
2009), http://www.nytimes. com/2009/12/18/us/18muslims.html.





n306.  Letter from Steven M. Martinez, supra note 305.





n307.  Letter from Laura W. Murphy, Dir., ACLU Wash. Legislative Office, et al.,
to Michael E. Horowitz, Inspector Gen., U.S. Dep't of Justice (Oct. 7, 2013),
available at
https://www.aclu.org/files/assets/2013-10-07_-_aclu_letter_to_oig_re_
general_review_of_ fbi_interactions_with_cair.pdf (pointing out that CAIR has
never been charged with a crime). See also Paul Vitello & Kirk Semple, Muslims
Say F.B.I. Tactics Sow Anger and Fear, N.Y. Times (Dec. 17, 2009),
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/18/us/18muslims.html.





n308.  Watanabe & Esquivel, supra note 206. See Muslim Pub. Affairs Council,
Safe Spaces Initiative: Tools for Developing Healthy Communities (2014),
http://www.mpac. org/assets/docs/publications/MPAC-Safe-Spaces-full.pdf; see
also Radicalization Conference 2010 Agenda, RegOnline,
https://www.regonline.com/builder/site/tab2.aspx?EventID=890071 (last visited
Mar. 18, 2015) (showing the "Radicalization and Homegrown Violent Extremism"
conference agenda and listing MPAC as the only community-based organization).





n309.  See generally Lyons, supra note 160, 15-17 (community policing's
"political utility to the state can be found in its cultivated ambiguities,
nostalgia, and romance").





n310.  Henderson et al., supra note 25, at 14; Shamas & Arastu, supra note 83,
at 16.





n311.  Shamas & Arastu, supra note 83; Akbar, supra note 245.





n312.  See, e.g., First Amended Complaint, Tanvir v. Holder, No. 13-CV-6951
(S.D.N.Y. filed Apr. 22, 2014); Hassan v. New York, No. 2:12-3401(WJM), 2014 WL
654604 (D.N.J. Feb. 20, 2014); Raza v. New York, 998 F. Supp. 2d 70 (E.D.N.Y.
2013); H.G. Reza, Area Islamic Groups Sue the FBI; Muslim Leaders Contend the
Agency Withheld Information About Alleged Surveillance, L.A. Times, Sept. 19,
2007, at B4.





n313.  Schmitt, supra note 24.





n314.  Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).





n315.  See Sabrina Siddiqui, Muslims Call for Boycott of White House Iftar Over
Gaza Conflict, NSA Spying, Huffington Post (July 14, 2014, 11:59 PM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/07/ 14/white-house-muslims_n_5585851.html;
Hena Zuberi, A Date With Obama: The White House Iftar: Inclusion or Delusion,
Muslim Matters (July 25, 2014), http://muslimmatters.org/2014/
07/25/a-date-with-obama-the-white-house-iftar-inclusion-or-delusion; see also
Sahar Aziz, The New Generation of Muslim American Leaders, Al Jazeera (July 24,
2014),
http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/opinion/2014/07/new-generation-muslim-american-
2014723143141881797.html.





n316.  Juliet Eilperin, Arab American Group Urges Boycott of White House Iftar
Dinner, Wash. Post (July 14, 2014),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-politics/wp/2014/07/14/arab-american-gr
oup-urges-boycott-of- white-house-iftar-dinner; Faisal Qazi, The White House
Iftar - Why the Debate?, Patheos (July 17, 2014),
http://www.patheos.com/blogs/altmuslim/2014/07/the-white-house-iftar-boycott-why
-the-debate.





n317.  Amani Al-Khatahtbeh, Why We Called for a Boycott of the White House
Iftar, Huffington Post (July 24, 2014, 1:22 PM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/amani-alkhatahtbeh/boycott-of-the-white-house-ifta
r_b_5615167.html; see Nihad Awad, I Am a Muslim-American Leader, and the NSA
Spied on Me, Time (July 9, 2014),
http://time.com/2970573/muslim-american-nsa-spies; Glenn Greenwald & Murtaza
Hussain, Meet the Muslim-American Leaders the FBI and NSA Have Been Spying on,
Intercept (July 8, 2014),
https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2014/07/09/under-surveillance.





n318.  Eilperin, supra note 316 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also
Al-Khatahtbeh, supra note 317 ("I want to have a seat at the table -- one where
we can actually have a meaningful discussion about the real issues at hand. Not
one where dinner is served.").





n319.  See, e.g., Tarik Takkesh, Why I, a Palestinian-American Muslim, Went to
the White House Iftar and What I Learned, Mondoweiss (July 18, 2014),
http://mondoweiss.net/2014/07/palestinian-american-learned ("I intended to talk
to the President about the very issues that made me question my government's
commitment to equal rights and protection for all its citizens, especially
marginalized minorities.").





n320.  Davis, supra note 58 (noting that even among attendees, "human rights
activists" worried that CVE programs "could morph into fearmongering closet
surveillance efforts that trample on civil rights and privacy").





n321.  CAIR et al., Joint Statement, supra note 265. The statement also raised
concerns that "the process for planning and organizing this summit has furthered
the sense of mistrust already felt by American Muslim communities" because the
administration's approach to CVE was neither consultative nor transparent. Id.
The statement also complained that the administration had not responded to a
prior letter raising concerns with CVE. Id. For the contents of the letter
referred to in the statement, see Letter from ACLU et al. to Lisa O. Monaco,
supra note 29. The U.S. Council of Muslim Organizations also adopted concerns
about CVE. Press Release: Muslim Council Adopts Points on Countering Violent
Extremism (Feb. 17, 2015), http://www.uscmo.org/ pressreleases/.





n322.  CAIR et al., Joint Statement, supra note 265. The statement went to pains
to explain that "attendance at the summit by any of the undersigned groups does
not constitute endorsement of the CVE framework or of the summit itself." Id.





n323.  Muslim Student Ass'n W., Muslim Student Associations Across CA Against
Federal Government's Countering Violent Extremism Programs, MSA W. Email
Campaign Archive (Feb. 21, 2015),
http://us4.campaign-archive2.com/?u=30d739eaae2442c8d20aad278&id=f41ebab4e7&amp
;e= %5BUNIQID.





n324.  This may also have implications for perceptions of procedural justice.
Stephen J. Schulhofer, Tom R. Tyler and Aziz Z. Huq have demonstrated in an
extensive study of Muslims in the New York City area that "religiosity, cultural
differences, or political background," "strength of identification with the
Muslim community," and "disagreement with American government policies on Iraq,
Afghanistan, and Israel" do not "play a significant role in determining
willingness to cooperate." Stephen J. Schulhofer et al., American Policing at a
Crossroads: Unsustainable Policies and the Procedural Justice Alternative, 101
J. Crim. L. & Criminology 335, 370 (2011). Instead, "as in the case of
conventional law enforcement, [there is] a strong association between
willingness to cooperate with anti-terrorism policing and perceptions of
procedural justice." Id. at 370. See also id. at 345 ("Perceived legitimacy is
assessed by asking people to express their degree of faith in various public
institutions, as measured by their belief that officials are trustworthy,
concerned about the welfare of those with whom they deal, able to protect
citizens against crime, and otherwise do their jobs well. People who express a
high degree of confidence in public authorities comply with the law either
because of social influence (they want to avoid the disapproval of their social
group) or because of internalized moral norms (they want to see themselves as
decent people who do the right thing).").





n325.  For more on this idea, see Jocelyn Simonson, Copwatching, 104 Cal. L.
Rev. (forthcoming 2016), draft available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=2571470.


                               5 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Police Radar for Crimes They Might Commit

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON and TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; John Eligon reported from Kansas
City, Mo., and Timothy Williams from New York City.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1745 words


KANSAS CITY, Mo. --  At the request of his probation officer, Tyrone C. Brown
came to a community auditorium here in June and sat alongside about 30 other
mostly young black men with criminal records -- men who were being watched
closely by the police, just as he was.

He expected to hear an admonition from law enforcement officials to help end
violence in the community. But Mr. Brown, 29, got more than he had bargained
for. A police captain presented a slide show featuring mug shots of people they
were cracking down on. Up popped a picture of Mr. Brown linking him to a
criminal group that had been implicated in a homicide.

''I was disturbed,'' said Mr. Brown, who acknowledges having been involved in
crime but denied that he had ever been involved in a killing.

That discomfort was just the reaction the authorities were after.

Mr. Brown, whose criminal record includes drug and assault charges, is at the
center of an experiment taking place in dozens of police departments across the
country, one in which the authorities have turned to complex computer algorithms
to try to pinpoint the people most likely to be involved in future violent
crimes -- as either predator or prey. The goal is to do all they can to prevent
the crime from happening.

The strategy, known as predictive policing, combines elements of traditional
policing, like increased attention to crime ''hot spots'' and close monitoring
of recent parolees. But it often also uses other data, including information
about friendships, social media activity and drug use, to identify ''hot
people'' and aid the authorities in forecasting crime.

The program here has been named the Kansas City No Violence Alliance, or KC
NoVA. And the message on that June night to Mr. Brown and the others was simple:
The next time they, or anyone in their crews, commit a violent act, the police
will come after everyone in the group for whatever offense they can make stick,
no matter how petty.

Such was the case for Mario Glenn, a 28-year-old with a criminal history that
includes drug trafficking and assault. After he attended a program meeting,
called a call-in, last year, he was caught during a police sting to take down a
group implicated in several homicides. Mr. Glenn robbed a confidential informer
trying to buy a gun from him, the police said. He has been convicted, and
prosecutors are now seeking the maximum 30-year prison sentence.

''We have a moral reason to do a better job at addressing violence in this
community,'' said Jean Peters Baker, the prosecutor for Jackson County, which
includes Kansas City. ''I don't know that this will work, but we need to try.''

The use of computer models by local law enforcement agencies to forecast crime
is part of a larger trend by governments and corporations that are increasingly
turning to predictive analytics and data mining in looking at behaviors.
Typically financed by the federal government, the strategy is being used by
dozens of police departments -- including Los Angeles, Miami and Nashville --
and district attorneys' offices in Manhattan and Philadelphia.

At a time when many police departments are under fire for aggressive tactics,
particularly in minority neighborhoods, advocates say predictive policing can
help improve police-community relations by focusing on the people most likely to
become involved in violent crime.

Civil liberties groups take a dim view of the strategy, questioning its legality
and efficacy, and asserting that it may actually worsen the rapport between the
police and civilians.

Ezekiel Edwards, the director of the Criminal Law Reform Project of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said predictive policing tended to legitimize the
profiling of racial minorities who live in poor, high-crime neighborhoods, and
prompted officers to enforce laws selectively.

''Our concern is guilt by association,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''Because you live in
a certain neighborhood or hang out with certain people, we are now going to be
suspicious of you and treat you differently, not because you have committed a
crime or because we have information that allows us to arrest you, but because
our predictive tool shows us you might commit a crime at some point in the
future.''

But researchers working with the police to develop the predictive algorithms say
that they can come closer than traditional detective work to figuring out who is
most apt to break the law. They say criminals commit violent crimes in fairly
distinctive patterns and often have similar attributes. Those include previous
arrests; unemployment; an unstable home life; friends and relatives who have
been killed, are in prison or have gang ties; and problems with drugs or
alcohol.

In Chicago, the police have developed a ''heat list'' of 400 people who are
considered far more likely than the average person to be involved in violent
crime. Factors in compiling that list included their criminal records, social
circles and gang connections. Also a factor was whether they had been victims of
an assault or a shooting.

''These are the people with the highest propensity for violence in the city of
Chicago,'' said Robert J. Tracy, chief of crime control strategies for the
Chicago Police Department.

In the year since its program has been fully in place, Kansas City has had a
significant decrease in homicides. The city had averaged 114 homicides a year
over a four-and-a-half-decade period through 2013. And the number of murders
hovered over 100 in the roughly five years before NoVA's inception. But murders
plummeted to 80 last year, a 20 percent drop from 2013. While assaults with guns
also decreased last year, overall assaults increased.

Whether those changes were linked to NoVA is difficult to say, because
fluctuations in crime are almost always a result of multiple factors. At the
same time, a report released recently by the University of Missouri-Kansas City
found that while crime decreased drastically early last year as NoVA was fully
in place, the drop tapered off. It is too soon to determine if decreased crime
will be a long-term trend, the report said.

In other places, the success of the algorithms has been spotty or difficult to
assess.

John S. Hollywood, a senior operations researcher at the RAND Corporation, said
that in the limited number of studies undertaken to measure the efficacy of
predictive policing, the improvement in forecasting crimes had been only 5 or 10
percent better than regular policing methods.

The Memphis police force, a pioneer in predictive policing, has worked with the
University of Memphis for about a decade to forecast crime by noting time and
location of episodes and information about victims. Officers then flood those
areas with marked and undercover police cars, and also increase traffic stops,
the department said.

But violent crime has proved stubborn in Memphis, and the city continues to be
one of the most dangerous places in the nation, according to F.B.I. data.

In Kansas City, NoVA officials gather about 30 to 40 patrol officers about once
a quarter to discuss and examine intelligence gathered on the street -- details
not necessarily captured in official documents. The information often comes from
informal conversations that officers have with people on the street about things
like who is arguing and who might have committed a violent crime.

The authorities have identified about 930 people who belong to 57 criminal
groups in the city, said Maj. Joe McHale, the project leader for NoVA, who also
commands the Police Department's violent crime division. And there are about 125
people whom the authorities consider central figures in those groups, he said.
The Kansas City authorities say they hope that if their zero tolerance for
violence message gets through to these influential figures, it will be passed on
to others who listen to them.

One of those powerful individuals, according to the police, was Mr. Brown, who
said he began selling drugs at 14 because he was raised in poverty by a
crack-addicted single mother.

When he was first drawn into the program, said Mr. Brown, who most recently
served jail time for robbery, his probation officer told him he had to go to the
June meeting, which is known as a call-in.

Call-ins are central to the program. The authorities invite about 120 of the
group leaders they have identified (25 to 40 usually show up) to hear from a
range of officials, including the local and federal prosecutors, the police
chief and the mayor.

During an August call-in, the speakers told the men that this was their last
chance. Tammy Dickinson, the United States attorney for the Western District of
Missouri, related the story of a man in the program who was given a 15-year
prison sentence for being caught with a bullet in his pocket. Another man, she
said, got 25 years for having recreational designer drugs known as bath salts
and posting a photograph of himself with a gun on Facebook.

A week after the June call-in, a social worker called Mr. Brown into a meeting.
He said his heart was thumping when he entered the room and saw several police
officers waiting for him.

''We know that you are the head of this and of that,'' Mr. Brown recalled the
officers telling him. ''If we can change you, you can change them.''

People who have gotten in trouble with the law often think they can keep getting
away with minor offenses without serious consequences, said Mr. Brown, whose
nickname, Bird, slang for a brick of cocaine, came from his drug dealing. But
what resonated with him, he said, was the NoVA team saying that harsh penalties
will be imposed for even petty slights once warnings have been given.

Mr. Brown has come to see some benefit in the program. NoVA officials have
helped him find housing, he said, and pushed him to get a job -- he now works as
a delivery driver for Back Porch Bar-B-Q. The authorities connected him with a
program to help him pay child support -- he has four children ranging from 4
months to 7 years. And he works with young people to help keep them out of
trouble.

Still, Mr. Brown is hardly in the clear. Domestic assault charges are pending
against him after his girlfriend accused him of choking her and hitting her head
against a door last year, according to court documents.

Shaking loose from past misdeeds can be challenging, Major McHale said.

''Sometimes you can't get away from things that you've done,'' he said, ''even
though you turned a new leaf.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/25/us/police-program-aims-to-pinpoint-those-most-
likely-to-commit-crimes.html

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tyrone C. Brown, 29, held his son Tylin, 2, at a community
picnic that he helped organize last month in Kansas City, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NICK SCHNELLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 13 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 19, 2015 Saturday 8:02 AM GMT

A city held hostage: did the LA bomb threat reveal our urban vulnerability?;
This week, New York and LA reacted very differently to the same bomb scare. So
how does a city judge how seriously to take them - and are we in danger of
becoming weakened not just by terrorism but even just the threat of it?

BYLINE: Robert Muggah

SECTION: CITIES

LENGTH: 1522 words


A handful of shoddily written  emails spread shock waves across the US last
week. The threats were familiar, warning of gunfire, backpack bombs and mayhem
in New York and Los Angeles schools. Sent at 1.20am EST, the messages were
routed electronically through Germany, though the author's whereabouts are still
unknown.

The two cities responded in dramatically opposing fashion. The Los Angeles
Unified School District shut down more than 1,000 facilities, preventing over
640,000 children from attending class. Officials searched 1,500 buildings and
police patrols were expanded throughout the week. The price tag was estimated at
$29m, but could cost much more.

New York, on the other hand, swiftly dismissed the threats as a hoax. Their
assessment was made possible by the city's massive investments in
counter-terrorism capabilities following 9/11. The tough-talking chief of
police, William Bratton, suggested the sender had indulged in too many episodes
of Homeland.

Though called out by New York's mayor for overreacting, LA can hardly be faulted
for taking the terrorist threat seriously - it came on the heels of this month's
massacre of 14 people in San Bernardino, less than 50 miles from LA, and
counter-terrorism experts have been expecting attacks for months.

The goal is to shut cities down, separate people from one another and push them
into mental fortresses

David Kilcullen

Nevertheless, the jittery reaction seemed to reveal a chink in our cities'
armour - a vulnerability not just to terror attacks, but to the mere threat of
such attacks. Post-Paris, the sense of unease is pervasive. US Homeland Security
regularly issues alerts - including last week's warning of "self-radicalised
actors who could strike with little or no notice" - that come without any
specific information. There are dozens of warnings a day. Law enforcement
agencies are bogged down. And the probability of actual attacks seems to be
growing.

Which means that, pranksters or not, terrorists are inflicting real costs, both
in terms of life and money, on our cities - which is of course the point. In
other words, our increasingly panicky reaction to terror threats mean you can
inflict a degree of damage on a city at the click of a mouse. It's no surprise,
then, that there has been a 158% increase in the number of threats to US schools
in 2014. More than a third of these were sent electronically. Many resulted in
evacuations and shutdowns.

"The goal is to shut [cities] down for as long as possible, separate people from
one another, break down communities, and push them into mental fortresses," says
counter-insurgency specialist David Kilcullen. He believes that cities
themselves are under assault precisely because they are the places that
different communities come together; and the result of the assault is that
different ethnic and religious communities stop trusting one another, and become
more susceptible to exploitation.

Terror in cities is nothing new, of course. LA was rocked by home-made bombs in
1910, and parts of Wall Street were decimated by a wagonful of explosives in
1920. The single deadliest act of domestic terrorism in US history occurred in
Oklahoma in 1995, and with the exception of 9/11 violent attacks in the US are
almost all homegrown. European cities are even more accustomed to it. Well
before al-Qaida and Isis, the people of London, Madrid and Rome were battered
respectively by the IRA, ETA and Anni di Piomi. There were more than 16,000
terrorist attacks in Europe over the past 45 years, according to the University
of Maryland's Global Terrorism Database, most of them during the 1970s and
1980s.

Moreover, it is easy for westerners to forget that the vast majority of
terrorist actions occur elsewhere : a recent study of more than 1,300 cities
ranked Baghdad, Mosul and Ramadi as the most terrorism-prone. It also showed
that cities in Afghanistan, Egypt, Libya, Nigeria, Pakistan and Somalia are far
more vulnerable to devastating violence than those in the UK, France or US. From
2000-2014 there were 3,659 terrorist-related deaths in all western countries
combined. In Iraq, there were 13,076 in 2014 alone.

What can the worst-hit cities teach the rest about how to respond?
Unfortunately, not much: there is no one-size-fits-all response to urban
terrorism. Preventing attacks by lone wolves or sleeper cells in America
requires a very different set of tactics than countering sophisticated networks
of highly trained operatives in an active war zone such as Yemen, where
"terrorists" are more like guerrillas, with highly elaborate operations and
weaponry.

Nevertheless, cities aren't passive. For example, many are installing extra
layers of police surveillance in crowded spaces, and re-routing traffic away
from critical infrastructure. Others are adding unobtrusive adaptations and
reinforcements to city landscapes to reduce blast exposure, installing physical
barriers around government offices and major businesses, and hiring
counter-terrorism advisers. Positive police-community relations are also widely
acknowledged as an  essential feature of counter-terrorism strategy. The goal of
all this is to minimise risk without choking city life altogether. As the saying
has it, that's when the terrorists win.

In the meantime, technology firms are lining up from Baghdad to Boston to equip
city authorities with the software and skills to disrupt terrorism. Today there
are more than 75 data fusion centres in major US cities, which share information
between federal, state and municipal agencies. It is increasingly routine to use
crime forecasting programmes - the Los Angeles Police Department has itself used
predictive policing algorithms since 2013, and is reportedly mapping historical
crime trends to predict future incidents - not without some controversy. New
York, too, launched a controversial cyber intelligence unit that taps into
conversations of potential jihadi recruits. And advanced electronic surveillance
systems are commonplace, from city air terminals to city streets.

Civil liberty specialists are fearful that these measures confuse lines of
authority, undermine privacy legislation and "militarise" law enforcement. "The
real question is how to make a society more resilient in a way that does not
destroy the very way of life in the city," says Kilcullen. After the Paris
killings, French security agencies clamoured for more power - leading to a
backlash from citizens who were unwilling to let terrorism restrict their
freedoms.

So how does a city judge how seriously to take a threat? Why did LA shut down
while New York shrugged? The short answer is that judging a threat is very
difficult. "Each threat needs to be surfaced and addressed in the context of the
public safety officials' existing programmes," says Gary Margolis, CEO of Social
Sentinel, a threat-awareness group focused on schools. "Alert services can
augment the existing safety and security plans within schools, municipalities,
and those responsible for protecting critical infrastructure." By alert
services, he means a new generation of social media monitoring systems - the
tracking of millions of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram feeds to detect would-be
perpetrators who telegraph their intentions.

But the fact is that there are limitations to what physical, policing and
technological enhancements in cities can achieve. Not every bit of critical
infrastructure can be made blast-proof. CCTV cameras may help with
investigations, but likely won't prevent new attacks - although French railway
authorities are planning to roll out up to 40,000 new security cameras that can
monitor excessive body temperature and signs of anxiety, in the somewhat
Orwellian hopes of identifying thought crimes before anyone gets killed.

In truth, there are not many examples of cities getting it right. In Baghdad,
they've essentially resorted to the urban tourniquet of gated communities. In
Tel Aviv, the locals are simply getting used to a heightened threat environment.

Related:  Where are the world's most war-damaged cities?

Martin Powell, a former adviser to the mayor of New York, says the best strategy
is straightforward: "Invest in good planning and coordination, actionable
intelligence and strategies to harden targets." It might be dull, but it
delivers: the New York Police Department claims to have foiled at least 16
terrorist plots since 2001. London says it foiled seven terror plots in October
alone.

But governments cannot be expected to stop every attack. There is a temptation
to erect barricades and build higher walls after each high-profile terrorist
event. "This could create a debilitating culture of fear," says the urban
theorist Richard Florida. In both LA and New York - not to mention most cities
on the planet - urban terror is, real or not, a fact of life. The trick is not
to lock cities down, not to introduce mass surveillance and strangle the city.

Robert Muggah is research director at the Instituto Igarape thinktank in Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, specialising in violence, security and fragile cities

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 13 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 19, 2015 Saturday 8:36 AM GMT

A city held hostage: how the LA bomb threat exposed our urban vulnerability;
This week, New York and LA reacted very differently to the same bomb scare. So
how does a city judge how seriously to take them - and are they in danger of
becoming weakened not just by terrorism but even the threat of it?

BYLINE: Robert Muggah

SECTION: CITIES

LENGTH: 1522 words


A handful of shoddily written  emails spread shock waves across the US last
week. The threats were familiar, warning of gunfire, backpack bombs and mayhem
in New York and Los Angeles schools. Sent at 1.20am EST, the messages were
routed electronically through Germany, though the author's whereabouts are still
unknown.

The two cities responded in dramatically opposing fashion. The Los Angeles
Unified School District shut down more than 1,000 facilities, preventing over
640,000 children from attending class. Officials searched 1,500 buildings and
police patrols were expanded throughout the week. The price tag was estimated at
$29m, but could cost much more.

New York, on the other hand, swiftly dismissed the threats as a hoax. Their
assessment was made possible by the city's massive investments in
counter-terrorism capabilities following 9/11. The tough-talking chief of
police, William Bratton, suggested the sender had indulged in too many episodes
of Homeland.

Though called out by New York's mayor for overreacting, LA can hardly be faulted
for taking the terrorist threat seriously - it came on the heels of this month's
massacre of 14 people in San Bernardino, less than 50 miles from LA, and
counter-terrorism experts have been expecting attacks for months.

The goal is to shut cities down, separate people from one another and push them
into mental fortresses

David Kilcullen

Nevertheless, the jittery reaction seemed to reveal a chink in our cities'
armour - a vulnerability not just to terror attacks, but to the mere threat of
such attacks. Post-Paris, the sense of unease is pervasive. US Homeland Security
regularly issues alerts - including last week's warning of "self-radicalised
actors who could strike with little or no notice" - that come without any
specific information. There are dozens of warnings a day. Law enforcement
agencies are bogged down. And the probability of actual attacks seems to be
growing.

Which means that, pranksters or not, terrorists are inflicting real costs, both
in terms of life and money, on our cities - which is of course the point. In
other words, our increasingly panicky reaction to terror threats mean you can
inflict a degree of damage on a city at the click of a mouse. It's no surprise,
then, that there has been a 158% increase in the number of threats to US schools
in 2014. More than a third of these were sent electronically. Many resulted in
evacuations and shutdowns.

"The goal is to shut [cities] down for as long as possible, separate people from
one another, break down communities, and push them into mental fortresses," says
counter-insurgency specialist David Kilcullen. He believes that cities
themselves are under assault precisely because they are the places that
different communities come together; and the result of the assault is that
different ethnic and religious communities stop trusting one another, and become
more susceptible to exploitation.

Terror in cities is nothing new, of course. LA was rocked by home-made bombs in
1910, and parts of Wall Street were decimated by a wagonful of explosives in
1920. The single deadliest act of domestic terrorism in US history occurred in
Oklahoma in 1995, and with the exception of 9/11 violent attacks in the US are
almost all homegrown. European cities are even more accustomed to it. Well
before al-Qaida and Isis, the people of London, Madrid and Rome were battered
respectively by the IRA, ETA and Anni di Piomi. There were more than 16,000
terrorist attacks in Europe over the past 45 years, according to the University
of Maryland's Global Terrorism Database, most of them during the 1970s and
1980s.

Moreover, it is easy for westerners to forget that the vast majority of
terrorist actions occur elsewhere : a recent study of more than 1,300 cities
ranked Baghdad, Mosul and Ramadi as the most terrorism-prone. It also showed
that cities in Afghanistan, Egypt, Libya, Nigeria, Pakistan and Somalia are far
more vulnerable to devastating violence than those in the UK, France or US. From
2000-2014 there were 3,659 terrorist-related deaths in all western countries
combined. In Iraq, there were 13,076 in 2014 alone.

What can the worst-hit cities teach the rest about how to respond?
Unfortunately, not much: there is no one-size-fits-all response to urban
terrorism. Preventing attacks by lone wolves or sleeper cells in America
requires a very different set of tactics than countering sophisticated networks
of highly trained operatives in an active war zone such as Yemen, where
"terrorists" are more like guerrillas, with highly elaborate operations and
weaponry.

Nevertheless, cities aren't passive. For example, many are installing extra
layers of police surveillance in crowded spaces, and re-routing traffic away
from critical infrastructure. Others are adding unobtrusive adaptations and
reinforcements to city landscapes to reduce blast exposure, installing physical
barriers around government offices and major businesses, and hiring
counter-terrorism advisers. Positive police-community relations are also widely
acknowledged as an  essential feature of counter-terrorism strategy. The goal of
all this is to minimise risk without choking city life altogether. As the saying
has it, that's when the terrorists win.

In the meantime, technology firms are lining up from Baghdad to Boston to equip
city authorities with the software and skills to disrupt terrorism. Today there
are more than 75 data fusion centres in major US cities, which share information
between federal, state and municipal agencies. It is increasingly routine to use
crime forecasting programmes - the Los Angeles Police Department has itself used
predictive policing algorithms since 2013, and is reportedly mapping historical
crime trends to predict future incidents - not without some controversy. New
York, too, launched a controversial cyber intelligence unit that taps into
conversations of potential jihadi recruits. And advanced electronic surveillance
systems are commonplace, from city air terminals to city streets.

Civil liberty specialists are fearful that these measures confuse lines of
authority, undermine privacy legislation and "militarise" law enforcement. "The
real question is how to make a society more resilient in a way that does not
destroy the very way of life in the city," says Kilcullen. After the Paris
killings, French security agencies clamoured for more power - leading to a
backlash from citizens who were unwilling to let terrorism restrict their
freedoms.

So how does a city judge how seriously to take a threat? Why did LA shut down
while New York shrugged? The short answer is that judging a threat is very
difficult. "Each threat needs to be surfaced and addressed in the context of the
public safety officials' existing programmes," says Gary Margolis, CEO of Social
Sentinel, a threat-awareness group focused on schools. "Alert services can
augment the existing safety and security plans within schools, municipalities,
and those responsible for protecting critical infrastructure." By alert
services, he means a new generation of social media monitoring systems - the
tracking of millions of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram feeds to detect would-be
perpetrators who telegraph their intentions.

But the fact is that there are limitations to what physical, policing and
technological enhancements in cities can achieve. Not every bit of critical
infrastructure can be made blast-proof. CCTV cameras may help with
investigations, but likely won't prevent new attacks - although French railway
authorities are planning to roll out up to 40,000 new security cameras that can
monitor excessive body temperature and signs of anxiety, in the somewhat
Orwellian hopes of identifying thought crimes before anyone gets killed.

In truth, there are not many examples of cities getting it right. In Baghdad,
they've essentially resorted to the urban tourniquet of gated communities. In
Tel Aviv, the locals are simply getting used to a heightened threat environment.

Related:  Where are the world's most war-damaged cities?

Martin Powell, a former adviser to the mayor of New York, says the best strategy
is straightforward: "Invest in good planning and coordination, actionable
intelligence and strategies to harden targets." It might be dull, but it
delivers: the New York Police Department claims to have foiled at least 16
terrorist plots since 2001. London says it foiled seven terror plots in October
alone.

But governments cannot be expected to stop every attack. There is a temptation
to erect barricades and build higher walls after each high-profile terrorist
event. "This could create a debilitating culture of fear," says the urban
theorist Richard Florida. In both LA and New York - not to mention most cities
on the planet - urban terror is, real or not, a fact of life. The trick is not
to lock cities down, not to introduce mass surveillance and strangle the city.

Robert Muggah is research director at the Instituto Igarape thinktank in Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, specialising in violence, security and fragile cities

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 13 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 19, 2015 Saturday 8:55 AM GMT

A city held hostage: how the LA bomb threat exposed our urban vulnerability;
This week, New York and LA reacted very differently to the same bomb scare. So
how does a city judge how seriously to take such threats - and is it really that
easy to bring a major metropolis to a halt?

BYLINE: Robert Muggah

SECTION: CITIES

LENGTH: 1522 words


A handful of shoddily written  emails spread shock waves across the US last
week. The threats were familiar, warning of gunfire, backpack bombs and mayhem
in New York and Los Angeles schools. Sent at 1.20am EST, the messages were
routed electronically through Germany, though the author's whereabouts are still
unknown.

The two cities responded in dramatically opposing fashion. The Los Angeles
Unified School District shut down more than 1,000 facilities, preventing over
640,000 children from attending class. Officials searched 1,500 buildings and
police patrols were expanded throughout the week. The price tag was estimated at
$29m, but could cost much more.

New York, on the other hand, swiftly dismissed the threats as a hoax. Their
assessment was made possible by the city's massive investments in
counter-terrorism capabilities following 9/11. The tough-talking chief of
police, William Bratton, suggested the sender had indulged in too many episodes
of Homeland.

Though called out by New York's mayor for overreacting, LA can hardly be faulted
for taking the terrorist threat seriously - it came on the heels of this month's
massacre of 14 people in San Bernardino, less than 50 miles from LA, and
counter-terrorism experts have been expecting attacks for months.

The goal is to shut cities down, separate people from one another and push them
into mental fortresses

David Kilcullen

Nevertheless, the jittery reaction seemed to reveal a chink in our cities'
armour - a vulnerability not just to terror attacks, but to the mere threat of
such attacks. Post-Paris, the sense of unease is pervasive. US Homeland Security
regularly issues alerts - including last week's warning of "self-radicalised
actors who could strike with little or no notice" - that come without any
specific information. There are dozens of warnings a day. Law enforcement
agencies are bogged down. And the probability of actual attacks seems to be
growing.

Which means that, pranksters or not, terrorists are inflicting real costs, both
in terms of life and money, on our cities - which is of course the point. In
other words, our increasingly panicky reaction to terror threats mean you can
inflict a degree of damage on a city at the click of a mouse. It's no surprise,
then, that there has been a 158% increase in the number of threats to US schools
in 2014. More than a third of these were sent electronically. Many resulted in
evacuations and shutdowns.

"The goal is to shut [cities] down for as long as possible, separate people from
one another, break down communities, and push them into mental fortresses," says
counter-insurgency specialist David Kilcullen. He believes that cities
themselves are under assault precisely because they are the places that
different communities come together; and the result of the assault is that
different ethnic and religious communities stop trusting one another, and become
more susceptible to exploitation.

Terror in cities is nothing new, of course. LA was rocked by home-made bombs in
1910, and parts of Wall Street were decimated by a wagonful of explosives in
1920. The single deadliest act of domestic terrorism in US history occurred in
Oklahoma in 1995, and with the exception of 9/11 violent attacks in the US are
almost all homegrown. European cities are even more accustomed to it. Well
before al-Qaida and Isis, the people of London, Madrid and Rome were battered
respectively by the IRA, ETA and Anni di Piomi. There were more than 16,000
terrorist attacks in Europe over the past 45 years, according to the University
of Maryland's Global Terrorism Database, most of them during the 1970s and
1980s.

Moreover, it is easy for westerners to forget that the vast majority of
terrorist actions occur elsewhere : a recent study of more than 1,300 cities
ranked Baghdad, Mosul and Ramadi as the most terrorism-prone. It also showed
that cities in Afghanistan, Egypt, Libya, Nigeria, Pakistan and Somalia are far
more vulnerable to devastating violence than those in the UK, France or US. From
2000-2014 there were 3,659 terrorist-related deaths in all western countries
combined. In Iraq, there were 13,076 in 2014 alone.

What can the worst-hit cities teach the rest about how to respond?
Unfortunately, not much: there is no one-size-fits-all response to urban
terrorism. Preventing attacks by lone wolves or sleeper cells in America
requires a very different set of tactics than countering sophisticated networks
of highly trained operatives in an active war zone such as Yemen, where
"terrorists" are more like guerrillas, with highly elaborate operations and
weaponry.

Nevertheless, cities aren't passive. For example, many are installing extra
layers of police surveillance in crowded spaces, and re-routing traffic away
from critical infrastructure. Others are adding unobtrusive adaptations and
reinforcements to city landscapes to reduce blast exposure, installing physical
barriers around government offices and major businesses, and hiring
counter-terrorism advisers. Positive police-community relations are also widely
acknowledged as an  essential feature of counter-terrorism strategy. The goal of
all this is to minimise risk without choking city life altogether. As the saying
has it, that's when the terrorists win.

In the meantime, technology firms are lining up from Baghdad to Boston to equip
city authorities with the software and skills to disrupt terrorism. Today there
are more than 75 data fusion centres in major US cities, which share information
between federal, state and municipal agencies. It is increasingly routine to use
crime forecasting programmes - the Los Angeles Police Department has itself used
predictive policing algorithms since 2013, and is reportedly mapping historical
crime trends to predict future incidents - not without some controversy. New
York, too, launched a controversial cyber intelligence unit that taps into
conversations of potential jihadi recruits. And advanced electronic surveillance
systems are commonplace, from city air terminals to city streets.

Civil liberty specialists are fearful that these measures confuse lines of
authority, undermine privacy legislation and "militarise" law enforcement. "The
real question is how to make a society more resilient in a way that does not
destroy the very way of life in the city," says Kilcullen. After the Paris
killings, French security agencies clamoured for more power - leading to a
backlash from citizens who were unwilling to let terrorism restrict their
freedoms.

So how does a city judge how seriously to take a threat? Why did LA shut down
while New York shrugged? The short answer is that judging a threat is very
difficult. "Each threat needs to be surfaced and addressed in the context of the
public safety officials' existing programmes," says Gary Margolis, CEO of Social
Sentinel, a threat-awareness group focused on schools. "Alert services can
augment the existing safety and security plans within schools, municipalities,
and those responsible for protecting critical infrastructure." By alert
services, he means a new generation of social media monitoring systems - the
tracking of millions of Facebook, Twitter and Instagram feeds to detect would-be
perpetrators who telegraph their intentions.

But the fact is that there are limitations to what physical, policing and
technological enhancements in cities can achieve. Not every bit of critical
infrastructure can be made blast-proof. CCTV cameras may help with
investigations, but likely won't prevent new attacks - although French railway
authorities are planning to roll out up to 40,000 new security cameras that can
monitor excessive body temperature and signs of anxiety, in the somewhat
Orwellian hopes of identifying thought crimes before anyone gets killed.

In truth, there are not many examples of cities getting it right. In Baghdad,
they've essentially resorted to the urban tourniquet of gated communities. In
Tel Aviv, the locals are simply getting used to a heightened threat environment.

Related:  Where are the world's most war-damaged cities?

Martin Powell, a former adviser to the mayor of New York, says the best strategy
is straightforward: "Invest in good planning and coordination, actionable
intelligence and strategies to harden targets." It might be dull, but it
delivers: the New York Police Department claims to have foiled at least 16
terrorist plots since 2001. London says it foiled seven terror plots in October
alone.

But governments cannot be expected to stop every attack. There is a temptation
to erect barricades and build higher walls after each high-profile terrorist
event. "This could create a debilitating culture of fear," says the urban
theorist Richard Florida. In both LA and New York - not to mention most cities
on the planet - urban terror is, real or not, a fact of life. The trick is not
to lock cities down, not to introduce mass surveillance and strangle the city.

Robert Muggah is research director at the Instituto Igarape thinktank in Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, specialising in violence, security and fragile cities

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             April 12, 2015 Sunday

New El Monte police chief: We have to earn public s trust

BYLINE: Brian Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 563 words


EL MONTE >> At a time when police agencies throughout the nation are under
heightened scrutiny, El Monte s new Police Chief David Reynoso says ethical
policing and community relations are the keys to fostering trust in law
enforcement.

A positive relationship between police officials and the communities they serve
is not automatic, said Reynoso, 48, who was sworn in as El Monte s top cop last
week.

The public expects a lot from us. They trust us. And we have to earn the public
s trust,  he said.

And building relationships between police and the community will be Reynoso s
primary focus as he leads the department s 112 officers, he said.

Video: Chief Reynoso on how he came to be El Monte s new police chief

I want to continue to build the trust that s already established in the
community,  Reynoso said.  We need them as our eyes and ears out in the
community.

And the key to fostering community relationships is essentially simple, he said.
Treat people in a fair and respectful manner at all times.

El Monte Mayor Andre Quintero agreed with Reynoso s community policing-based
approach.

A police department is only as successful as the relationships it has with the
community. The people need to feel comfortable that they re there to protect and
serve everybody,  he said.

The mayor described Reynoso s appointment as  historic,  as he is the first
chief selected from outside of the department s ranks. Reynoso joins the
department after 25 years as a Baldwin Park police captain.

As high-profile, and increasingly commonly caught-on-camera police shootings and
incidents bring a heightened public scrutiny of law enforcement officials, the
longtime police veteran said his approach to police work hasn t changed.

I want what all chiefs want, and that is for their personnel to lend themselves
toward ethical, constitutional-based policing whether they are on camera or not,
the chief said.  We expect our officers to conduct themselves in a professional
manner, regardless of being videotaped.

Technology should be viewed as a resource for police, not a challenge, he said.

I think technology as a whole, to include body cams and dash cams are good for
police work,  he said, adding that they preserve a record of what took place,
and the footage can be a valuable training tool.

The El Monte Police Department does not currently outfit its officers with body
cameras.

Reynoso said he hopes to add six additional officers in the near future to bring
the El Department to full force.

What we are looking for in a police recruit is a good, smart, ethical person,
because smart, ethical people become smart, ethical police officers,  Reynoso
said.

Reynoso said he was also excited about a new piece of  predictive policing
technology just now being implemented in El Monte.

Called PredPol, the computer system analyzes historic crime data to help police
deploy resources to areas most likely to need them.

Video: Chief Reynoso on predictive policing

The system is already being used in El Monte, but Reynoso said he looks forward
into full, department-wide implementation.

El Monte City Councilman Juventino  J.  Gomez described Reynoso as  a perfect
match for our community.

When I saw this opportunity, I could not pass up the chance to be part of the
process,  Reynoso said.

There s something different about this department,  he said.  It really is a
family atmosphere.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             April 12, 2015 Sunday

New El Monte police chief: We have to earn public s trust

BYLINE: Brian Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 563 words


EL MONTE >> At a time when police agencies throughout the nation are under
heightened scrutiny, El Monte s new Police Chief David Reynoso says ethical
policing and community relations are the keys to fostering trust in law
enforcement.

A positive relationship between police officials and the communities they serve
is not automatic, said Reynoso, 48, who was sworn in as El Monte s top cop last
week.

The public expects a lot from us. They trust us. And we have to earn the public
s trust,  he said.

And building relationships between police and the community will be Reynoso s
primary focus as he leads the department s 112 officers, he said.

Video: Chief Reynoso on how he came to be El Monte s new police chief

I want to continue to build the trust that s already established in the
community,  Reynoso said.  We need them as our eyes and ears out in the
community.

And the key to fostering community relationships is essentially simple, he said.
Treat people in a fair and respectful manner at all times.

El Monte Mayor Andre Quintero agreed with Reynoso s community policing-based
approach.

A police department is only as successful as the relationships it has with the
community. The people need to feel comfortable that they re there to protect and
serve everybody,  he said.

The mayor described Reynoso s appointment as  historic,  as he is the first
chief selected from outside of the department s ranks. Reynoso joins the
department after 25 years as a Baldwin Park police captain.

As high-profile, and increasingly commonly caught-on-camera police shootings and
incidents bring a heightened public scrutiny of law enforcement officials, the
longtime police veteran said his approach to police work hasn t changed.

I want what all chiefs want, and that is for their personnel to lend themselves
toward ethical, constitutional-based policing whether they are on camera or not,
the chief said.  We expect our officers to conduct themselves in a professional
manner, regardless of being videotaped.

Technology should be viewed as a resource for police, not a challenge, he said.

I think technology as a whole, to include body cams and dash cams are good for
police work,  he said, adding that they preserve a record of what took place,
and the footage can be a valuable training tool.

The El Monte Police Department does not currently outfit its officers with body
cameras.

Reynoso said he hopes to add six additional officers in the near future to bring
the El Department to full force.

What we are looking for in a police recruit is a good, smart, ethical person,
because smart, ethical people become smart, ethical police officers,  Reynoso
said.

Reynoso said he was also excited about a new piece of  predictive policing
technology just now being implemented in El Monte.

Called PredPol, the computer system analyzes historic crime data to help police
deploy resources to areas most likely to need them.

Video: Chief Reynoso on predictive policing

The system is already being used in El Monte, but Reynoso said he looks forward
into full, department-wide implementation.

El Monte City Councilman Juventino  J.  Gomez described Reynoso as  a perfect
match for our community.

When I saw this opportunity, I could not pass up the chance to be part of the
process,  Reynoso said.

There s something different about this department,  he said.  It really is a
family atmosphere.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             April 12, 2015 Sunday

New El Monte police chief: We have to earn public s trust

BYLINE: Brian Day

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 563 words


EL MONTE >> At a time when police agencies throughout the nation are under
heightened scrutiny, El Monte s new Police Chief David Reynoso says ethical
policing and community relations are the keys to fostering trust in law
enforcement.

A positive relationship between police officials and the communities they serve
is not automatic, said Reynoso, 48, who was sworn in as El Monte s top cop last
week.

The public expects a lot from us. They trust us. And we have to earn the public
s trust,  he said.

And building relationships between police and the community will be Reynoso s
primary focus as he leads the department s 112 officers, he said.

Video: Chief Reynoso on how he came to be El Monte s new police chief

I want to continue to build the trust that s already established in the
community,  Reynoso said.  We need them as our eyes and ears out in the
community.

And the key to fostering community relationships is essentially simple, he said.
Treat people in a fair and respectful manner at all times.

El Monte Mayor Andre Quintero agreed with Reynoso s community policing-based
approach.

A police department is only as successful as the relationships it has with the
community. The people need to feel comfortable that they re there to protect and
serve everybody,  he said.

The mayor described Reynoso s appointment as  historic,  as he is the first
chief selected from outside of the department s ranks. Reynoso joins the
department after 25 years as a Baldwin Park police captain.

As high-profile, and increasingly commonly caught-on-camera police shootings and
incidents bring a heightened public scrutiny of law enforcement officials, the
longtime police veteran said his approach to police work hasn t changed.

I want what all chiefs want, and that is for their personnel to lend themselves
toward ethical, constitutional-based policing whether they are on camera or not,
the chief said.  We expect our officers to conduct themselves in a professional
manner, regardless of being videotaped.

Technology should be viewed as a resource for police, not a challenge, he said.

I think technology as a whole, to include body cams and dash cams are good for
police work,  he said, adding that they preserve a record of what took place,
and the footage can be a valuable training tool.

The El Monte Police Department does not currently outfit its officers with body
cameras.

Reynoso said he hopes to add six additional officers in the near future to bring
the El Department to full force.

What we are looking for in a police recruit is a good, smart, ethical person,
because smart, ethical people become smart, ethical police officers,  Reynoso
said.

Reynoso said he was also excited about a new piece of  predictive policing
technology just now being implemented in El Monte.

Called PredPol, the computer system analyzes historic crime data to help police
deploy resources to areas most likely to need them.

Video: Chief Reynoso on predictive policing

The system is already being used in El Monte, but Reynoso said he looks forward
into full, department-wide implementation.

El Monte City Councilman Juventino  J.  Gomez described Reynoso as  a perfect
match for our community.

When I saw this opportunity, I could not pass up the chance to be part of the
process,  Reynoso said.

There s something different about this department,  he said.  It really is a
family atmosphere.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             August 24, 2015 Monday

Police plan tech to predict crime

BYLINE: Raj Shekhar

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 551 words


NEW DELHI: It's like PreCrime, only four decades early. The "predictive policing
" system seen in Tom Cruise-starrer Minority Report is now taking shape in
Delhi. But instead of the three slime-immersed psychic "Precogs" that system
relied on, Delhi Police's crime prediction will be based on cold, hard data.

Once Enterprise Information Integration Solution or 'EI2S'-a system that puts
petabytes of information from more than a dozen crime databases at police
staff's fingertips-is ready, Delhi Police will be able to implement its 'Crime
Forecast' plan to predict when and where criminals will strike.

The technology is not as fanciful as it seems at first and is already being
tried out in many important cities, including New York, Los Angeles, London and
Berlin. Officers associated with the plan say the software will analyze police
data for patterns, compare it with other data from jails, courts and other
crime-fighting agencies, and alert police to the likely threats. Data will be
available not only on the suspects but also their likely victims.

A global tender has been floated for the project and Delhi Police is in talks
with various firms for the technology.

A senior officer told TOI the system can help pre-empt many situations. "For
example, a violent clash between two gangs. It can identify individuals who are
likely to join gangs or take to crime in an area, based on the analyses of their
behaviour and network. Those out on bail or parole are most likely to commit
crimes." It can also curb domestic violence by identifying a pattern and
predicting the next attack, the officer said.

It all boils down to spotting patterns in mountains of data using tremendous
computing power. "Investigators should be able to perform crime series
identification, crime trend identification, hot spot analysis and general
analysis of criminal profiles. Then there will be a crime link analysis which
will spot common indicators of a crime by establishing association (groups of
events that regularly occur together)" a police document about the plan states.

Using neighbourhood analysis, police will be able to understand crime events and
the circumstances behind them in a small area as all the crime activity in a
neighbourhood will be available for analysis. Criminal cases will be classified
into multiple categories to understand what types of crime an area is prone to
and the measures needed to curb them. Classification will be done through
profiles of victims, suspects, localities and the modus operandi.

Another technique, called proximity analysis, will provide information about
criminals, victims, witnesses and other people who are or were within a certain
distance of the crime scene. By analyzing demographic and social trends,
investigators will be able to understand the changes that have taken place in an
area and their impact on criminality.

Network analysis will also be a part of this project to identify the important
characteristics and functions of individuals within and outside a network, the
network's strengths and weaknesses and its financial and communication data.

While the system could help fight crime and rid Delhi of its 'crime capital'
tag, it is bound to raise concerns over privacy and abuse as no predictive
system can be foolproof.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 13 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 March 14, 2015
                                 First Edition

Software that stops crime before it even starts;
POLICE

BYLINE: Paul Gallagher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 277 words


Thursday 13 February 2014 was a unique day in the history of Los Angeles - a day
when no recorded crime occurred.

The city's officers made the claim with pride last year thanks to a software
package they say stops crime before it occurs. Now forces from England are
testing the same system as coalition cuts continue to reduce frontline police
numbers.

Where the 2002 film Minority Report had "PreCrime" specialised police
departments, the real world now has predictive policing, or "PredPol". Using the
most recent five years' data on crimes, including where and what time they
occurred, PredPol draws areas on a Google map each day, which allows forces to
predict where crime is more likely to take place - and patrol areas accordingly.

Kent Police became the first force in the UK to use the £100,000-a-year package
and Scotland Yard is evaluating the results of a 20-week trial of a very similar
system from Accenture using the same techniques. Once the information is fed
into the system, red boxes on computerised maps tell officers which areas they
should be concentrating on policing. Three years' anti-social behaviour data is
added to the five years' crime data and all fed into the software to create an
algorithm.

"I've come across algorithms before that claim to help police and they tended to
be not that robust, but this was very different," Mark Johnson, the head of
analysis at Kent Police, told i. "It was very simple in terms of the variables
looking at human behaviour and it was good to go because it was so easy to use."

Sevenoaks, in Kent, where the system is used much more than in any neighbouring
district, has seen an 18 per cent drop in crime.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
