
                               1 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Time magazine names Santa Cruz predictive policing program one of the year's top
inventions

BYLINE: Jessica M. Pasko, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words


Nov. 23--SANTA CRUZ -- The city police department's predictive policing program
has garnered yet another accolade.

The program is being named as one of the 50 best inventions of 2011 by none
other than Time magazine.

In the Nov. 28 issue, which is already in newsstands, the program was praised
for helping the department "get ahead of the bad guys." It joins the ranks of
such inventions as the iPad, the electric car and devices that help people walk
again, which have all been named among the top inventions in previous years.
Time releases its "50 Best New Inventions" issue annually. Other inventions
honored by Time this year are Apple's Siri, 3-D processors and holographic
mapping.

"We are honored to be recognized by Time magazine for our predictive policing
program," said Police Chief Kevin Vogel. "Innovation is the key to modern
policing and we're proud to be leveraging technology in a way that keeps our
community safer."

The program, which uses technology based on earthquake prediction technology,
has been praised by media outlets and law enforcement agencies around the nation
for its innovation, including features in The New York Times and on ABC World
News with Diane Sawyer, among others.

Being recognized by Time is a big honor, but what's more important is that since
the program was implemented, the department has seen a large reduction in
crimes, said Zach Friend, spokesman and crime analyst for the department.

"We're focused a lot less on the coverage and the accolades than we are on the
actual reduction," said Friend, who was instrumental in bringing the program to
Santa Cruz.

Friend first read about the predictive policing program being worked on by Santa
Clara University's Dr. George Mohler in the Los Angeles Times last year, and
decided to approach Mohler about implementing it in Santa Cruz. Mohler developed
the program with a team of UCLA researchers using an earthquake aftershock model
to determine where future crimes will occur, initially using data from the Los
Angeles Police Department. It's similar to the predictability of an aftershock
after an earthquake in that the model predicts that there will be so-called
"after crimes" following an initial crime.

Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and provided him with crime
data from 2002-2009, with a focus on property crimes. The department became the
first in the nation to use the predictive program, which it implemented in July,
and since then, they've already seen a decrease in the targeted crime types,
which includes burglaries and motor vehicle thefts.

In January, the police department will work with the researchers to do a full
analysis of the program after the first six months of implementation. Other
police departments are also looking into implementing the program, which LAPD
has started testing in one of its divisions.

Friend and Lt. Bernie Escalante visited LAPD earlier this week to speak to
members of the division, which is three times the size of the entire Santa Cruz
Police Department, about using the program and how its worked in Santa Cruz.

The program can also help ease the pain of departments dealing with shrinking
staffing due to budget cuts, a matter of increasing importance given the
nation's economic troubles.

"Technological programs like this can help equalize the gap there," said Friend.

___ (c)2011 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111123-QC-Time-magazine-names-Santa-Cruz-predictive-policing
-program-one-of-the-year-20111123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               2 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            January 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

the NEXT crime;
Minneapolis police are part of a national movement that is producing
revolutionary results in predicting criminal behavior.

BYLINE: MATT McKINNEY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1597 words


STAR TRIBUNE EXCLUSIVE

Ryan Hughes, a young, spiky-haired computer analyst for the Minneapolis Police
Department, pulls up a map of the Twin Cities on his screen.

"Here, here, here," he begins, pointing to six red dots. Each marks a robbery
probably committed by the same man.

"And here," Hughes continues, pointing to a dot just northeast of Minneapolis,
"is where I predicted he would go next."

Simple as a crime map, seemingly as far-fetched as ESP, such scenes are becoming
more common. Police departments from Minneapolis to Los Angeles are turning to
the emerging science of using recent crime data to predict where criminals will
strike next.

The potentially revolutionary step could fundamentally alter the nature of
police work.

The idea is that everyone, even criminals, are creatures of habit. With enough
information about past crimes, it's possible to forecast their future target.

"We usually look at the last week and say, 'This is what happened in the last
week,'" said Minneapolis Chief Tim Dolan. "Well we've added to that, saying,
'This is what we think's going to happen next week.'"

That kind of thinking has just begun in Minneapolis, but Dolan says it's already
paid off in north and southwest Minneapolis, areas that led the city last year
in reducing overall crime rates.

The strategy looks slightly different everywhere it's used, but predictive
policing relies mainly on a police department's ability to accumulate deep
databases of crime information that detail time, location, methods and numerous
other bits of revealing data. Crunched by a computer analyst, the numbers reveal
patterns.

That's the task facing a crew of five such crime analysts who work out of a
second floor office in City Hall. Every day, they pore over recent crime data,
slicing it different ways and sometimes using software to crunch it further. If
a pattern emerges, they mark it down for consideration on an internal crime map
that gets passed along to the chief for his weekly meeting with top inspectors
and lieutenants.

A handful of police departments around the country have spent tens of thousands
of dollars on more advanced software, or are working with university researchers
and technology companies on algorithms to help them spot crime trends. It's akin
to predicting where an earthquake's aftershocks will be felt, says a Santa Clara
University mathematician developing formulas for such police work.

As for Hughes' prediction of where the Minneapolis robber would strike next? It
was made using free software distributed by the National Institute of Justice.
The software examines the location and timing of each crime to draw its
conclusions. The estimate of the robber's next target turned out to be a mile
off. But in the world of crime prediction, that's still counted as a success --
the kind of information that could put a patrol car close to the action.

Hughes, who hopes the Minneapolis department will eventually use more
high-powered software for predictive policing, said that his maps have
accurately predicted the locations of 45 percent of the city's violent crime.

"I have a better batting average than Joe Mauer," Hughes said.

Stocking Pop-Tarts

To better understand predictive policing, consider the Pop-Tarts story.

Businesses such as Wal-Mart have long anticipated customers' needs based on
weather and time of year. Coastal stores knew that as hurricanes approached,
customers stocked up on bottled water and duct tape. Those things made sense,
but looking more closely at customer data and comparing it to weather patterns,
analysts at Wal-Mart noticed that customers anticipating a hurricane also bought
more strawberry Pop-Tarts.

It's the sort of anecdote that the emerging industry of predictive policing
embraces because it shows how analyzing data can turn up surprises, things that
can be used to predict future behavior.

The promise of doing the same thing with crime has prompted some large police
departments such as Los Angeles to invest in partnerships with university
researchers to devise predictive algorithms or formulas. As exotic as it sounds,
it's just the next step in the changing world of police work, said William
Bratton, the celebrated former chief of police in Los Angeles and New York City.

"It's really the continuation of the evolution of policing," Bratton said.

Starting in the 1990s, when police began using crime reports to identify hot
spots, the focus has been on putting police officers near high-crime areas.
Putting laptops in squad cars and publishing crime maps helped shorten response
time. Now, police departments can quickly analyze a lot of crime data to spot
crime trends as they're occurring.

"So after two or three incidents we can put a stop to it instead of waiting for
20 or 30," said Bratton, who now works as an independent security consultant.

"This is potentially labor-saving," he said. "That's very important because as
we're going into very tough times with public financing, it's going to become
more and more critical."

The hope is that predictive policing will help supplant random patrolling, which
studies have shown doesn't work well.

"It's not enough to send people out and expect that they will have an impact on
crime," said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research
Forum in Washington.

Narrowing the field

Minneapolis police estimate that half of the city's most serious crime takes
place on 6 percent of its land area. Many of the worst areas are under video
surveillance, as the city expands its use of closed circuit cameras. But even
within those high crime areas, there might be a few blocks that are particularly
rough on any given week, said Sgt. Jeff Egge, the head of the department's Crime
Analysis Unit.

His staff of five analysts make predictions by printing color-coded maps that
show blocks or small sectors where they expect crimes such as burglary, robbery
and aggravated assaults. The techniques are less effective for "episodic" crimes
such as homicide, which are more random.

The strategy adds a predictive element to the department's CODEFOR program,
begun in 1998 to map the city's crime hot spots.

"When we started CODEFOR, we looked at where crime occurred last week," said
Deputy Chief Rob Allen. "What we've asked people to do is to focus more on where
we anticipate crime is going to occur next week. We've made it sort of
future-oriented rather than assuming the same patterns will continue."

It's had its successes, police say.

Last October, two felons walked into the Dunn Brothers coffee shop in Uptown,
pistol-whipped one of the two clerks, tied them up in a back room and took a bag
of cash.

Witnesses called 911. Police arrived in time to catch the robbers. The two now
face federal charges due to their criminal histories.

Fifth Precinct Inspector Ed Frizell said it was no coincidence that officers
arrived so quickly. Fifth Precinct officers were looking out for storefront
robberies along Lake Street as part of the precinct's predictive analysis.

"The officers of the Fifth Precinct have absolutely made this thing work,"
Frizell said. "They have total buy-in."

Frizell said he knows the color-coded maps issued by the Crime Analysis Unit are
taken seriously by his patrol officers because he sees them taking notes off of
fresh maps hung in the precinct.

It's easier than handing an officer a stack of the latest intelligence, said Lt.
Jeff Rugel, who runs the Gang Enforcement Team out of the department's new
strategic information center. "A commander issuing orders can say, 'See where
it's red? Go be where it's red,'" Rugel said. "It makes it very easy to see
what's going on as opposed to charts and charts of data."

It can be tough to gauge the success of predictive policing because analysts
don't know whether added police presence at predicted hot spots deters the
predicted crime.

"You can't measure things that don't happen," said Capt. Amelia Huffman,
commander of the criminal investigations division.

If a prediction helps police catch someone doing a lot of crimes, the effect on
local crime rates can be remarkable. For example, said Huffman, if a prolific
burglar is captured, burglary dots on the weekly crime maps will "melt away."

Plain common sense?

Sometimes, predictive policing looks a lot more like common sense than science
fiction, said Egge, who gave the example of how his unit analyzed years of data
on burglaries that occurred each year during the week the University of
Minnesota started classes.

Laptops, GPS units, iPods and other expensive items are often left in cars or
hallways as students unpack, and many are stolen.

This past fall, crime analysts Hughes and Susan McPhee came up with maps of the
Dinkytown area that highlighted the spots that historically have the most crime
during opening week. Then crime prevention specialists warned students in that
area to use caution while officers kept an eye on the worst spots. Crimes were
down sharply, police said.

Last month, Chief Dolan spoke at the grand opening of a police intelligence
center where a few officers can monitor hundreds of live video feeds from across
the city on three movie screens. They just have to know where to look.

Dolan said predictive policing has just begun in Minneapolis and will grow as
the department becomes more accustomed to it. In the end, he said, it's just one
more tool to put police where they should be.

"The most efficient thing we can do is prevent a crime," Dolan said. "Solving a
crime is all good once a crime's occurred. It is much more efficient to be
trying to prevent crime for a community."

Matt McKinney - 612-217-1747

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

In the U.S., a new computer program aims to fight crime by predicting it

BYLINE: BY ERICA GOODE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1036 words

ABSTRACT

The police in Santa Cruz, California, are giving predictive policing --
deploying officers in places where crimes have been projected as likely to occur
in the future -- a test run.

FULL TEXT

The arrests were routine. Two women were taken into custody after they were
discovered peering into cars in a downtown parking garage in Santa Cruz,
California. One woman was found to have outstanding warrants; the other was
carrying illegal drugs.

But the presence of the police officers in the garage that Friday afternoon in
July was anything but ordinary: They had been directed to it by a computer
program that had predicted that car burglaries were especially likely there that
day.

The program is part of an unusual experiment by the Santa Cruz Police Department
in predictive policing - deploying officers in places where the computer
projects crimes are likely to occur in the future.

In July, Santa Cruz began testing the prediction method for property crimes like
car and home burglaries and car thefts. So far, said Zach Friend, the Police
Department's crime analyst, the program has helped officers pre-empt several
crimes and has led to five arrests.

The notion of predictive policing is attracting increasing attention from law
enforcement agencies around the United States as departments struggle to fight
crime at a time when budgets are being slashed.

''We're facing a situation where we have 30 percent more calls for service but
20 percent less staff than in the year 2000, and that is going to continue to be
our reality,'' Mr. Friend said. ''So we have to deploy our resources in a more
effective way, and we thought this model would help.''

Efforts to systematically anticipate when and where crimes will occur are being
tried out in several cities. The Chicago Police Department, for example, created
a predictive analytics unit last year.

But Santa Cruz's method is more sophisticated than most. Based on models for
predicting aftershocks from earthquakes, it generates projections about which
areas and windows of time are at highest risk for future crimes by analyzing and
detecting patterns in years of past crime data. The projections are recalibrated
daily, as new crimes occur and updated data is fed into the program.

On the day the women were arrested, for example, the program identified the
approximately one-square-block area where the parking garage was as one of the
highest-risk locations for car burglaries.

In contrast, CompStat and other crime-tracking systems in use in many cities are
calibrated less frequently, rely more on humans to recognize patterns, and
allocate resources based on past crimes rather than predicted future offenses.

The program used in Santa Cruz was developed by a group of researchers -
including two mathematicians, George Mohler and Martin Short; an anthropologist,
P. Jeffrey Brantingham; and a criminologist, George E. Tita - in a project that
used data provided by the Los Angeles Police Department, which is hoping to
begin using the program later this year.

''We're watching closely what is going on in Santa Cruz,'' said Capt. Sean
Malinowski of the Los Angeles department's Foothill patrol division, who worked
with the researchers when he was head of the department's crime center under the
police chief at the time, William J. Bratton.

Captain Malinowski envisions a time when the police would issue crime forecasts
the same way the National Weather Service issues storm alerts.

''It would certainly be safer for everyone and more effective,'' he said,
postulating, ''You're having a rash of shootings, and the computer says it's
going to continue in these places and on these days of the week.''

He added, ''Now, if we have a problem, we throw a lot of cops at it, and
unfortunately, with the economy being the way it is, we don't have as many cops
available.''

The CompStat system, Captain Malinowski said, was a big advance for policing,
but the use of computer programs takes prediction to the next level.

With CompStat and other, similar approaches, ''we look at these maps, and
they're as accurate as we can get them,'' he said. ''But I'm looking at a map
from last week, and the whole assumption is that next week is like last week.
The computer eliminates the bias that people have.''

For the Santa Cruz trial, eight years of crime data were fed into the computer
program, which breaks Santa Cruz into squares of approximately 500 feet by 500
feet, or 150 meters by 150 meters. New data are added each day.

Officers are given a list of the 10 highest-probability ''hot spots'' of the day
at roll call. They check those areas during times that they are not out on
service calls. Before the program started, they made such ''pass through''
checks based on hunches or experience of where crimes were likely to occur.

Mr. Friend said that the reaction to the prediction method among officers had
been ''quite positive.''

''The feedback I've received is that there is appreciation that it has validated
intuition or provided a new focus area that wasn't known,'' he said.

How accurate the program really is has yet to be demonstrated; its success will
be evaluated after six months.

''The worst-case scenario is that it doesn't work, and we're no worse off,''
said Mr. Friend, who had enlisted Mr. Mohler, a professor at Santa Clara
University.

Mr. Friend said the early indications were encouraging. Burglaries were down 27
percent in July compared with July 2010, suggesting that the carefully directed
policing may have a deterrent effect, he said.

In Los Angeles, Captain Malinowski said, the Police Department hopes to expand
the program to include some violent crimes, like gang shootings.

Predicting crime with computer programs is in some ways a natural outgrowth of
the technology that companies like Wal-Mart now use routinely to predict the
buying habits of customers, said Scott Dickson, a crime analyst for the Police
Department in Killeen, Texas, who discussed the Santa Cruz experiment on his
blog.

Law enforcement agencies, Mr. Dickson noted, have ''great warehouses of data''
that can be used to feed predictive programs. And in the end, he said, ''it's
cheaper to prevent a crime than to solve a crime, and that's where I think the
promise lies.''

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Time Magazine names Santa Cruz police program to predict crime one of the year's
top inventions

BYLINE: By Jessica M. Pasko jpasko@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 552 words


SANTA CRUZ -- The city police department's program to predict crime trends has
garnered yet another accolade.

The program is being named as one of the 50 best inventions of 2011 by Time
magazine.

In the Nov. 28 issue, which is already on newsstands, the program was praised
for helping the department "get ahead of the bad guys."

It joins the ranks of such inventions as the iPad, the electric car and devices
that help people walk again, which have all been named among the top inventions
in previous years. Time releases its "50 Best New Inventions" issue annually.
Other inventions honored by Time this year are Apple's Siri, 3-D processors and
holographic mapping.

"We are honored to be recognized by Time magazine for our predictive policing
program," said police Chief Kevin Vogel. "Innovation is the key to modern
policing, and we're proud to be leveraging technology in a way that keeps our
community safer."

The program, which uses technology based on earthquake prediction technology,
has been praised by media outlets and law enforcement agencies around the nation
for its innovation, including features in the New York Times and on ABC "World
News" with Diane Sawyer, among others.

Being recognized by Time is a big honor, but what's more important is that since
the program was implemented, the department has seen a large reduction in
crimes, said Zach Friend, spokesman and crime analyst for the department.

"We're focused a lot less on the coverage and the accolades than we are on the
actual reduction," said Friend, who was instrumental in bringing the program to
Santa Cruz.

Friend first read about the predictive policing program being worked on by Santa
Clara University's George Mohler in the Los Angeles Times last year and decided
to approach Mohler about implementing it in Santa Cruz.

Mohler developed the program with a team of UCLA researchers using an earthquake
aftershock model to determine where future crimes will occur, initially using
data from the Los Angeles Police Department. It's similar to the predictability
of an aftershock after an earthquake in that the model predicts that there will
be so-called "after crimes" following an initial crime.

Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and provided him with crime
data from 2002-2009, with a focus on property crimes. The department became the
first in the nation to use the predictive program, which it implemented in July,
and since then, it has already resulted in a decrease in the targeted crime
types, which includes burglaries and motor vehicle thefts.

In January, the police department will work with the researchers to do a full
analysis of the program after the first six months of implementation. Other
police departments are also looking into implementing the program, which LAPD
has started testing in one of its divisions.

Friend and Lt. Bernie Escalante visited LAPD earlier this week to speak to
members of the division, which is three times the size of the entire Santa Cruz
Police Department, about using the program and how its worked in Santa Cruz.

The program can also help ease the pain of departments dealing with shrinking
staffing due to budget cuts, a matter of increasing importance given the
nation's economic troubles.

"Technological programs like this can help equalize the gap there," said Friend.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 29, 2011 Thursday

Burglaries drop in first five months of predictive policing in Santa Cruz

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Dec. 29--SANTA CRUZ -- Reported burglaries to homes, businesses and vehicles
fell in the first five months of Santa Cruz police's predictive policing
program, police said Wednesday.

Predictive policing uses historical data on the time and location of burglaries
and thefts and runs it through an algorithm to predict future crime. Officers
are asked to patrol in those areas to deter crime.

There has been a national movement among police agencies to implement predictive
policing, and Santa Cruz police on July 1 were the first to use it.

From July 1 to Nov. 30, there was an 11 percent drop in reported burglaries in
the city compared with the same period in 2010, said Zach Friend, Santa Cruz
police crime analyst.

Compared with the first half of 2011 -- Jan. 1, 2011 to June 30, 2011 -- there
was a 20 percent decrease in burglaries to homes, business and vehicles, Friend
said.

The drop could be correlated to the new program and not necessarily caused by
it, but Friend said the change was positive.

There is an average of 300 burglaries to homes, businesses and vehicles annually
in Santa Cruz, Friend said.

"I'd have to say that was a success," Friend said of the program's preliminary
results.

In late January, Santa Cruz police plan to release a full report of the
program's first six months after the data is analyzed by professors from Santa
Clara University and the UCLA. George Mohler, an assistant professor of math and
computer

science, has worked on the project with anthropologist Jeff Brantingham of UCLA.

If the results are positive, Friend said it could grow to include data for
bicycle thefts and gang-motivated violent crime to try to deter them.

During the department's roll call at the start of each shift, officers are given
a sheet of paper that lists street blocks and times with the highest probability
of burglaries and auto thefts -- based on historical data and the algorithm.

If the officer has a few minutes between calls for service, he or she can patrol
that area, Friend said.

Friend said the targeted patrols since July have netted about 12 arrests, but
the emphasis is on crime prevention.

"The intent has not been to arrest our way out of problem, it's to deter crime,"
Friend said.

"If the criminal is familiar with policing patterns and you're breaking that
pattern through targeted patrol, then they're less likely to commit a burglary,"
Friend said.

He added that officers' feedback on the new system would help guide the
potential changes to it in 2012.

In addition to burglaries, police started in July to implement predictive
policing methods for auto thefts.

So far, police said the change in reported auto thefts have been statistically
insignificant.

___ (c)2011 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111229-QC-Burglaries-drop-in-first-five-months-of-predictive-policing
-in-Santa-Cruz-1229-20111229

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               6 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sending the Police Before There's a Crime

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 991 words


The arrests were routine. Two women were taken into custody after they were
discovered peering into cars in a downtown parking garage in Santa Cruz, Calif.
One woman was found to have outstanding warrants; the other was carrying illegal
drugs.

But the presence of the police officers in the garage that Friday afternoon in
July was anything but ordinary: They were directed to the parking structure by a
computer program that had predicted that car burglaries were especially likely
there that day.

The program is part of an unusual experiment by the Santa Cruz Police Department
in predictive policing -- deploying officers in places where crimes are likely
to occur in the future.

In July, Santa Cruz began testing the prediction method for property crimes like
car and home burglaries and car thefts. So far, said Zach Friend, the police
department's crime analyst, the program has helped officers pre-empt several
crimes and has led to five arrests.

The notion of predictive policing is attracting increasing attention from law
enforcement agencies around the country as departments struggle to fight crime
at a time when budgets are being slashed.

''We're facing a situation where we have 30 percent more calls for service but
20 percent less staff than in the year 2000, and that is going to continue to be
our reality,'' Mr. Friend said. ''So we have to deploy our resources in a more
effective way, and we thought this model would help.''

Efforts to systematically anticipate when and where crimes will occur are being
tried out in several cities. The Chicago Police Department, for example, created
a predictive analytics unit last year.

But Santa Cruz's method is more sophisticated than most. Based on models for
predicting aftershocks from earthquakes, it generates projections about which
areas and windows of time are at highest risk for future crimes by analyzing and
detecting patterns in years of past crime data. The projections are recalibrated
daily, as new crimes occur and updated data is fed into the program.

On the day the women were arrested, for example, the program identified the
approximately one-square-block area where the parking garage is situated as one
of the highest-risk locations for car burglaries.

In contrast, CompStat and other crime-tracking systems in use in many cities are
calibrated less frequently, rely more on humans to recognize patterns, and
allocate resources based on past crimes rather than predicted future offenses.

The program was developed by a group of researchers -- including two
mathematicians, George Mohler and Martin Short; an anthropologist, Jeff
Brantingham; and a criminologist, George Tita -- in a project that used data
provided by the Los Angeles Police Department, which is hoping to begin using
the program later this year.

''We're watching closely what is going on in Santa Cruz,'' said Capt. Sean
Malinowski of the Los Angeles department's Foothill Patrol Division, who worked
with the researchers when he was head of the department's crime center under the
police chief at the time, William J. Bratton.

Captain Malinowski envisions a time when the police will issue crime forecasts
the same way the Weather Service issues storm alerts.

''It would certainly be safer for everyone and more effective,'' he said, adding
that the forecast might say, ''You're having a rash of shootings and the
computer says it's going to continue in these places and on these days of the
week.''

He added, ''Now, if we have a problem, we throw a lot of cops at it, and
unfortunately, with the economy being the way it is, we don't have as many cops
available.''

The CompStat system, Captain Malinowski said, was a big advance for policing,
but the use of computer programs takes prediction to the next level.

With CompStat and other, similar approaches, ''we look at these maps and they're
as accurate as we can get them,'' he said. ''But I'm looking at a map from last
week and the whole assumption is that next week is like last week. The computer
eliminates the bias that people have.''

For the Santa Cruz trial, eight years of crime data were fed into the computer
program, which breaks Santa Cruz into squares of approximately 500 feet by 500
feet. New data is added each day.

Officers are given a list of the 10 highest-probability ''hot spots'' of the day
at roll call. They check those areas during times that they are not out on
service calls. Before the program started, they made such ''pass through''
checks based on hunches or experience of where crimes were likely to occur.

Mr. Friend said that the reaction to the prediction method among officers had
been ''quite positive.''

''The feedback I've received is that there is appreciation that it has validated
intuition or provided a new focus area that wasn't known,'' he said.

How accurate the program really is has yet to be demonstrated; its success will
be evaluated after six months.

''The worst-case scenario is that it doesn't work and we're no worse off,'' said
Mr. Friend, who enlisted Dr. Mohler, a professor at Santa Clara University.

Mr. Friend said the early indications were encouraging. Burglaries were down 27
percent in July compared with July 2010, suggesting that the targeted policing
may have a deterrent effect, he said.

In Los Angeles, Captain Malinowski said, the police department hopes to expand
the program to include some violent crimes, like gang shootings.

Predicting crime with computer programs is in some ways a natural outgrowth of
the technology that companies like Wal-Mart now use routinely to predict the
buying habits of customers, said Scott Dickson, a crime analyst for the police
department in Killeen, Tex., who discussed the Santa Cruz experiment on his
blog.

Law enforcement agencies, Mr. Dickson noted, have ''great warehouses of data''
that can be used to feed predictive programs. And in the end, he said, ''it's
cheaper to prevent a crime than to solve a crime, and that's where I think the
promise lies.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officers at a location flagged by a computer program as a place
where car burglaries were likely. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Santa Cruz police first in nation to try Santa Clara University model to predict
crime

BYLINE: By Stephen Baxter sbaxter@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local

LENGTH: 565 words


SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the nation to use
a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but rather to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 - as well as the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the soonest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Santa Cruz police first in nation to try Santa Clara University model to predict
crime

BYLINE: By Stephen Baxter sbaxter@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; Peninsula; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 565 words


SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the nation to use
a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but rather to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 - as well as the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the soonest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sgt. David Perry leads the Thursday afternoon swing shift roll call at
the Santa Cruz police department.
Santa Cruz police officers at roll call for Thursday's swing shift.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday

Crime predictions to guide Santa Cruz police

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


Jan. 15--SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the
nation to use a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 -- along with the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the earliest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

To see more of The Santa Cruz Sentinel or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Santa Cruz Sentinel,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110115-QC-Crime-predictions-to-guide-Santa-Cruz-police-0115-20110115

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               10 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday

Crime predictions to guide Santa Cruz police; Agency says it will be first in
nation to try Santa Clara University model

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words


Jan. 15--SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the
nation to use a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but rather to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 -- as well as the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the soonest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

To see more of The Santa Cruz Sentinel or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Santa Cruz Sentinel,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110115-QC-Crime-predictions-to-guide-Santa-Cruz-police-Agency-says-it-will-be-
first-in-nation-to-try-Santa-Clara-University-model-0115-20110115

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               11 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Cassidy: Santa Clara University math scholar fights crime with mad math skills

BYLINE: By Mike Cassidy Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 789 words


George Mohler is a crime-fighting, math professor superhero -- not that he'd
ever call himself that.

First he'll point out it's "assistant professor," first year at Santa Clara
University. Next, he'll go into some detail about how his computer program that
uses past crime data to predict when and where future crimes will be attempted
is not exactly mathematics.

"I don't know that I'd call it math," Mohler, a slim guy who dresses geek chic,
says over coffee. "In some ways it's applied statistics, really. Spatial
statistics."

Known to the rest of us as math.

Which is not to say he isn't delighted by the attention his work with
crime-curbing algorithms has been attracting (newspaper stories, academic
papers, conference talks). After all, it isn't every day that algorithms stir up
much of a fuss, unless you're Google ( GOOG ).

"To be honest I never really imagined that this is where I'd end up," says
Mohler, 29, meaning not the Peet's near campus, but as the it guy in the
emerging crime-fighting field known as predictive policing.

"I think it's brilliant," says Zach Friend, the Santa Cruz Police Department's
crime analyst. Santa Cruz is the first department to deploy Mohler's program.
Los Angeles is planning to incorporate the system into its crime prevention
efforts, and both Mohler and Friend say they've heard from other departments
that are interested.

Santa Cruz has been using Mohler's program only long enough to know it's very
promising. In the first few weeks, officers have seen a high correlation between
when and where the program says a certain type of property crime -- burglary,
car break-ins or auto theft -- will occur and reports of that crime being tried
or committed, Friend says. It will be months, he adds, before crime-fighters in
Surf City will be able to determine its overall effectiveness.

But more important for now is what Mohler's work has to say to every school kid
struggling with math and wondering what possible use there could ever be for all
this number crunching.

In a valley of curious minds, Mohler shows just where those minds can lead us.
This all started for him at UC Santa Barbara when he was tinkering with computer
programs that might help those working with plastics and other materials create
better products. It was a heady mix of polynomials and polymers. (A little math
humor there.) Then onto UCLA, his stop before Santa Clara, where he joined a
team studying crime patterns in Los Angeles.

Mohler started noodling around with notions of how to spot patterns in seemingly
random events. You know, like earthquakes. And bingo. What happens when a
sizable earthquake hits an area? Aftershocks.

And it turns out that when one house on a street is burglarized, it's not
unusual for nearby houses -- or even the same house -- to be hit later. It seems
burglars, like most of us, hate long commutes. They prefer to strike near home,
which is one reason for follow-on crime in a given neighborhood, Mohler says.

"You can see it,'' he says of the crime data he's crunched, "especially property
crimes."

Mohler began searching for studies covering earthquake prediction models, which
have been around for years. "Google is an invaluable tool." (Love those
algorithms.) He read and pondered and sought help from fellow academics. He
determined that the principles behind earthquake prediction could be tweaked and
applied to crime.

Mohler's model (see http://math.scu.edu/~gmohler/crime_science2.pdf),  which
relies on years of crime data, now provides Santa Cruz with a dynamic tool that
constantly changes as crimes are committed in different parts of the city.
Officers review the predictions regularly. They make it a point to pass through
trouble spots when they are not busy with other calls.

Mohler's timing couldn't have been better. As he was toiling away, many police
departments statewide were slashing budgets, trimming the number of officers and
looking for ways to keep everyone safe with fewer cops. Mohler, whose research
is supported by federal grants, is not charging departments for his work.

"We are faced with a reality that we will not see more officers coming into our
agency, or agencies throughout the state, anytime soon," says Friend, who last
year read mention of Mohler's project in the Los Angeles Times and shot him an
email. "We need resources, but if that's not a reality we have to start
leveraging technology in a way that makes us more efficient."

Which means that Mohler's work might be only the beginning for crime-fighting
math professor superheroes everywhere.

Contact Mike Cassidy at mcassidy@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5536. Follow him at
Twitter.com/mikecassidy.more on crime-fighting mathematics
Go to http://math.scu.edu/ ~gmohler/crime_science2.pdf

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Cassidy: Santa Clara University math scholar fights crime with mad math skills

BYLINE: By Mike Cassidy Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local; Columnists; Business; Columnists

LENGTH: 774 words


George Mohler is a crime-fighting, math professor superhero -- not that he'd
ever call himself that.

First he'll point out it's "assistant professor," first year at Santa Clara
University. Next, he'll go into some detail about how his computer program that
uses past crime data to predict when and where future crimes will be attempted
is not exactly mathematics.

"I don't know that I'd call it math," Mohler, a slim guy who dresses geek chic,
says over coffee. "In some ways it's applied statistics, really. Spatial
statistics."

Known to the rest of us as math.

Which is not to say he isn't delighted by the attention his work with
crime-curbing algorithms has been attracting (newspaper stories, academic
papers, conference talks). After all, it isn't every day that algorithms stir up
much of a fuss, unless you're Google ( GOOG ).

"To be honest I never really imagined that this is where I'd end up," says
Mohler, 29, meaning not the Peet's near campus, but as the it guy in the
emerging crime-fighting field known as predictive policing.

"I think it's brilliant," says Zach Friend, the Santa Cruz Police Department's
crime analyst. Santa Cruz is the first department to deploy Mohler's program.
Los Angeles is planning to incorporate the system into its crime prevention
efforts, and both Mohler and Friend say they've heard from other departments
that are interested.

Santa Cruz has been using Mohler's program only long enough to know it's very
promising. In the first few weeks, officers have seen a high correlation between
when and where the program says a certain type of property crime -- burglary,
car break-ins or auto theft -- will occur and reports of that crime being tried
or committed, Friend says. It will be months, he adds, before crime-fighters in
Surf City will be able to determine its overall effectiveness.

But more important for now is what Mohler's work has to say to every school kid
struggling with math and wondering what possible use there could ever be for all
this number crunching.

In a valley of curious minds, Mohler shows just where those minds can lead us.
This all started for him at UC Santa Barbara when he was tinkering with computer
programs that might help those working with plastics and other materials create
better products. It was a heady mix of polynomials and polymers. (A little math
humor there.) Then onto UCLA, his stop before Santa Clara, where he joined a
team studying crime patterns in Los Angeles.

Mohler started noodling around with notions of how to spot patterns in seemingly
random events. You know, like earthquakes. And bingo. What happens when a
sizable earthquake hits an area? Aftershocks.

And it turns out that when one house on a street is burglarized, it's not
unusual for nearby houses -- or even the same house -- to be hit later. It seems
burglars, like most of us, hate long commutes. They prefer to strike near home,
which is one reason for follow-on crime in a given neighborhood, Mohler says.

"You can see it,'' he says of the crime data he's crunched, "especially property
crimes."

Mohler began searching for studies covering earthquake prediction models, which
have been around for years. "Google is an invaluable tool." (Love those
algorithms.) He read and pondered and sought help from fellow academics. He
determined that the principles behind earthquake prediction could be tweaked and
applied to crime.

Mohler's model, which relies on years of crime data, now provides Santa Cruz
with a dynamic tool that constantly changes as crimes are committed in different
parts of the city. Officers review the predictions regularly. They make it a
point to pass through trouble spots when they are not busy with other calls.

Mohler's timing couldn't have been better. As he was toiling away, many police
departments statewide were slashing budgets, trimming the number of officers and
looking for ways to keep everyone safe with fewer cops. Mohler, whose research
is supported by federal grants, is not charging departments for his work.

"We are faced with a reality that we will not see more officers coming into our
agency, or agencies throughout the state, anytime soon," says Friend, who last
year read mention of Mohler's project in the Los Angeles Times and shot him an
email. "We need resources, but if that's not a reality we have to start
leveraging technology in a way that makes us more efficient."

Which means that Mohler's work might be only the beginning for crime-fighting
math professor superheroes everywhere.

Contact Mike Cassidy at mcassidy@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5536. Follow him at
Twitter.com/mikecassidy.

Go to http://math.scu.edu/ ~gmohler/crime_science2.pdf

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             August 7, 2011 Sunday

Newcombe to head R.C. sheriff's station

BYLINE: Wendy Leung, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


RANCHO CUCAMONGA - There's a new sheriff's captain in town.

Lt. Mike Newcombe, who came to the Rancho Cucamonga station in April, has been
promoted to captain and will act as the city's police chief.

The move follows the promotion of Capt. Joe Cusimano, who has led the San
Bernardino County sheriff's substation since 2007.

Cusimano, 47, a Rancho Cucamonga resident, will move to the deputy chief
position at the San Bernardino headquarters and lead the desert patrol bureau.

Cusimano and Newcombe's promotions are effective Aug.13.

"I'm honored to be picked," said Newcombe, 47. "I know there will be all kinds
of difficult challenges, and I welcome the challenges."

Newcombe said he will take over a station already made successful by his
predecessor.

"I'm not sent here to fix anything," he said. "I'm going to take what Joe has
done and refine it."

Newcombe, who lives in Highland with his wife and two daughters, came from a
family of firefighters. His grandfather was a chief of the Crest Forest Fire
District, and his uncle was a fire chief in San Bernardino.

A Lake Arrowhead native, Newcombe graduated from California Baptist University
with a bachelor's degree in business administration.

During Newcombe's 22 years with the Sheriff's Department, he served as
operations lieutenant in the Fontana and Yucaipa stations. In the early 1990s,
he spent several years doing patrol in Rancho Cucamonga.

In April, Newcombe joined the Rancho Cucamonga station as an administrative
lieutenant.

Mayor Dennis Michael said he feels comfortable knowing that Newcombe is already
familiar with this community.

As a contract city, Rancho Cucamonga regularly sees transitions in the sheriff's
captain post. Sheriff Rod Hoops once served as the Rancho Cucamonga captain.

It is the nature of partnering with the Sheriff's Department, Michael said.

"I rather have outstanding individuals promoted than to have people of lesser
quality staying here for longer periods of time," Michael said.

Next week, when Cusimano starts his new post as deputy chief in charge of the
desert region, he'll be back in familiar territory. Cusimano grew up in Apple
Valley and was stationed in Hesperia prior to coming to Rancho Cucamonga in
2007.

Cusimano leaves a station with 174 employees, 13 less than when he started.
Budgetary constraints have added new responsibilities to the captain's position.

The outgoing captain said Newcombe's biggest challenge will be to "police
leaner."

Michael said Cusimano has done an excellent job reallocating positions and
cutting overtime.

"We've not suffered any degradation and level of service," Michael said. "He's
an outstanding budgetary manager. He's a quick thinker, and he gets a lot of
things done."

During Cusimano's tenure, he helped create the social host ordinance,
established an alcohol compliance team and expanded the retail theft unit. Most
recently, Cusimano led a crime unit to analyze patterns and use predictive
policing to curb a string of residential burglaries originating from Los Angeles
-based gangs.

Cusimano is one of two city leaders leaving this month. City Manager Jack Lam is
retiring Aug. 31 after leading City Hall for 22 years.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
