
                                1 of 3 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2010 The University of Chicago
                               Crime and Justice

                                      2010

                               Crime and Justice

                              39 Crime & Just. 55

LENGTH: 38669 words

ARTICLE: Police Organization Continuity and Change: Into the Twenty-first
Century

NAME: Stephen D. Mastrofski and James J. Willis

BIO:  Stephen D. Mastrofski is university professor and director of the Center
for Justice Leadership and Management, and James J. Willis is assistant
professor, both in the Department of Criminology, Law and Society at George
Mason University. They are grateful to Roger B. Parks, who made many useful
comments on an earlier draft.

HIGHLIGHT: ABSTRACT


     American policing demonstrates both continuity and change. A high
     degree of decentralization persists, as do bureaucratic structures of
     larger police agencies. The structures and practices of the nation's
     numerous small agencies remain underexamined. The potential growth of
     professional structures inside and outside the police organization is
     largely unexplored. The core police patrol technology has remained
     essentially unchanged for decades, and early police adaptations to
     information technology have not yet profoundly altered policing
     structures and processes in easily observable ways. The demography and
     education levels of police workers are changing, but the consequences
     are not obvious. Police culture has long been under siege. Current
     reforms attempt to reduce the occupation's isolation from the
     communities it serves and the scientific community that presumably
     serves it. Mechanisms and styles for governing police retain
     considerable variation, but the growing role of grassroots community
     groups and police professional associations remains underexplored. The
     complexity of the dynamics of change manifests itself in the reaction
     of American police organizations to two consequential reform
     movements: community policing and terrorist-oriented policing.
     American police agencies have shown a remarkable capacity to absorb
     these reforms while buffering core structures and practices from
     change.


 TEXT:
 [*55]  Police organizations change. Whether we find that remarkable depends
[*56]  on how much and how quickly we expect them to change. In his insightful
essay nearly two decades ago, Albert Reiss (1992) tracked the major features of
American police organization continuity and change in the twentieth century,
indicating that some aspects of policing had changed little whereas others had
changed considerably. He noted that the public police industry in America had
resisted pressures to consolidate, remaining a highly decentralized system
embedded in the many thousands of local governments across the nation. However,
he noted that how police organizations are commanded, how their patrol officers
are mobilized, how patrol work is carried out, and how information is accessed
and used changed considerably during the twentieth century. American police
departments became more bureaucratized, but this process was far from total,
still leaving considerable discretion to the rank and file and only partially
effective accountability systems still vulnerable to corruption. He observed
that as a result of changes in demography, political governance, and technology,
the twentieth century witnessed the transformation of the police from the
minions of local political patrons to greater independence as they became
attached to legalistic and technocratic sources of power and legitimacy. He
noted the as-yet unresolved tension between the structures and cultures of
bureaucracy versus those of nascent professionalism, some of which were playing
out in the emergence of community and problem-oriented policing. These reforms
were designed to counter some of the pathologies of the growing strength of a
bureaucratic system of internal organization that by the restive 1970s was
experiencing a crisis in legitimacy in urban America, due in part to its
perceived isolation from, and unresponsiveness to, neighborhood and community
concerns.

   A decade into the twenty-first century is an appropriate time to reflect on
what has become of American police organizations--their structure, technologies,
and culture and the forces that shape them. Although this essay focuses on
America's local police organizations, we take occasion to compare America to
other nations to more fully appreciate the implications of the American context
for the patterns observed. Throughout the essay we note opportunities for future
research. Our arguments and conclusions are briefly summarized below.

   American policing demonstrates both continuity and change as it completes the
first decade of the twenty-first century. A high degree of industry
decentralization persists, despite periodic calls to consolidate  [*57]  service
delivery. A growing private security sector adds to the multiplicity of service
providers. Although there are ways in which the nation's system is less
fragmented than a mere count of policing providers indicates, the endurance of
this system may be attributable to both its technical performance and the ease
with which a more fragmented system provides responsiveness to local
preferences.

   Bureaucratic structures of larger police agencies also persist, despite
recent reform movements launched to de-bureaucratize them. The impact of
structural variation on organizational innovation and success is not well
established empirically, and the structures and practices of the nation's
numerous small agencies remain underexamined. The potential strengthening of
professional structures inside and outside the police organization is largely
unexplored.

   The core police patrol technology has remained essentially unchanged for
decades, and early police adaptations to the information technology revolution
have not yet profoundly altered policing structures and processes in easily
observable ways. Yet the increasing centrality of police as "information
workers" bears close watching. New information technologies have the potential
to transform how police relate to their task environment and how they regulate
themselves internally. While much past research indicates that technological
innovations frequently fail to produce the expected benefits, a long-term
approach may be required to perceive the impact on structures and practices.

   The demography and education levels of police workers are changing, with
racial minorities and females constituting increasing proportions of the
nation's sworn force. However, the consequences are not yet obvious and will
require a careful assessment of the processes by which changes in culture and
practice are expected to occur.

   Police culture is a term used to distinguish policing as an occupation, to
distinguish police organizations, and to distinguish individual police officers.
The extent to which these constructs actually account for police practices is
not well established empirically. Nonetheless, police culture has been under
siege since the 1960s. Currently popular reforms attempt to reduce the
occupation's isolation from the communities police serve and the scientific
community that presumably serves them, but it is not at all clear how successful
these reforms will be.

   Mechanisms and styles for governing police retain considerable variation, but
the research literature on how governance is accomplished  [*58]  is thin,
relying mostly on national surveys of agencies with data of limited theoretical
utility or in-depth case studies. The growing role of grassroots community
groups and police professional associations remains underexplored.

   The complexity of the dynamics of change manifests itself in the reaction of
American police organizations to the two most consequential reform movements of
the twenty-first century thus far: community policing and terrorist-oriented
policing. American police agencies have shown a remarkable capacity to absorb
these reforms while buffering core structures and practices from change.
However, profound changes may take more time than a couple of decades, so
observers should take care to attend to incremental change over longer time
periods.

   The essay is organized as follows: Section I, the structure of the American
policing industry; Section II, the internal structure of American police
agencies; Section III, police technology; Section IV, the people serving in
police organizations; Section V, organizational culture of police; Section VI,
external governance of police; Section VII, forces of stability and change for
American policing; and Section VIII, conclusion.

   I. The Structure of America's Policing Industry

To understand police organizations, there is value in first considering how they
are structured as a public service "industry" (Ostrom, Tiebout, and Warren 1961;
Ostrom and Ostrom 1965). In that respect, "American policing is local policing"
(Manning 2006, p. 99). Among police scholars America is regarded as the most
fragmented and complex system for delivering public policing services in the
industrialized world (Bayley 1985, 1992; Klinger 2004; Skogan and Frydl 2004, p.
48). A National Research Council panel of American policing scholars suggested
that at the end of the twentieth century there were approximately 19,000-21,000
federal, state, and local police agencies, of which the Bureau of Justice
Statistics estimated 13,500 were attached to local governments. A few years
later, a 2004 census showed 12,766 local police agencies, 3,067 sheriff's
departments, and 1,481 special jurisdiction agencies (Bureau of Justice
Statistics 2007, p. 2). No other nation matches the United States in the number
of agencies embedded in different levels of government and the complexity of
interagency arrangements, such as mutual aid agreements and interjurisdictional
task  [*59]  forces (Bayley 1992; Mawby 1999; Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 48).
This degree of fragmentation, or multiplicity, may be the most distinguishing
feature of America's policing system and also the most consequential.

A. Character of Industry Fragmentation

   Several things are worth noting about American policing fragmentation. First,
it appears to be associated with a fondness for decentralized democratic
governance (Geller and Morris 1992, p. 233). Some attribute this to the absence
of sustained violent threats to a national government, which in the presence of
such threats would find a need to form and retain a national police service
(Bayley 1992, p. 534). It is unclear whether the democratic predilections of
Americans fostered a fragmented structure of policing or whether the latter made
the former possible. Regardless of the direction of causality, this association
is not unique to the United States but is noted in other English-speaking
democracies.

   Second, the degree of fragmentation may be declining, albeit at a glacial
pace. Reliable national counts of local police agencies over long time periods
are not available (Maguire et al. 1998), but a detailed study of Ohio
departments from the 1970s through the 1990s shows a net loss of 100 agencies,
an 11 percent reduction (Maguire and King 2007, p. 340). The research also found
a net increase in the number of agencies in Arizona and Nevada, two states with
the highest population growth in the 1990s. There is uncertainty about this
trend at the national level, but if defragmentation were to continue at the
above rate for the first half of the twenty-first century, the number of Ohio
agencies would decline from 801 to 654, which would still leave many more police
agencies than most nations currently have. The safe bet is that the high level
of police industry organizational multiplicity in the United States will be
sustained far into the future, barring violent threats to the stability of the
national government (Bayley 1992, pp. 533-35).

   But counts of police agencies do not show the complete picture about the
nature and extent of industry fragmentation (Klinger 2004, p. 121). The 2004
census of state and local law enforcement agencies showed that the largest 6
percent of state and local agencies (100 or more full-time sworn officers)
accounted for 64 percent of all sworn personnel, whereas the 74 percent of the
nation's departments with  [*60]  fewer than 25 officers accounted for only 14
percent of the nation's state and local sworn force (Reaves 2007, p. 2).
Although these statistics reflect a still impressive level of multiplicity
within the police industry, it shows that most Americans receive service from
fewer and larger police agencies. That is, America's policing industry is more
concentrated than a mere tally of agencies suggests.

   Further, the high degree of police service fragmentation in America is
concentrated in patrol services. The provision of many specialized services
(including criminal investigations, detention, communications, training, and
crime labs) is more centralized, often provided under contract, or by law, to
smaller departments by nearby larger municipal, county, or state agencies or
regional facilities (Ostrom, Whitaker, and Parks 1978; Fyfe 1983; Parks 2009).
Even basic patrol services in small departments may involve special arrangements
with other agencies to provide service in certain areas or at certain times of
the day. In addition, mutual support and backup agreements often exist between
proximate police agencies (Parks 2009). Observers often suggest that the
American system is rife with overlapping jurisdictions and sporadic coordination
of agencies (President's Commission 1967, p. 301; Reiss 1992, p. 65; Manning
2006, p. 118), but there is some evidence that the overlap (though real) is
managed, does not merely rely on evanescent personal relationships, and rarely
produces confusion, inefficient duplication, and conflict in the actual delivery
of local service (McDavid 1977; Ostrom, Parks, and Whitaker 1978, pp. 301-16;
Parks 2009). The reason is that for the most part the web of arrangements is
cooperative and institutionalized. And there is not systematic evidence showing
that the degree of integration of units within police agencies (especially large
ones) is any greater than the degree of integration between them (especially
small ones). It may be easier for Andy of Mayberry to coordinate police
operations with the neighboring counties than it is for the commissioner of the
New York Police Department to coordinate the various components of his massive
organization.

B. Police Consolidation Movement

   The desire to consolidate small American police agencies first surfaced as
good government reform in the 1930s and then again as part of a movement in the
late 1960s and 1970s, with the support of a number of national commissions and
police leaders (Altshuler 1970, p.  [*61]  38; Douthit 1975; Murphy and Plate
1977; Walker 1977, pp. 141-46; Parks 2009). It never gathered much steam and has
remained mostly low visibility except for the rare occasion when large agencies
are joined, such as the merger of New York City's housing, school, and transit
police with the municipal force in the 1990s (Maguire and King 2007, p. 341).

   The principal objective of the consolidation advocates has been to merge the
nation's many small agencies into much larger entities. The typical arguments
for consolidation of these small agencies are as follows: new police
technologies cost more than most small departments can afford, large departments
make cost-efficient the hiring of specialist experts that small departments
cannot afford, small communities cannot afford to deal with the increasing
litigation or threat of litigation against the police, larger departments can
afford to hire better-qualified personnel and give them more training, larger
departments can provide more and better service by achieving economies of scale,
and larger agencies are better equipped to adapt to the changing nature of crime
(e.g., cybercrime; Tully 2002).

   The ability of so many "Lilliputs" of policing (Ostrom and Smith 1976) to
withstand these criticisms comes from several sources. First, there are the
explanations that derive from technical performance--the "rational" evidence, so
to speak. Small agencies have dealt with many of the challenges of
cost-efficiency and economies of scale by seeking consolidated assistance for
the specialist functions expected of contemporary police, while continuing to
deliver more basic patrol service, widely regarded as the "backbone" of police
work. This patrol efficiency appears especially easy for small agencies to
achieve because as agencies grow in size, they seem to require
disproportionately more administrative, supervisory, and support staff (Ostrom,
Whitaker, and Parks 1978, pp. 85-91; but cf. Langworthy and Hindelang 1983;
Scott 1998; Klinger 2004, p. 132). Other sources of small-department efficiency
undoubtedly derive from the characteristically lower salary and benefits offered
(especially in rural areas) and lower investment in training (Weisheit and
Hawkins 1997; Weisheit 2005).  n1 If the cost of policing is directly related to
its quality,  [*62]  smaller and rural departments should be in trouble, but at
least one standard indicator of performance suggests that they tend to
outperform large agencies in clearance rates for major offenses (Cordner 1989;
Falcone, Wells, and Weisheit 2002).  n2

   Second, the people served by small departments may place a special premium on
certain things that small departments deliver with greater ease but that large
departments struggle to produce: accessibility and interpersonal familiarity
with the community, less "red tape," more time on patrol, and law enforcement
that is customized to the preferences of a smaller, more homogeneous community
(Wilson 1968, pp. 211-15; Crank and Wells 1991; Mastrofski and Ritti 1996;
Weisheit and Wells 1999; Maguire 2003; Schafer, Burruss, and Giblin 2009). This
may be reflected in the often higher levels of satisfaction with police reported
by residents of smaller communities, which, while not always showing a clear
superiority of small-town over big-city policing (Lovrich 1985), does undermine
the consolidationists' claims that big-city police service is necessarily better
than that of small towns in metropolitan America (Mastrofski 1981, chap. 3;
Skogan and Frydl 2004, pp. 171-73; Parks 2009).

   Finally, there is an array of political and historical forces at work (Reiss
1992, pp. 63-68): the enduring custom, noted by Alexis de Toqueville ([1835]
1990), of Americans' fondness for using local government to deliver key
services; the legal constraints placed on central cities to incorporate outlying
areas, thus creating an environment conducive to the explosive growth of suburbs
ringing the metropolitan area; and the absence of a cohesive constituency to
support consolidation and the absence of widespread police leadership interest
in consolidation--all in the face of a persistent desire among community leaders
for local control of the police (Mastrofski 1989). If "autopsies" were routinely
held for disestablished small police organizations (King 2000, p. 228), a useful
hypothesis would be that the more frequent cause of death was failure to find
financial subsistence, not public dissatisfaction with performance.

 [*63]  C. Private Security

   The efflorescence of private security and private policing in the United
States adds to the fragmentation of the policing industry (Cunningham, Strauchs,
and Van Meter 1991; Reiss 1992, p. 65; Shearing 1992; Bayley and Shearing 1996;
Jones and Newburn 1998; Loader 1999). To the extent that public police and
private police compete in the same market place, it seems clear that in the
latter half of the twentieth century, private policing considerably expanded its
share of the market, private security officers outnumbering sworn public
officers by a factor of four by 1995 (Maguire and King 2004, p. 20; Forst 2005,
p. 363). Yet, except in rare cases, it is not clear that private security is
moving American police out of their traditional niche; rather it may be
expanding much more aggressively into rapidly growing sectors of the marketplace
for policing services, for example, mass private space (Shearing and Stenning
1981), a pattern noted in the United Kingdom (Crawford 2003, p. 149). Indeed,
the public side of the American policing industry increased employment in the
1990s and early 2000s,  n3 a time when crime was declining nationally (Blumstein
and Wallman 2006). What may have changed is the appetite for public policing
services desired by communities and their ability to pay for them in an
expanding national economy. A significant stimulus to the increase in local
police may have been fueled by the public's growing desire for a more
community-oriented brand of policing (Mastrofski 2006a, p. 45) coupled with the
emergence in 1994 of an effectively marketed federal program with the stated
purpose of adding 100,000 officers to America's police industry to engage in
this practice (Roth 2000).

   The implications of private policing's growing presence in the marketplace
may not be obvious. First, off-duty public police are one source of labor for
private policing (Reiss 1988). Second, there are at least two alternatives to a
zero-sum competitive market model that have been noted abroad (Crawford 2003, p.
157): one in which the public police serve in a "steering capacity" to accredit
and govern private policing and another in which public and private police are
coordinated in a loose network rather than in a hierarchical relationship.
[*64]  Adding to this complexity is the late-twentieth-century decline in the
monopolization of police authorization and governance by the state, with many
other authorizing entities arising (private corporations and not-for-profit
groups, e.g.; Shearing 1992). It remains unclear as to who governs the domains
of private policing and to what effect. A useful line of research would attempt
to establish more clearly the presence of each model and its implications for
the practice of policing.

D. Attenuators of Fragmentation's Effects

   The tenacity of this American cultural phenomenon notwithstanding, other
forces are afoot in the United States that may do more to unify police practices
across the nation than organizational consolidation. Professional police
associations (e.g., the Police Executive Research Forum and the Commission on
Accreditation of Law Enforcement Agencies) appear to be exerting a growing
influence on police organization practice, especially in the interest of
identifying and promoting "best practices." They are abetted by a federal
government that has worked with them in developing policies that guide federal
support (especially financial) to promote community policing and other au
courant reforms (Mastrofski, Willis, and Kochel 2007). And add to this the
pressures from the federal government to get state and local agencies to
collaborate with federal agencies and adhere to their operational preferences in
combating the threat of terrorism (Thacher 2005; Greene and Herzog 2009; Maguire
and King, forthcoming). Thus, the pressure to reduce variability among America's
numerous local police agencies necessarily takes a more subtle, but perhaps no
less consequential, form. Indeed, it is the pressure for orthodoxy in
structures, forms, and practices continuously emanating from wave after wave of
American police reform since the mid-nineteenth century that should make us
cautious about the claim that the fragmentation of America's police industry
sustains "independent entities with their own unique structures, cultures,
policies, and procedures" (Maguire 2003, p. 3). Like reforms in other types of
organizations, police reform has a "viral" or "copycat" quality (DiMaggio and
Powell 1983), perhaps making police departments (especially in the same size
range) as much alike as different. The multiplicity of American police agencies
nowadays may well belie a much higher degree of conformity than scholars,
police, and politicians commonly allow. The consequence of an industry with
[*65]  many organizational entities is not necessarily a commensurate degree of
diversity.

E. Accounting for the Persistence of Fragmentation

   We consider two theoretical approaches for accounting for the American
persistence with the fragmentation and complexity of the public policing
industry (Mastrofski and Ritti 2000; Maguire and King 2007; Willis, Mastrofski,
and Weisburd 2007). One is a technical/ rational, or contingency, theory that
organizations strive to succeed in their environments by a rational process of
adopting the structures and practices that evidence shows are best suited to
achieving their ostensible (technical) objectives, such as community safety.
Here organizations (or their leaders) survive and thrive or wither (or depart)
according to their ability to compete with others in the marketplace for
providing the relevant technical results. Another approach is institutional
theory, which emphasizes that organizations respond, not to the technical
aspects of their environment, but rather to cultural features (beliefs) about
how organizations should be structured and operate--beliefs and systems that
operate independently of what the technical environment may require.
Organizational legitimacy depends then on adhering to the beliefs and
preferences of powerful entities in the environment, stakeholders of consequence
for police organizations--sometimes called "sovereigns." In what ways are each
of these theories useful?

   One can make a straightforward argument that an industry populated with many
smaller departments persists because this arrangement works well in a
technical/rational sense. The preponderance of evidence reviewed above suggests
that most smaller communities are not convinced that larger agencies are in
general more effective in keeping their communities safe, but rather that they
are often less efficient and usually less responsive in serving their more
diverse stakeholders than their smaller, generally less diverse counterparts.

   Or it may be that a more complex technical/rational argument applies. Perhaps
smaller communities, especially those with lower levels of crime and disorder
than their big-city counterparts, place a higher priority on other aspects of
police service than the assurance of public safety. Perhaps in less
crime-threatened environments, citizens place a higher premium on being able to
govern their police than they would in a more threatened environment and are
therefore reluctant to consolidate,  [*66]  even when consolidation might be the
more efficient route in terms of technical performance (Mastrofski 1989). If
this were so, then rapidly rising crime rates in the smaller communities should
be associated with a subsequent increase in the likelihood that police service
would be consolidated into a larger agency. We are unaware of any tests of this
hypothesis. Some cross-sectional studies have attempted to compare the impact of
large versus small departments by matching the character of neighborhoods, but
such studies are limited in what they can tell us about the consequences of
greater consolidation or fragmentation for a given community.

   What is more challenging for rational/technical theory is explaining the
persistence of the many fewer large police organizations in the face of their
efforts to acquire the responsiveness of the smaller agencies. Here it may be
that the availability of more resources for these agencies makes it possible to
acquire the trappings of legitimacy that institutional theory predicts will be
adopted because of the acceptance of those structures and practices by powerful
sovereigns as the "right" way to organize a police department. The adoption of
community policing and Compstat reforms has been understood in this way (Crank
1994; Mastrofski 2006a; Willis, Mastrofski, and Weisburd 2007).

   The consequences of America's nationwide system of fragmentation are not
conclusively established because determining that requires cross-national
comparisons, which are few and are often more impressionistic than rigorous. It
is not established that a fragmented national industry structure is necessarily
more or less effective in coping with crime and public safety; nor is it well
established that a fragmented system is more or less efficient or equitable or
more or less observant of human rights. According to some, this can be explained
by a highly unitary national police system compensating for being highly
decentralized in its internal command structure, thereby affording the sort of
local flexibility that many have felt is the key to a police organization's
survival (Bayley 1992, pp. 540-41). Submitted in evidence are the Japanese koban
system and certain decentralized community consultation features of large
Australian state agencies.

   Explaining the persistence of extensive organizational multiplicity in local
policing in the United States is made more challenging when the American
experience is compared to that of nations with a somewhat similar legal
historical background, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia. All of these
nations have consolidated police service into  [*67]  many fewer and larger
agencies, with state and regional forces taking a more pervasive role (Bayley
1992). Reiss (1992, p. 67) attributed the difference, at least in the United
Kingdom, to financial incentives supplied by Parliament, noting that Americans
were loath to forfeit control to a central federal government, a preference that
we note was reinforced by constitutional limitations on the restructuring of
local government in the United States.

F. Implications of Fragmentation for Police Innovation

   In addition to receiving good public service from their police, vital
societies have an interest in stimulating innovation. What are the implications
of a fragmented system structure for the innovativeness and adaptability of
police organizations in that system? Not much is empirically established, but
the general literature on organizational innovativeness offers an interesting
possibility: system fragmentation could facilitate more experimentation and
testing, while impeding the widespread adoption of organizational innovations.

   It has not been empirically established that highly consolidated policing
systems are more innovative or adaptive; they may in fact be less so, precisely
because the risks, challenges, and visibility of change increase with the size
and complexity of the (more consolidated) organization and the entrenched
influence of stakeholders. The highly decentralized structure of the American
policing industry would appear to provide a nurturing environment for the
percolation and testing of new ideas. Some innovation will occur, and police
departments throughout the industry can benefit from knowledge gained from these
novel efforts. Yet observers note the challenges of accomplishing widespread
diffusion of local police innovation, since change must be accomplished on a
"city by city, county by county, and state by state basis" (Walker and Macdonald
2009, p. 486). This frustrates many American police reformers because major
changes tend to take a long time to diffuse widely, or as they diffuse, they are
diluted or substantially modified, so much so that departments will claim to
have implemented the same reform but be performing it quite differently
(Mastrofski 2006a). Thus, in America's fragmented system, even when an
innovation has matured and achieved widespread adoption, we should expect
considerably more variation in the execution of that innovation among American
police than in a system in which policing is more consolidated.

   Addressing this issue with more than theoretical speculation calls for  [*68]
cross-national comparisons of systems with different degrees of system
fragmentation. Such comparisons must be made carefully, since there are other
system-level factors that may influence the susceptibility of a law enforcement
system to innovation, such as the commitment to research to develop and assess
innovations, conducted largely by people working outside of police agencies
(Bayley 2008, p. 15). With this in mind, it might be fruitful to assess the
impact of profoundly different levels of system structure in the United States
and Israel, which has a highly centralized policing system. Israel might be
expected to show greater resistance to adopting innovations but to implement
them rapidly and comprehensively once the decision is made to adopt them.  n4

   There are many challenges in learning broader lessons about industry
structure from cross-national comparisons, due to so many other features of
nations and their policing systems that may influence outcomes. However,
America's policing industry itself is sufficiently diverse to make possible the
observation of effects of within-nation variation at the metropolitan level. A
1977 survey of 85 metropolitan areas in the United States found that the number
of agencies providing patrol service ranged from as few as one (complete
consolidation) to as many as 91 (highly fragmented) per area (Parks 2009, p.
191). Researchers should consider updating and assessing the implications of
such inter-metropolitan area variation.

   II. The Internal Structure of American Police Organizations

Organizational structure is the "internal differentiation and patterning of
relationships among an organization's components" (Thompson 1967, p. 51). We
attend to a police organization's structure because of the commonly held belief
that structure plays an important role in its effectiveness, whether defined as
mission accomplishment or regime survival. Presumably, some structures are
better than others in mediating between an organization's technologies and its
task environment, which is characterized as those parts of an organization's
surroundings  [*69]  or context that are "relevant or potentially relevant to
goal setting and goal attainment" (Dill 1958; quoted in Thompson 1967, p. 27).

A. An Overview of Historical Trends

   The dominant structural trend in American police agencies from the late
nineteenth to the late twentieth century was what is popularly termed
"bureaucratization" (Reiss 1992, p. 69): more hierarchy, specialization, and
formalization (specific rules/policies and documentation of adherence to them).
n5 Police organizations were hardly unique in this regard, as this trend
dominated both the American public and private sectors generally (Wilson 1989).
The social, economic, and cultural forces driving this trend were manifested in
various police reform waves (Fogelson 1977; Walker 1977) that appeared almost as
soon as American policing shifted from avocational/entrepreneurial modes to
vocational ones embedded in municipal and county organizations, a process taking
many years (Klockars 1985, chaps. 2-3). Historical analysis suggests that both
the law and the military served as models for reform (Fogelson 1977; Klockars
1988), first creating "politicized bureaucracies" and later weakening political
influences with the introduction of civil service reforms that based selection
and career advancement on merit, rather than the influence of weakened urban
political party machines (Reiss 1992, pp. 69-72). The consequences for the
structure of American police organizations, especially visible among medium-size
and large departments, were much greater relevance of internal decision
processes, as political penetration declined; the elaboration of an internal
command and control hierarchy designed to centralize the power of top department
officials (visible in the growth of supervisory and management ranks); and
increased complexity in the form of the division of labor among growing numbers
of specialist units.

   At the end of the first decade of the twenty-first century, American police
organizations are still well characterized as bureaucratic in structure,
although perhaps more for larger than for smaller ones, since most of what we
know about police organization structure comes from studying departments with
100 or more officers (Langworthy 1986; cf. Mastrofski, Ritti, and Hoffmaster
1987; Hassell, Zhao, and Maguire 2003; Maguire 2003; Maguire et al. 2003).
Whether and in what way  [*70]  the many smaller municipal agencies are becoming
more bureaucratized is unknown, although there are clear limits for truly small
departments. Another shortcoming of our knowledge is that police researchers
have tracked only police agencies over time; we know little about how
bureaucratic police departments are compared to other organizations, such as
armies, schools, hospitals, courts, churches, private security firms, and
manufacturing firms. While there are reasons to suspect that public
organizations tend to be more bureaucratic than private ones (because of the
inclination of government to place more constraints on public than on private
organizations, and this is becoming increasingly so for police; Wilson 1989;
Boyne 2002), we lack a body of empirical research that compares the nature and
extent of police bureaucracy to bureaucracy in other types of organizations.

B. Measuring Dimensions of Organizational Structure and Structural Change

   Police organization researchers, drawing on Blau (1970) and others, have
identified many dimensions of organizational structure relevant to police that
subsume the three described above (Langworthy 1985; Maguire et al. 2003; Wilson
2003, 2006). One group of characteristics pertains to the ways in which the
organization's work can be divided: functionally (across different department
units, such as patrol, investigations, and communications), occupationally
(using persons from different occupations), vertically (the degree of
hierarchical differentiation), and spatially (geographical dispersion, such as
dispersing police work among precincts and patrol beats). In addition, there are
structural elements associated with control and coordination of the
organization's work: centralization (the extent to which decision making is
concentrated), formalization (the amount of emphasis on specific rules and
procedures), and administrative intensity (the degree to which organization
resources are committed to administration or support instead of operational
matters).

   Two questions arise about the internal structure of policing: how much do
American police agencies vary structurally, and how, if at all, is this pattern
changing? Students of American police typically characterize the structure of
local agencies in the United States as highly variable in a way that is
virtually taken for granted. Yet it is not so clear just how much structural
variation there is, in large part because of the difficulties in acquiring
comparable data for a fully representative  [*71]  sample of local police
agencies. What is available typically focuses on agencies with 100 or more sworn
personnel. Focusing only on larger agencies undoubtedly reduces a great deal of
the variation, but even within this large group, the pattern of structural
variability does not exactly conform to expectations. One study of 401 large
departments based on 1997 data sets showed impressive levels of variation on
spatial differentiation (number of stations and beats in the jurisdiction;
Wilson 2003, p. 283). For example, the average number of beats for the agencies
surveyed was 11 with a standard deviation of 29. However, such variation is
undoubtedly driven in large part by covariation with the population of the
jurisdiction served, so that a mere count of beats is as much a reflection of
the jurisdiction's size as of the degree to which it spatially subdivides its
patrol work. In the same study comparatively modest variation was found on many
other structural indicators reflecting other forms of differentiation and
structural control. For example, formalization was measured as the number of
issues covered by policy directives (up to 15). The average for the departments
was 12, but the standard deviation was only 2, suggesting that there was not a
lot of variation on this dimension. One might expect even less variation among
smaller agencies, especially the many with fewer than 25 officers, because of
the constraints placed by small size on the number of beats, hierarchy,
functional specialization, and administrative staff (Falcone, Wells, and
Weisheit 2002, p. 374).

   How much the internal structure of police organizations has changed depends,
of course, on the time frame. Reiss (1992) suggested that police departments had
made tremendous changes toward greater bureaucratization by the end of the
twentieth century. These claims are based largely on records from departments'
archives and historians' accounts. Recently researchers have attempted to track
longitudinal structural change from surveys of large numbers of police agencies
conducted at more or less regular intervals. One analysis tracked structural
change in 236 police departments of 100 or more officers between 1987 and 1993,
finding that functional differentiation significantly increased and
organizational height (the extent to which the top department salary differs
from the bottom one) significantly decreased, but formalization, administrative
density (persons assigned to administrative jobs), and occupational
differentiation (civilians employed) showed no significant change (Maguire
1997). A follow-up study tracked a slightly later and longer time period
(1990-98), showing statistically  [*72]  significant declines in centralization
and administrative intensity and significant increases in occupational
differentiation (civilianization) and organizational height, but no change in
segmentation (number of command levels), formalization, and perhaps functional
differentiation. The spatial differentiation increased in some ways (number of
stations and ministations), but there was no change in the number of beats
(Maguire et al. 2003).

   Given the mixed nature of effects over just a few years, it is difficult to
generalize about their meaning; but perhaps most significantly, the researchers
noted that where it occurred, the magnitude of change was "quite small" (Maguire
et al. 2003, p. 271). Further, the reliability of some measures was a concern to
them; perhaps even more telling, one can worry about the validity of measures
derived from institutional surveys requiring the respondent to make broad
generalizations about such things as the extent of centralized decision making
or spatial dispersion (Weiss 1997; Maguire and Mastrofski 2000; Wilson 2006).
n6 Worries about measurement reliability and validity aside, what we may take
from these studies appears to be that in the 1990s there was no dramatic trend
toward or away from the forms of bureaucratic structure noted by Reiss early in
the decade.

   The absence of evidence of dramatic structural change among American police
agencies during the late twentieth and early twenty-first century, though
perhaps not surprising, is counter to the hopes of many progressive reformers
whose advocacy of a less bureaucratic, more flexible, and community-oriented
policing began to surface in the turmoil of the 1970s and achieved federal
financial support and widespread acceptance among police leaders by the first
half of the 1990s. Tapping into many of the organizational prescriptions popular
in the private sector, community policing advocates encouraged departments to
deformalize, reduce hierarchy, decentralize, and functionally despecialize,
while increasing geographic specialization (Skolnick and Bayley 1986; Kelling
and Moore 1988; Goldstein 1990; Reiss 1992; Mastrofski 1998; Mastrofski and
Ritti 2000; Maguire 2003; Skogan 2006c). National surveys of police departments
repeatedly have shown that community policing  [*73]  programs (community
partnership, problem solving, crime prevention) and easy-to-implement
organizational changes (revising mission statements, creation of joint task
forces) have been widely popular as a way to implement the reform (Maguire and
Mastrofski 2000; Roth 2000; Roth, Roehl, and Johnson 2004), but these changes
appear to have been appended to the organization without much altering the
underlying structure (Mastrofski 2006a). As early as 1993 nearly all respondents
to a large national survey of police executives felt that community policing
should be pursued, but fewer than half said that the meaning of community
policing was clear, and only 27 percent felt that it would require extensive
reorganization of police agencies (Wycoff 1994). That is not to say that there
is no evidence of any change made under the rubric of community policing. Some
in-depth, on-site studies of individual departments have suggested that
structural changes have taken place, especially in decentralization and
territorial specialization, but there are also many such studies that fail to
find basic structural changes (Mastrofski 2006a, p. 49).

C. Implications of Structure for Police Innovativeness

   Just as the structure of America's policing industry has implications for its
innovativeness, so too does the internal structure of a given police
organization. Some of the innovation diffusion research indicates that several
structural features may promote innovativeness, such as decentralization,
complexity (measured as the range of occupational specialties employed and their
level of professionalism as reflected in formal training), formalization, and
organizational slack (the availability of uncommitted resources; Rogers 2003, p.
412). However, no structural features have emerged that distinguish more from
less innovative organizations (Wolfe 1994, p. 409). The adoption of community
policing as an innovation lends itself to a study of this sort, and some have
examined this issue, finding only weak or modest effects for most structural
features on the adoption of community policing elements and not necessarily
consistent with expectations (Zhao 1996; Wilson 2006). Perhaps the most
consistent finding is that police department size (presumably a proxy measure of
organizational slack) is significantly related to the adoption and
implementation of community policing.

   Two points are noteworthy for researchers desiring to explore police
structure-innovation linkages. First, innovation researchers have found  [*74]
that structures that may encourage experimenting with or adopting an innovation
may later impede the scope, intensiveness, or quality of its actual
implementation (Zaltman, Duncan, and Holbek 1973; Hage 1980, pp. 209-10;
Damanpour 1991; Wolfe 1994; Rogers 2003, chap. 10). Thus, researchers should be
careful to distinguish the initial acceptance/adoption of a police reform from
its actual implementation. Second, over the life course of an innovation in a
police agency, there is clearly reciprocal causation between the structure of
the organization (decentralization) and the practice of the innovation
(partnering with community groups), a feature that is made quite explicit in the
reform doctrine of community policing, which lumps structural changes with a
host of programs and officer practices (Wilson 2006). Failure to model this
feedback loop could cause researchers to overstate the effects of many
structural variables on the implementation of the reform.

D. Consequences of Structure for Organization Success

   We care about the structure of police organizations insofar as it has
consequence for their success. Here we face many challenges, largely unmet, in
learning the influence of structure on police organization performance. First is
the challenge of measuring success (Moore and Braga 2004). According to a
National Research Council committee's report, the most frequently used measures
of police organization success focus on crime and disorder control and law
enforcement (Skogan and Frydl 2004, chaps. 5-6). Also used are general measures
of citizen satisfaction or assessments of police competence (Gallagher et al.
2001). Less frequently measured are police use-of-force measures and complaints
against police. Rarely used are indicators of how police use their authority
informally (which is far more frequent than formal applications), the quantity
and quality of assistance rendered to citizens in need, and the fairness and
effectiveness of police processes. Even less studied is police organization
success in community building (Mastrofski 2006a, p. 58). Although there is a
growing literature on many of these outputs and outcomes in assessing the
practices of individual officers (Skogan and Frydl 2004, chap. 4), there is much
less of this research at the organization level, attempting to learn the impact
of organizational features. These lacunae are due in part to the priority given
by police, policy makers, and researchers on crime control and law enforcement
as central police missions, which has translated into a reduced priority for
gathering other sorts of information (Willis,  [*75]  Mastrofski, and Kochel
2010). Changing performance monitoring systems is a major task, and that may not
be the highest priority of even those police leaders who see merit in it
(Mastrofski 2003). The gaps in performance measurement are also due to a
disinclination of social scientists to develop measures that distinguish good
from less good performance, for example, rather than predicting arrests,
predicting the best resolution of an incident, which in many cases might be
something other than arrest (Mastrofski 2004, p. 109). Finally, there is a
dearth of studies of the extent to which different organizational structures
contribute to the short- and long-term success of the organization as an
entity--resource growth, "market share," prestige, regime tenure, and so on.
These outcomes may not seem as compelling for the purposes of program
evaluation, but they are very much on the minds of local police and the
officials responsible for them and thus figure largely in a reform's prospects.

   Second, the research that attempts to estimate the effects of police
organization structure is often captive to the limitations of readily available
data sets (often large surveys and censuses of American police departments and
the communities they serve), which means that the empirical analysis is
impoverished by its limited capacity to test interesting theoretical
propositions. For example, a long list of contemporary police experts (Bittner
1970, 1983; Muir 1977; Goldstein 1990; Klockars 1995; Kelling 1999) and two of
the most popular and radical proposals to change police organizations in recent
decades--problem-oriented and community policing--have embraced the adoption of
a model of true professionalism (e.g., requiring knowledge and skill in a
special body of expertise, commitment to an ethical code of how to practice, and
a significant degree of autonomy from those outside the profession) for
discretion control, rather than that associated with being a "snappy, low-level,
soldier-bureaucrat" (Bittner 1990, p. 260). Wilson (1968) identified a
department's professionalism, along with its degree of bureaucratization, as the
source of differences in policing styles. Reiss (1971, pp. 121-24) illuminated
the tension between police as professionals and bureaucrats, particularly
because the expectations of professionalism call for them to exercise their
well-informed, autonomous judgment independent of commands from the
organization's hierarchy. Much of his book was devoted to appreciating how the
low-ranking patrol officer negotiated the conflicting requirements of
professionalism and bureaucracy. Many of the most popular contemporary  [*76]
reforms call for a strengthening of professionalism, and it may be ascending as
a means of securing organizational legitimacy.

   Yet with few exceptions (e.g., Smith 1984) researchers have done little to
examine whether there has been a commensurate strengthening of structures that
promote professionalism and trace their consequences. Instead, structural
studies focus almost exclusively on the classic elements that define the extent
to which the police organization is bureaucratized. The presence of
professionalism cannot be assumed by the degree to which bureaucracy is absent.
Organizational indicators of professionalism might include, for example,
policies, units, and procedures designed to screen for and develop certain
aspects of moral character and technical skill among police officers. They would
also include organizational structures designed to promote the development and
institutionalization of a professional body of police knowledge (Bayley and
Bittner 1984). And they could include organizational elements that provide for a
professional (as opposed to bureaucratic) review of the degree to which police
practice conforms to professional standards. One indicator of professional
influence is the extent to which police organizations accept lateral transfers
between organizations of officers of mid and upper ranks. Undoubtedly, many
police professional structures are only weakly developed in most police
organizations, yet the absence of research that looks for this starkly
illustrates the limited scope of research on police organizational structures.

   At the intersection of both bureaucratic and professional structures rests
the office of the first-line police supervisor, usually holding the rank of
sergeant. Despite the widely held view among police and scholars of the critical
nature of the sergeant's boundary-spanning role between management and line
worker (Rubinstein 1973; Muir 1977, 2008; Van Maanen 1983, 1984; Werder 1996),
remarkably little empirical research has been done to consider how the
requirements of bureaucracy and professionalism are advanced through this
office, how organizational structures influence supervisory styles, and with
what consequence for the work unit's performance. The best available empirical
work is mostly ethnographic and dated, occurring in the 1970s, although a small
body of quantitative observational work has appeared in recent years. Much of
the older work emphasizes how sergeants negotiate the tensions arising between
the often conflicting expectations of the hierarchy and subordinates. More
recent work, drawn from  [*77]  a single observational study, examines different
supervisory styles that emerge and their consequences for behavior (Engel 2000,
2001, 2002). One study found that subordinate officers' choices about how to
spend their time were influenced by their perception of their supervisors'
personal priorities more than their own, although subordinates often
misperceived the values of their supervisors (Engel and Worden 2003). This
suggests the dominance of a somewhat clumsy bureaucratic model over a
professional one. Future research would benefit from distinguishing the
supervisors' priorities from their methods of leadership so that we might better
understand the role they play regarding bureaucratic and professional models of
policing.

   Another limitation of the research on organizational structures is the
concentration on comparing police organization structures at a given time.
Longitudinal data, where available to support quantitative analysis, cover only
a few years (typically less than a decade). While it may be a valuable exercise
to track short-term structural changes and their consequences, the expectations
of politicians and entrepreneurial police leaders notwithstanding, it is hardly
realistic to expect most trends to be distinguishable except over much longer
time periods. Neither Rome nor most contemporary police structural reforms were
built in a day. Cross-sectional data sets make causal inference challenging, and
it is very difficult to gather reliable, theoretically useful data across large
numbers of agencies, not only on performance measures but also to control for
other influences that might mask or reveal as spurious the effects of structure
on performance.

   For example, researchers often wish to take into account the nature of the
police organization's environment in estimating the effects of organization
structure; yet those who try to do this with large samples of departments find
that available measures are typically limited to a narrow range of demographic
and socioeconomic indicators routinely collected by the Census Bureau rather
than the sorts of environmental forces that produce more direct and
consequential influences. Not uncommonly, data on the most interesting and
policy-relevant environmental features are not readily available, and so
researchers are unable to say much of use about how police organization
structure interacts with those parts of environment that truly matter. One of
the most obvious omissions in this literature is variations and changes in the
legal environment--legislation and judicial decisions (Reiss and Bordua 1967;
Klinger 2004). Another is the nature and extent of other organizations  [*78]
and leaders who try to influence police policies, practice, and performance
(Skogan and Frydl 2004, pp. 196-202). We might well expect that there are
important interaction effects between a police department's structures and these
features of its environment that determine how it will respond. And not
infrequently, measuring these effects requires a degree of subtlety and ability
to distinguish variation in police practice within a jurisdiction (Mastrofski
and Ritti 1996). That is why the most cited studies often rely on in-depth
comparisons of small numbers of departments, such as the eight agencies in
Wilson's classic Varieties of Police Behavior (1968). These small comparative
studies also have their challenges, such as their limited capacity to generalize
from small, nonrepresentative samples.

   In the face of all these hurdles, it is unsurprising that the National
Research Council panel on police policy and practices (Skogan and Frydl 2004,
pp. 173-85) and others (Klinger 2004) concluded that relatively little can be
said about the influence of police organization structure on actual police
practice. They found that there was insufficient research to draw conclusions
about the impact of decentralized police structures on meeting the needs of
jurisdictions. The panel noted that there were few studies assessing the impact
of occupational and functional specialization, and the results are mixed. The
committee found inadequate evidence to make any conclusion about the effects of
hierarchy on police practices. The committee further concluded that there was
some evidence that spatially focusing police work (e.g., stable beat assignments
and efforts to have officers spend time in those beats) did increase officer
knowledge of and commitment to the neighborhood, but that these effects were
sustained only when organizations employed other structures to reinforce this
behavior. Finally, the committee found that the limited evidence available was
suggestive that formalizing policies can produce desired effects. The supporting
research came from case studies of efforts to increase the formality and
constraints on specific policies, usually studied in one or a few organizations.
The results were encouraging for restrictions on the use of lethal force
(especially when following an organizational crisis), but other policy areas
failed to produce similar results (handling public drunks, dealing with
pornography, and implementing domestic violence policies; Klinger 2004, p. 128).
Perhaps formal policies more easily extinguish undesired behaviors than
stimulate desired ones. And of course, because the committee did not conduct a
full systematic  [*79]  review of the entire body of research, it is likely that
many studies failing to show a formalization effect were not published, thus
perhaps overstating the effects of formalization. This led to a qualified
conclusion, making obvious the need to know more about the aspects of
formalization and other features of the policy's context that may influence its
success.

   Finally, with rare exception American police research has avoided studying
rural and small-town policing, despite what on the face appear to be profound
differences from larger departments in terms of structure. The nation's major
engines of police reform gear their recommendations to larger agencies, yet
there is very little evidence of the value of these reforms (such as community
policing structures) for smaller departments. In the absence of such research,
we are left to ask what works for the distinctly less bureaucratic departments
that are small and rural.

   III. Police Technology

The structure of police organizations is widely thought to be influenced by and
to influence technologies that police may adopt. "A technology is a design for
instrumental action that reduces the uncertainty in the cause-effect
relationships involved in achieving a desired outcome" (Rogers 2003, pp. 13-14)
or, in more practical terms, it is "the means by which raw materials are
converted into processed outputs" (Manning 1992, p. 353). Technologies can have
a number of components: material (physical), logical (processes that presumably
transform inputs into work products), and social (who does what and in what
manner; Manning 1992, 2005; Mastrofski and Ritti 2000). Technologies can vary on
a number of features, an important one being their "determinacy," the
reliability of the technology in producing the desired result (Hasenfeld and
English 1974, p. 13). Some policing technologies are thought to have high
determinacy, such as DNA analysis; some are thought to be much lower, such as
fingerprint analysis; and some are virtually discredited, such as bite mark
analysis (Committee on Identifying the Needs of the Forensics Science Community
2009).

   Technologies employed by the police are numerous and support diverse
functions (Manning 1992, p. 351), such as coercion (weapons and martial arts),
mobility (transportation vehicles), detection (forensics methods, such as DNA
analysis), surveillance (closed-circuit television  [*80]  [CCTV], digital
imaging for facial recognition, and remote sensing devices), and analysis (data
mining software). Clusters of technologies may coalesce to perform some function
(Rogers 2003, p. 14), such as those involved in crime prevention and problem
solving (Eck 2006) or information gathering, processing, and communication
(Manning 2003). Moreover, some technologies have been slow to change. Despite
the remarkable growth of information technology available to patrol officers in
the last few decades (mobile digital terminals connected to vast databases,
portable radios, video cameras, and cellular phones; see Manning 2003, chap. 5),
the basic elements of police motor patrol have remained little changed since its
ascendancy in the 1930s and thus far have not been significantly displaced by
new and competing patrol technologies, such as hot-spots policing (Manning 2003,
chap. 5; Mastrofski 2005b; Mastrofski, Weisburd, and Braga 2009). It leaves
low-ranking officers the discretion to patrol where and how they choose when
they are not otherwise assigned to respond to calls for service or
administrative duties. However, communications and surveillance technologies
have changed considerably, "trickling down" from technology developments in the
military (Haggerty and Ericson 1999). These changes have vastly increased the
accessibility of information to law enforcement officials.

   The array of technologies police employ is vast and diverse; generalizing
across them is risky. We focus our discussion of police technologies on the
above two (patrol and information) because they afford opportunities for
insights into technologies' stability and changeability. Patrol still consumes
the lion's share of resources in most local police agencies and for that reason
alone warrants consideration. There are three reasons that we have elected also
to discuss technologies designed for information gathering and processing.
First, "The core technology of police organizations is the production and
processing of information" (Reiss 1992, p. 82; see also Manning 1992, p. 352).
Second, many contemporary organizational innovations rely heavily on
transforming past police information technologies for their success: community
policing, problem-oriented policing, hot-spots policing, Compstat,
evidence-based policing, and predictive policing (Weisburd and Braga 2006;
Bratton, Morgan, and Malinowski 2009). Third, there is a small but significant
body of research that assesses the consequences of contemporary developments of
information technologies in police departments. In the case of police patrol, we
consider reasons for its remarkable  [*81]  stability as a core technology. In
the case of information technology, we consider its impact on police
organization, culture, and practice.

A. Police Patrol Technology

   Preventive patrol has been used by police as early as thirteenth-century
Hangchow (Kelling et al. 1974) and was one of Sir Robert Peel's innovations
introduced with the London Metropolitan Police in 1829. Before technological
advancements of the automobile, telephone, and two-way radio were incorporated,
police patrol was not too mobile (limited largely to walking beats), and
decision making was highly decentralized and little supervised (Kelling and
Moore 1988; Reiss 1992, p. 83). By midcentury the rising star among police
progressives, O. W. Wilson, was trumpeting motorized preventive patrol as a way
to avert crime (Kelling and Moore 1988, p. 13). For at least 70 years it has
been the most visible, most common, and most resource-consuming crime control
strategy that American police employ. The technology consists of making
uniformed police as visible as possible (e.g., using uniforms and marked
vehicles on "random" patrol) on the streets and in other public areas to create
a sense of police presence sufficient to deter potential wrongdoers from
committing offenses and disturbances and to enable police to respond quickly to
developing problems and crimes in progress.

   The boon companion of preventive patrol is "reactive patrol," which requires
the patrol officer to interrupt preventive patrol to respond to requests for
intervention. Presumably a rapid response enables the police to deal with
problems before they can escalate further, catch criminals, or at least gather
information and evidence that will facilitate apprehension of the offender
(Spelman and Brown 1981). Together these techniques have been enabled by the
automobile (mobility), the telephone (allowing the community to easily summon
the police), and the two-way radio (giving administrators the capacity to direct
and monitor operations; Reiss 1992, p. 83). They have been termed the "standard"
model of police crime and disorder control because they rely heavily on
interventions that are reactive and one-size-fits-all, as opposed to targeted
and customized (Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 223).

   Research conducted in the 1970s and 1980s helped discredit these standard
model technologies by failing to find crime control effects (Kelling et al.
1974; Spelman and Brown 1981). Although some of this  [*82]  research has since
been faulted methodologically, their conclusions have been widely publicized
among police and scholars and become part of the received wisdom of
criminologists and a growing body of progressive police leaders: standard
approaches to crime control are regarded as ineffective and inefficient (Sherman
et al. 1997; Skogan and Frydl 2004, chap. 6; Weisburd and Eck 2004). In the wake
of these revelations, other patrol techniques have been developed and tested:
disorder (broken windows) policing, police crackdowns, hot-spots policing,
repeat offenders policing, and community and problem-oriented policing (Bayley
2008). The evaluations of most of these approaches to patrol have produced small
or no effects, have mixed results, have been subject to few tests, or have used
weak evaluation designs. The striking exception is hot-spots policing, which has
repeatedly yielded positive results using rigorous evaluation designs (Skogan
and Frydl 2004, p. 240; Braga and Weisburd, forthcoming).

   Thus far, community and problem-oriented policing have probably had the
greatest impact in challenging American departments' commitment to the standard
approach to police patrol. These methods require unhitching officers from the
yoke of 911 reactive policing and using their time instead to work in
partnership with community groups to solve the problems to which citizens give
high priority. Instead of spending so much time dealing with citizens' requests
and preventive patrol, officers mobilize by attending community group meetings
and working with them and other organizations to focus proactively and
creatively on problems (Skogan 2006b).

   We do not have studies drawing on a representative cross section of
departments that tell us the extent to which the standard patrol model has been
displaced by community and problem-oriented policing. However, some case studies
of a few progressive agencies committed to these reforms suggest that
departments implementing these reforms worked hard to maintain their commitment
to standard patrol technology while developing small groups of patrol officers
who were given time to engage in community and problem-oriented policing.
Chicago's storied Chicago Alternative Policing Strategy program kept 75 percent
of its patrol force engaged only in the standard model, but the remainder were
assigned to "beat teams" and were given a lighter standard patrol workload to
find time to engage in community policing (Skogan 2006b, pp. 59-64, and personal
communication). The department clearly maintained a major commitment to
sustaining the model  [*83]  of standard policing, but the size of the resource
commitment to the alternative strategy was considerable. Unfortunately, neither
the department nor the researchers were able to gather much information about
the extent to which beat officers used their spare time to engage in the new
methods. Systematic observation of similar efforts in other cities has shown,
however, that although community policing specialists do spend significantly
more time on nontraditional methods, traditional patrol and engaging the public
in face-to-face service contacts tend to dominate the work of community policing
specialists, as well as traditional patrol officers (Parks et al. 1999; Smith,
Novak, and Frank 2001). Thus, while the last two to three decades have witnessed
an increasing willingness of American police to experiment with new methods for
patrol officers, they do not appear to have supplanted the resource commitment
of American police to continue standard preventive/reactive patrol in the
traditional fashion (Lum 2009).

   What could account for the persistence of a largely discredited patrol
technology while other alternatives are available? One possibility is that
American police are simply too invested in the structures and practices of the
standard patrol technology, even if the scientific community considers it
ineffective. For decades, police staffing levels have been justified to meet
calls for service demand and to having adequate slack time for preventive
patrol. That strategy has endured in bad economic times as well as good, when
crime was rising and falling, and whether public confidence in police was
ascendant or declining (Gallagher et al. 2001). Thus, although the main features
of the now standard technology were adopted over the course of only a couple of
decades (following the rapid expansion of mass availability of motor vehicle
ownership beginning in the 1920s), since then there may be insufficient
environmental pressure to stimulate a similarly rapid change from that
technology to something else. Or it could be that transforming such a massive
and fundamental technology just takes more time. American police organizations
may still be in the early stages of testing and experimenting with alternative
technologies, such as hot-spots policing,  n7 but they may be on the road to
meaningful change. If some early adopters develop and successfully implement an
alternative technology  [*84]  on a radical scale, then that may encourage
others to follow (Rogers 2003). In the interim, police departments may be
keeping the new, alternative technologies at the periphery of the organization's
service delivery system, allowing them to learn by experimentation, while
receiving credit from relevant stakeholders and peers for being innovative.

   A second possibility is that scientific evaluations of the standard model
have not measured the performance indicators that exert the greatest influence
on police policies and practices. Police visibility and responsiveness increase
citizens' perceptions of crime-fighting effectiveness and satisfaction with
police service (Dukes, Portillos, and Miles 2009), and one of the most frequent
complaints police administrators receive is that a neighborhood is not getting
enough police patrol or timely police responses to calls for service.  n8

   The importance of the police-citizen encounter has been emphasized in a great
deal of ethnographic and quantitative research on police service delivery. The
standard model gives priority to citizens' requests for service, and in-person
encounters serve as the principal medium by which the public is able to
experience and assess police service (Reiss 1971). With fairly high consistency
researchers have found that what the police do in these encounters powerfully
sways the public's confidence in and satisfaction with the police (Skogan 2005),
and the aspects that seem to be especially powerful are not displays of
crime-fighting prowess but rather process-oriented actions that demonstrate
fairness and concern toward the public (Tyler and Huo 2002; Skogan and Frydl
2004, chap. 8; Skogan 2006a). Ironically, good police performance in these
contacts with the public does not appear to improve significantly the public's
confidence in police, but bad performance has a strong negative effect (Skogan
2006a). This may reflect what Bittner (1970) noted about the public's
ambivalence about the police as a sort of necessary evil (using tainted methods
to accomplish worthy ends), but it in no way diminishes the public's desire to
have the police at their beck and call, which is the hallmark of democratic
policing (Jones, New-burn, and Smith 1994, pp. 185-86; Bayley 2006, p. 20).

   One of the drawbacks of the most promising focused technologies  [*85]  is
presumably what makes them effective--their strategic nature. Being strategic
means being far more selective about who or what gets targeted, which increases
the sensitivity of various segments of the community about getting their fair
share of police protection and service (Thacher 2001; Mastrofski, Weisburd, and
Braga 2009). If we think of police resource allocation as a poker game, the new
strategic alternatives require police to place fewer bets (e.g., on hot spots)
at much higher stakes and with greater uncertainty as to outcome, whereas the
standard policing technology (e.g., a reactive calls for service system) allows
police to make many bets (e.g., whether to respond to each of a host of
individual calls) with much lower stakes per bet, but with a more certain
outcome. Few responses result in unhappy service requesters, and research
suggests that contemporary urban police agencies distribute service according to
this mechanism with a high degree of equity according to need (Skogan and Frydl
2004, p. 315). Strategic redistributions of police resources make very
transparent any inequality in the distribution of effort, which subjects police
to greater pressure from any constituency feeling ignored. Thus, despite the
crisis mentality that not uncommonly arises among police administrators faced
with limited resources that cannot keep pace with rising calls for service
workloads, police departments have not drastically revised this long-standing
feature of their organizations.

   The standard patrol technology may have remained robust over many decades
because it (and the accompanying organizational structures it requires) is best
designed to serve, not as a means of crime and disorder control, but rather as a
way to distribute fairly equitably a wide range of services on which the public
places high value. Although community policing promises this too to some extent,
it has remained at the periphery of policing's technical core, a "spice" that
flavors the "main course" of traditional police patrol. Police and their
governing overseers may simply not be willing to cut substantially a standard
strategy that distributes without much controversy what the public perceives as
highly tangible benefits (Mastrofski 1999; Manning 2003, p. 246).

   It is worth comparing the American experience with patrol technology to that
of other nations that have had profoundly different ones. Societies that emerged
from colonial status in the twentieth century are a good example. Generalizing
about the nature of their colonial and postcolonial experiences is risky, but as
one review concluded,  [*86]  "Post-colonial policing is still generally
concerned with law enforcement and the maintenance of internal security. Other
similarly important areas of police work like police welfare roles and community
policing are yet to emerge as significant features of policing in many
post-colonial countries in the developing world" (Cole 1999, p. 99). Many,
though by no means all, of the current police forces in post-colonial developing
democracies remain strongly influenced by their former colonial paramilitary
functions, designed to suppress disorder and insurrection that threatened
colonizers' economic interests. In some cases, this has resulted in the
persistence of an entirely different approach to serving the public. For
example, in Trinidad and Tobago officers remained "barracked" in police
stations, performing patrols much less frequently and with the primary purpose
of suppressing offenses and enforcing laws rather than responding to citizens'
requests for service. Efforts to move toward the service-oriented model now
standard in America are highly challenged, even though there is a strong public
desire for such a transformation (Mastrofski and Lum 2008). Those challenges are
many and vary with the society. They certainly include resource limitations and
the inertia of a deeply ingrained police culture, but perhaps the most
significant is a reluctance of authoritarian governments to relinquish the use
of police as instruments of their political will (Cole 1999, p. 101). There are
rich research opportunities here for understanding the adoption and
implementation of policing technologies in the very different environments of
these postcolonial states.

B. Information Technology

   We focus our discussion of information technology (IT) on whether innovations
in IT alter police structures and practices or whether their uses and usefulness
are determined by existing structures and practices. Optimists look for and find
that technological advances improve efficiency and performance and that they
require and stimulate changes in the structures, culture, and practices of
policing. Skeptics find that new technologies have little impact on these
aspects of the organization or that they have perverse, unanticipated
consequences (Chan 2003).

   Police departments were using large mainframe computers in the 1970s
primarily for administrative tasks; by the early 1980s, the use of computers was
fairly widespread among larger American police agencies (Allen et al. 1983). The
adoption of personal computers for use  [*87]  by operational personnel
skyrocketed, jumping from 5 percent to 56 percent between 1990 and 2003, with 83
percent of police nationwide employed in departments for in-field use (Hickman
and Reaves 2006). By 2003 the vast majority (80-90 percent) of the nation's
police agencies used computerized data systems to monitor the activities of
their officers (arrests, citations, calls for service, etc.); as many as one in
four of departments serving a million or more population used computer files to
track illegal attempts to purchase firearms (Hickman and Reaves 2006), and these
files are growing massively in size and in some cases accessibility across
jurisdictions (Haggerty and Ericson 1999). By 2003 the vast majority of
departments serving more than 25,000 made a wide variety of enforcement-relevant
information readily accessible to officers in the field (Hickman and Reaves
2006). New approaches to surveillance grew rapidly as well. Between just 2000
and 2003 the number of departments regularly using video cameras in patrol cars
jumped from 37 to 55 percent. About half of the nation's officers worked in
departments using thermal imagers. And finally, it appears that increasing
numbers of departments have been analyzing patterns in their data sets to detect
actionable patterns of crime. A 1993 survey of large departments found that 13
percent of departments required most patrol officers to conduct crime analysis
for their assigned area (Maguire 2003, p. 126), and a more recent survey found
that crime analysis technologies were concentrated in typically small special
units overwhelmingly staffed by civilians, where the average ratio (including
those with no one assigned to crime analysis) in 2000 was one full-time crime
analyst per 143 sworn personnel (O'Shea and Nicholls 2003). Although these
findings suggest that crime analysis is far from fully used by patrol officers,
this example illustrates the potential of innovations in information gathering,
storage, retrieval, and processing.

   The impact of these ITs is variable by type of technology and police
organization or system. Although IT has not supplanted human police entirely,
certain uses seem to have reduced the need for police to perform some
traditional patroling techniques. For example, the widespread use of
surveillance devices in the United Kingdom (Goold 2004), especially the CCTV on
motorway hot spots and other locations, presumably frees officers from
preventive patrol and reactive enforcement to perform other duties.  n9 Evidence
of CCTV's crime control  [*88]  effectiveness is mixed though in general deemed
to be positive, but heavily contingent on the type of offense and spatial
context in which the technology is used (Ratcliffe 2006, p. 20).

   A view of the effects of new IT as more pervasive is represented by Ericson
and Haggerty (1997), who see the proliferation of these devices as a key element
in facilitating the growth of police work as "information work." They and others
(Chan et al. 2001) note that much of the patrol officer's time is spent
acquiring, recording, and using information from records and that this far
exceeds the amount of time consumed in law enforcement activities that are the
grist for popular mass media portrayals of the police. Their framework gives the
new IT in policing a prominent role in the growing "risk society" network of
information exchange, in which the police provide other government and
private-sector risk-managing institutions huge amounts of information, as well
as drawing from those institutions (insurance companies, financial institutions,
retail establishments, departments of transportation and health, etc.) The
important issue is how and how much the new IT has altered what police do and
how they do it. It is difficult to know how much time was spent on these
activities at various points before the IT revolution, but we can be fairly
confident about some things. Police now appear to rely more heavily on certain
IT-based forms of surveillance--"database policing"--where officers use
computers to "patrol" massive data files (e.g., wanted lists) looking for "hits"
on information they possess on suspects (Haggerty and Ericson 1999, p. 240;
Meehan and Ponder 2002; Chan 2003, p. 659). And while such surveillance-based
policing is made more efficient, timely, and accurate, it may be less useful for
other purposes that require an analytic capacity to detect patterns in events
that illuminate the utility of possible interventions (Nunn and Quinet 2002).

   How much individual officers have become dependent on IT to do their everyday
work, and how much it has supplanted traditional methods of acquiring and
sharing information, has not been systematically documented, but the qualitative
contrast between the "old-time beat cops" depicted by Joseph Wambaugh's "blue
knight" (1973) and the IT-savvy twenty-first-century cop is striking. The former
specialized in developing a highly personalized storehouse of information about
[*89]  people and places on his beat, derived mostly from personal contacts and
observation that yielded information rarely recorded or accessible to other
officers. The officer zealously guarded this information--an unsurprising
reaction given the considerable skills and effort it took to acquire (Rubinstein
1973). From his ethnographic work, Bittner (1967) considered an officer's
capacity to garner intimate knowledge as essential to good patrol work, but this
practical knowledge based on experience now operates in a workplace where
occupational status is becoming more tied to IT proficiency (Chan 2003, p. 664)
and where the creation of a network of interpersonal contacts has become
increasingly difficult to nourish because officers rarely stay assigned to the
same beat long enough to develop the personal networks and knowledge base that
sustained officers from the late nineteenth to the mid to late twentieth century
(Mastrofski 1981). Indeed, elements of "turf-oriented" community policing have
been designed to support the old patrol officer knowledge technology, but doing
so requires heroic efforts that have not stemmed the erosion of the old
individual-based street knowledge technology (Skogan 2006b, pp. 58-65). Over
time systematic observation of police can tell us the extent to which
street-level officers, like the general public, are investing more time in their
computer screens and less in face-to-face contact with people. Perhaps more
important, these studies can tell us how such a trend is affecting the way the
police and public conceive the police mission and how decision making is
altered.

   Another way in which the new IT may be altering police work is the way in
which the reporting requirements (increased amount of information required for
documentation, more intensive monitoring of officer decision making, proposal of
decision protocols) may actually structure how officers make what were
previously seen as their highly discretionary decisions in the field (Ericson
and Haggerty 1997). For example, the mandatory electronic report form for a
routine burglary investigation walks the responding officer through the key
steps of the process, thus standardizing the sorts of questions the officer
asks, the sorts of evidence looked for, and hence the nature of the entire
inquiry. Computerized systems can police the inquiry by requiring that certain
data entry fields be completed before the officer may proceed to complete other
fields, and the range of acceptable responses can be controlled as well. The
transparency of the officer's work is facilitated by the ready availability of
this information to supervisors and even the  [*90]  public (Chan 2001, 2003).
The profound difference this can make is observable by comparing the
IT-intensive report forms of America and the United Kingdom to those in a
developing nation, where such technology either is not available or is simply
ignored (Mastrofski and Lum 2008, p. 8), and hence the quality of the
investigation depends much more on the skill and motivation of the individual
officer.

   Some of the rapidly developing surveillance technologies adapted from the
military and health occupations show potential for making tremendous changes to
how the police organize, supervise, and review decisions that have long been
visible to the organization's hierarchy only after the fact. For example,
automated vehicle locators, tracking the position of police vehicles, appeared
on the scene in the 1970s but experienced many flaws and were easily disabled or
fooled by police officers who did not want their locations tracked (Larson and
Simon 1978). However, advances in global positioning systems may deliver a much
more robust technology (Groff, Weisburd, and Jones 2008).

   Even more impressive are the devices worn on the headgear of some emergency
medical responders. These minidevices transmit to a remote site the image and
sound of what the responder is seeing and hearing. It is a form of highly
portable CCTV. Police are already experimenting with a Bluetooth-sized version
that records the officer's encounters with the public digitally to be downloaded
and reviewed at the end of the shift (Noguchi 2009). If the technology to
transmit the data in real time to a remote site were made affordable for
distribution to street officers, its widespread implementation could radically
alter the supervision of the traditionally nonroutine, high-discretion work of
the rank-and-file patrol officer. It would enable supervisors at remote sites to
monitor, command, and evaluate the on-site activities of police in real time.
For example, whether and how an officer should interrogate and search a suspect
could be monitored and directed by a legal expert at headquarters. Such a
system, now imaginable, would undoubtedly be treated with hostility by the rank
and file, and possibly also by supervisors, who might be held much more
accountable for the outcome of events that they now serve to judge only after
the fact. And these data would probably serve as evidence in court and
administrative hearings, creating a level of transparency in street-level
policing heretofore unknown. How this would alter police practices and whether
it would constitute an improvement would certainly be matters for research.

    [*91]  From a skeptic's perspective, the tremendous potential impact of new
IT technology on the police organization and police work has not been realized.
Much of the available evidence suggests that early experiences with
technological advancements have had modest effects, have been perverted or
undermined by police users, or have had unanticipated and undesirable
consequences. Peter Manning (1992, 2003, 2005), one of the most prolific
articulators of this perspective, has argued that police departments, especially
the rank-and-file workers, resist using or actively undermine many of the
innovative information technologies. When used, they tend to be employed in
support of traditional practices and structures (see also Weisburd et al. 2003;
Willis, Mastrofski, and Weisburd 2007), or these technologies may be poorly
adapted to police uses. Furthermore, police often have inadequate technical
sophistication and appreciation for what some technologies could actually do for
them. On the basis of his own research and that of others, he concluded, "There
is little evidence thirty years of funding technological innovations has
produced much change in police practice or effectiveness" (Manning 2003, p. 136)
and that the principal function of most of the new police IT was to serve as
"icons of science" that legitimate the police (Manning 2005, p. 243). Yet he was
more optimistic about the future prospects of techniques of rational crime
prevention (e.g., crime analysis, crime mapping, rational resource allocation)
to modify police practice (Manning 2003, p. 249)

   Manning was not clear on the causes for this optimism, but we can think of
several reasons to expect that the effects of police IT innovations in the first
30 years would be substantially less than what we can anticipate in the next 30.
First, technological innovations, most of them originating for use in other
industries (Haggerty and Ericson 1999), require time to be adapted and proven
for police use. Second, many technologies require major changes in the skill set
and culture of the police, changes that can be realized only over the course of
a generation or two of police workers. In comparison to the private sector,
personnel turnover in police organizations proceeds at a slow pace, making
short-term change especially challenging (Sklansky 2006). And third, the
organizational theory and empirical research notwithstanding (Maguire 2003, pp.
22-26), it takes time and energy to know what structures work best for a given
technology and then to adjust those well-embedded structures (many of which have
committed stakeholders who are more interested in how the technology affects
their interests  [*92]  than whether it is successful in meeting its ostensible
objectives). Some of these new technologies may eventually have profound effects
on police, but those who expect them early and without the fits and starts that
come with trial and error will often be disappointed.

   Widespread acceptance and implementation of new technologies may take
considerable time, but the creation of new technologies continues apace. As we
write, progressive police leaders and the U.S. Department of Justice are
launching a campaign to develop and test a cluster of IT technologies under the
rubric of "predictive policing" (Beck and McCue 2009; Bratton, Morgan, and
Malinowski 2009). Currently in the development and evaluation stages, "
Predictive policing includes strategies and tactics that improve the situational
awareness of law enforcement concerning individuals or locations before criminal
activity occurs" (National Institute of Justice 2009, p. 3). Its elements
include closely integrated information systems that offer a broad range of data
about crime; discerning broad patterns in events, people, and places involved in
crime; the use of "cutting-edge" technologies for information gathering and data
analysis; continuing evaluation of system performance against expectations; and
careful integration of information products with operations people and processes
for effective interventions (Bratton, Morgan, and Malinowski 2009). Drawing
heavily from business analytics that forecast market conditions and industry
trends, predictive policing will link data gathered by a wide range of
technologies to a variety of methods of analysis, including some sophisticated
quantitative methods: "dynamic systems modeling and forecasting such as
algorithmic methods, machine or statistical learning, or ensemble methods"
(National Institute of Justice 2009, p. 5). It will also draw on methods of
qualitative intelligence gathering and analysis. These methods have already been
used to anticipate and reduce random gunfire and to evaluate the usefulness of
DNA collection criteria used in convicted felon DNA databases (Beck and McCue
2009). Predictive policing is seen by advocates as the extension of a trend in
data-based police analytics, moving from crime analysis to Compstat (more timely
analysis) to Compstat "plus" (real-time analysis) into predicting the future
(Bratton and Malinowski 2008).

   Predictive policing is then a forward-looking crime diagnostic system
designed to help police identify where and how their interventions can be most
effective in preventing future crime. Its proponents envision a system that can
focus narrowly (predicting future offenses of  [*93]  a serial killer) or large
scale (predicting homicide patterns of an entire city), short term (predicting
crime occurrences in hot spots over the next few days) or long term (predicting
how city development plans will affect police resource allocations for many
years; Bratton, Morgan, and Malinowski 2009). Proponents suggest that it will
make police forces more agile, able to accomplish more with fewer resources.
There are already early-adopting departments around the nation reporting
encouraging results with the application of predictive analytics (Perlman 2008),
and some are making substantial investments in IT hardware and data sharing.

   The emergence of predictive policing offers a rich set of research
opportunities to follow the genesis of what could be a major IT innovation. One
set of questions concerns where and how it will be adopted and how intensively
it will be implemented. Another concerns the performance of the technology: not
only whether it will prove effective in reducing crime but also how it scores on
other criteria, such as efficiency, equity, and accountability to law and
principles of just punishment. It is largely untested as a crime prevention
tool, and there may be some understandable skepticism about the utility of such
predictive analytics for police in light of concerns raised about the role of
probabilistic forecasting models in the recent economic downturn (Economist
2010, p. 5). Yet another set of questions ask how the technology will influence
the internal distribution of power, the nature of the organizational "game," and
the organizational and occupational culture in policing (Chan 2003, pp. 663-68).
Independent of these effects, researchers should also attend to consequences of
adopting this cluster of technological innovations for the legitimacy and
support police enjoy from external stakeholders. While these await empirical
examination, a treatise has already surfaced that argues against the adoption of
such "actuarial innovations." Harcourt (2007) argues that such a system will
likely "profile" certain types of people, but if that group's response is
inelastic to the threat of getting caught and punished, then the overall amount
of crime may actually increase. He also argues that such an approach may also
incur unacceptable, disproportionate social costs for certain groups of people
who are targeted for incarceration. And finally, he is concerned that such a
system will target the greatest policing and punishment effort on those groups
that are predicted to cause the greatest criminal harm in the future, basing
state-invoked  [*94]  punishment not on past practice but on future risk, a path
of justice that may trouble many.

   IV. The People Doing Policing

It seems plausible that the nature of the people brought into police
organizations will influence how police work is done and how successfully.
American police organizations have changed over their history in whom they have
accepted and rejected as workers. From the mid-nineteenth century until well
into the twentieth century, American police drew heavily on certain European
immigrant groups that found police work to be a ladder for upward mobility. But
other groups, such as women and blacks, were largely excluded until civil rights
reforms began to take hold in the latter part of the twentieth century (Fogelson
1977; Walker 1977; Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 312). The representation of
previously excluded racial minorities has continued to increase into the
twenty-first century, although in most jurisdictions it still has not achieved
parity with their presence in the community (Williams and Murphy 1990; Sklansky
2006). The same can be said for women in policing (Sklansky 2006). Those brought
into policing have received more formal education, and once they have become
police officers, departments are giving them more training than ever before
(Reaves and Hickman 2002, p. 3; Mastrofski 2005a).

   The changes in the demographic profile of American police agencies are
attributable to equal employment and affirmative action changes in hiring laws
and court and administrative rulings stimulated by the civil rights and women's
rights movements and litigation (Skogan and Frydl 2004, pp. 79-81; Sklansky
2006; Zhao, He, and Lovrich 2006). The increasing presence of more formal
education and training  n10 emerges from a more diffuse set of forces but was
undoubtedly given focus since the 1970s by reformers, police leaders, and
professional associations wishing to raise policing's occupational status and
improve performance (Skogan and Frydl 2004, pp. 139-42). So in these important
ways the profile of American police is changing, but the key question is, With
what consequence?

    [*95]  The answer is that there is not sufficient evidence available to
answer with confidence, and much of what does exist is contradictory (Sklansky
2006). Although a number of studies document a difference between black and
white officers' beliefs and attitudes, most studies of actual behavior fail to
find a difference in such things as arrest, use of force, demeanor, methods of
restoring order, and engaging in community policing (Skogan and Frydl 2004, pp.
148-49). These studies are usually based on systematic field observations of
individual police officers. The National Academy of Sciences panel on police
policy and practices concluded that the small body of available research
provided "no credible evidence that officers of different racial or ethnic
backgrounds perform differently during interactions with citizens simply because
of race or ethnicity" (Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 148). When considering the
effects of the officer's sex on police behavior, they found the amount of
research too small and results too variable to offer conclusions (p. 151).
Similarly, this panel also judged the evidence to be insufficient to offer
conclusions on the impact of increased formal (college) education and training
on police practice (pp. 139-47). A notable deficiency in much of the research is
its capacity to test whether the effects of the officer's race, sex, and
education/training vary in specific contexts, especially according to the race,
sex, and education of the citizen (Mastrofski 2006b).

   Some suspect that the changing demography of American police organizations is
profoundly affecting organizational dynamics--that by officers having to work
closely with persons of a different race, sex, or sexual orientation, the
culture of policing is changing (Sklansky 2006, pp. 1229-34). Evidence here is
scant, although the emergence of "rival trade groups" of minority officers who
are willing to challenge the traditional perspective of other traditional police
fraternal and bargaining units raises the possibility that these new groups
encourage and sustain a more fragmented culture. We address the evidence on
fragmentation of the police culture in the following section. Here we suggest
that it would be useful to learn the effects of different levels of minority
presence on police forces by comparing the culture and practices of police in
departments with low, moderate, and high levels of minority presence.  n11

    [*96]  Despite the lack of evidence on the consequences of the trend toward
more demographic diversity and education/training in American police agencies,
there is considerable public approval of these change trajectories, but less so
on how they should be achieved and used. For example, overwhelming majorities of
the American public support the principle that a community's police force should
reflect the racial composition of the city. Half or more (depending on race) say
that more minority officers should serve more minority neighborhoods (Weitzer
and Tuch 2006, pp. 139-44). Where consensus breaks down most strikingly is in
whether this diversity should be achieved with racially preferential hiring
practices; minority citizens approve at more than twice the rate of whites. The
high support for the abstract principle of police force diversification
undoubtedly derives from the general support in the American populace for the
desirability of representative democracy (Krislov and Rosenbloom 1981).

   V. Police Culture

The discussion to this point has illuminated numerous ways in which police and
police organizations in America have changed or may be changing. But what
changes, if any, have occurred in the things that police believe and value--the
culture of the police? For many contemporary reformers, changing the culture of
police is the key to changing police practices and organizational performance.
Culture is the term we use for the set of understandings and interpretations
that are shared by a group, that create meanings for the significant events and
challenges the group experiences, that guide how members of the group deal with
each other and those outside the group, that assist them in managing the strains
of their shared tasks, and that distinguish the group and its members from
outsiders (Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 131).

A. Types of Police Culture

   Before we address the question of changes in police culture, we must first
acknowledge the different ways in which the quality of "culture" has been
ascribed to police. Researchers have used three characterizations of culture
(Paoline 2001, chap. 1). First, occupational culture has been used to capture
those value and belief orientations that are presumed to differentiate police as
an occupation from all others and the general public. Second, the notion of
organizational culture applied to  [*97]  police has made possible the
observation that culture may vary from one police organization to another.
Third, subculture has introduced the proposition that across the occupation and
within organizations, it is possible to distinguish distinctly different
beliefs, values, and perceptions that police employ in their daily work. We
summarize the literature on each of these approaches before turning to changes
in police culture, drawing on Paoline's (2001) review of this literature in
characterizing each.

   When social scientists began ethnographic studies of police, they looked for
and found a number of features of contemporary police work that illuminated a
monolithic occupational culture. The physical danger that might emerge, even
from seemingly innocuous situations, coupled closely with the unique authority
of the police to coerce and control, serves to isolate police from the rest of
society inasmuch as society does not fully appreciate the requirements of
dealing effectively with danger and using coercive authority effectively
(Skolnick 1966; Westley 1970). Consequently, officers share a deep suspicion of
situations and people's motives, and they feel constant pressure to be alert for
signs of danger and anything that undermines their authority. Police work is
also laden with uncertainty. Officers routinely find themselves called on to
figure out what is really going on under circumstances in which the quality of
information is untested and the pressure for timely diagnosis is great (Bittner
1967; Muir 1977, chap. 10). Further, there may be uncertainty about what the
organization hierarchy will, after the fact, judge to be the order of priorities
(e.g., catching criminals vs. not violating their procedural rights; Reuss-Ianni
and Ianni 1983). And additional uncertainty is introduced by the asymmetry of
consequences for outcomes. Most police actions may produce no visible
consequences, but of those that do, officers perceive that the greater
likelihood is that undesired events and outcomes are more likely to be noticed
and punished than desired ones are to be recognized and rewarded. The pervasive
threats issuing from within the organization encourage a "minimax,"
lay-low-and-play-it-safe attitude toward unnecessary risk, while clinging to the
ideal of the crime fighter image and being perpetually alert to opportunities to
validate it.

   Police isolation derives also from the widespread belief that the most
valuable skills in police work do not come from the public and its democratic
institutions, from professional sources, or from the bureaucracy (Bayley and
Bittner 1984). The public is viewed as largely clueless  [*98]  as to what
constitutes good policing and how to get it. Formal fonts of knowledge,
especially when based on science, are distrusted as invalid, too general to be
of use in the field, or contrary to the interests of the rank and file (Thacher
2008). Even when results from controlled experiments indicate the most effective
crime control response, officers are reluctant to change their behavior (Sherman
1984, p. 75). Laws, department rules, and policies may establish a rationale for
consequences ex post facto when things go awry, but they are of little use in
selecting the best course of action in the field. Thus, the skills of the police
officer are acquired by learning to piece together the minutiae of situations on
a case-by-case basis in which no two circumstances are necessarily the same. So,
what police officers know, they must learn from personal experience acquired
over time on a case-by-case basis, supplemented by on-the-job guidance from
those most experienced in the craft (Bittner 1967). Only those who have
experienced this reality-based, practical training-by-doing can be entrusted to
judge the work of others, and even here, there is a reluctance to judge the work
of others unless one was on the scene to observe all aspects of the situation.

   So the hazards of the job incline police to social isolation from those who
are not police, and another, related consequence is loyalty to the members of
the police group. Cultural expectations are that an officer will protect other
police, not only when physically threatened but when threatened with citizen
complaints or management scrutiny. Whistle-blowing, such as that of the
legendary Frank Serpico in New York City, is a major transgression of the police
"code of silence" regarding corrupt and abusive practices of one's peers
(Skolnick 2002).

   This view of policing as a more or less uniform and distinct occupation
defined by these features has had a powerful influence on scholars, public
policy makers, and the police themselves. Indeed, reformers and scholars widely
regard the principal challenge of achieving community policing reforms to be
that of transforming the police culture to be less isolated, more willing to
take the risks that innovation requires, and more accommodative of a diverse and
complex role identity (Skolnick and Bayley 1986; Sparrow, Moore, and Kennedy
1990; Rosenbaum and Wilkinson 2004). Despite its widespread appeal, the evidence
on the explanatory power of police culture as a determinant of police practice
is virtually nonexistent (Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 130). First, researchers
have not demonstrated the extent to which these (or  [*99]  any) features of the
police culture distinguish it from other occupational groups. Indeed, social
isolation is a primary feature of the military and certain clergy, whereas group
loyalty would seem pervasive among a host of other occupations as well, such as
lawyers, physicians, and accountants. If the concept of police occupational
culture is to have utility, the ability of its key features to distinguish its
practitioners from those of other occupations seems essential. Second, the
ubiquity of these cultural values is undercut by research of the last four
decades that shows considerable variation among police in the extent to which
they adhere to a common set of values or perspectives.

   Wilson's Varieties of Police Behavior (1968) articulated the view that
officers' policing styles are patterned by features of police organizations
(especially the chief's priorities and methods), which in turn are shaped by the
political culture of their communities. His much-cited depiction of watchman,
legalistic, and service style departments sought validation in field research
coupled with an examination of patterns in arrest rates for various offenses.
Since then a number of studies have explored the variation in police culture
that may be attributable to police organization characteristics. For example,
Klockars and colleagues used surveys of officers to measure the orientations of
police to hold and enforce integrity standards (regarding corruption and abuse).
They found significant variation among police organizations in their support of
integrity and attributed that variation to certain key features of the
organization and its leadership (Klockars et al. 2000; Klockars, Ivkovic, and
Haberfeld 2004, 2006). Other cross-jurisdictional studies have linked department
size and other features to the inclination of officers to make arrests for
certain offenses (Brown 1981; Mastrofski, Ritti, and Hoffmaster 1987). However,
most of these studies focus on central tendencies of officer attitude responses;
while some find statistically significant differences across departments, little
attention is paid to the size of those effects relative to other influences.
Stated another way, what is the scope of variation within departments? One study
looked at officers' orientations to aggressive enforcement and community
partnership in two departments seeking to promote different styles of community
policing and found that although there was a small and significant difference on
one measure (a 4 percent higher approval score on community partnership), the
level of variation in both departments on all measures was quite modest (Terrill
and Mastrofski 2004). The issue raised is whether there is enough cultural
coherence  [*100]  within police organizations to speak meaningfully about
differences in culture between departments. Researchers have simply not explored
this issue in enough places to offer a rigorous test of this proposition.

   The most examined aspect of police culture has been how much it may be
fragmented into subcultures within police departments. A number of studies have
identified different styles of policing, some looking for distinct differences
between management and street officers (Reuss-Ianni and Ianni 1983; Paoline
2001), but most focus on the rank and file only (Broderick 1972; Muir 1977;
Brown 1981; Paoline 2001; Mastrofski, Willis, and Snipes 2002; Wood, Davis, and
Rouse 2004). Most of these studies highlight to what degree officers within the
same department exhibit different cultural orientations toward a wide range of
issues.  n12 One should note that although there are some similarities among
some of the studies in the sorts of attitudes, beliefs, and perceptions that are
measured, there are also important differences. Measures and methods of
observation vary considerably, especially between the studies that explore each
of the three general approaches to defining police culture. Thus, while it is
tempting to accept these findings as undermining the occupational and
organizational cultural theses, they constitute at best a fuzzy test. Careful
attention to using common measures and methods across multiple jurisdictions
would enable researchers to say more conclusively whether and how culture varies
at all three levels.

B. Changes in Police Culture

   We now turn to the question of whether police culture has changed or is
changing. The answer depends on what type of culture we are considering. If
there are some aspects of police culture that bridge all American police, then
by virtue of the size and diversity of the American policing industry, this
would be the slowest to change and the most difficult to detect. One might do so
by tracking representative samples of American police officers, conducting a
survey every several years. This has not been done, but the Police Foundation
conducted a single such national survey (Weisburd et al. 2001). The authors
found that certain police attitudes differed substantially from the traditional
[*101]  characterization of the occupational culture as isolated, defensive, and
hostile to legal constraints.

   We may also draw on case studies of police organizations that track the
change in police attitudes over time. An interesting study used a variety of
measures to assess whether the police culture changed in two Illinois police
departments that were trying to implement community policing and get officers to
embrace its values and practices (Rosenbaum and Wilkinson 2004). The virtue of
this research is that five survey waves were conducted between 1991 and 1997, an
impressive effort by conventional social science standards. Although some
changes were observed, even here there was backsliding over time, causing the
researchers to conclude that the officers' orientations had not changed for the
most part. One might attribute some of this to failures and limitations in the
departments' efforts, but we think that it more likely represents a much broader
challenge. Police organizations try to control the transmission of culture
through formal mechanisms, such as selection, training, supervision, and
exhortation by top leaders (Muir 1977, chap. 12), but police agencies, like many
other organizations, transmit their culture largely through informal mechanisms
over which police leaders simply have little direct control, at least for the
short run. Changing fundamental police values and beliefs rarely happens as a
Pentecost (Buerger 1998), but rather can be expected to evolve only as the "old
hands" depart, leaving more of the new ones, who may have been selected with a
particular orientation or at least may be more open to accepting new ways. It is
especially difficult to anticipate reforming the values of officers who have
developed their skill set under one cultural system. To the extent that values
follow skills and habits, the longer officers are invested in the skill
inventory they possess, the harder it is to get them to be positive about
investing in a radically different set. Hence, we should be surprised and
skeptical if police leaders or researchers report that in a few or even over the
course of several years, they have transformed the culture of their department.

   This is not to say that short-term behavioral change is impossible. There are
a variety of ways to structure work to achieve compliance with expectations,
which was one of the principal virtues of bureaucracy according to Weber ([1922]
1978, p. 223). Commissioner William Bratton (1998) reported "turning around" the
New York City Police Department, moving it away from its lassitude about
enforcing minor quality-of-life violations in the city, but we doubt that much
of  [*102]  the impressive increase achieved in levels of enforcement (citations
and arrests) was accomplished by changing the police culture. Rather, it was by
changing the supervisory and incentive/disincentive systems that harnessed
existing cultural values to the leader's goals. But we hypothesize that
achieving widespread internalization of a remarkably different set of beliefs
and priorities from those dearly and long held simply takes sustained effort
over the course of at least a couple of generations of workers to accomplish.

C. Sources of Cultural Change

   So what forces might work to transform police culture? The answer depends of
course on which aspects of culture we consider. We have selected three types of
cultural change that have been the object of reformers during the last several
decades: reducing police alienation and isolation from the communities they
serve (community policing), shifting greater reliance from craft to science
values (problem-oriented policing), and increasing commitment to integrity over
group loyalty (corruption reduction).

   Accomplishing a profound shift toward less police isolation from the
community and stronger police-community bonds will require structural changes
that go well beyond leadership's exhortation and the creation of special
community-oriented units and programs (Reiss 1992, pp. 91-94). Structural
changes one might hypothesize would promote and reinforce such a cultural shift
include recruiting police from populations that more closely match the
populations served in terms of their cultural heritage (particularly important
in minority and low-income areas that receive police attention disproportionate
to their numbers), maintaining stable assignments of officers to specific areas
over long time periods (years rather than months), and rationalizing the system
of skills and motivation by giving officers useful training and measuring
individual and unit performance in terms of meeting community needs and
expectations and rewarding accordingly. The first facilitates the development of
a better knowledge base, greater symbolic representation (Lim 2006), and more
amicable relations between the police and the public (Sklansky 2006). The second
makes it possible to sustain and use that knowledge and the closer police-public
relations presumed to result (Mastrofski 1981). And the third reinforces desired
practices by enabling officers to engage in desired practices,  [*103]
monitoring, and rewarding them (Willis, Mastrofski, and Kochel 2010).

   The brief history of community policing, however, shows little evidence of
American police organizations being willing or able to implement these changes.
If anything, the pressure for requiring a college education, the difficulty of
recruiting qualified minorities to a police career, and officers' desire for
having the opportunity for a wide range of career-enhancing job assignments have
made it difficult to bring people onto the force who bring with them familiarity
with the cultures of the specific communities they will police. Instead, police
organizations have relied heavily on "training" to fill in the knowledge gaps,
training of untested value in altering the officer's cultural orientation to the
communities to which they are assigned (Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 141). Some
departments have attempted to stabilize officers' beat assignments, but the
competing pressures of meeting the demands for timely response to a burgeoning
load of calls for service, the constraints of personnel procedures that
facilitate frequent changes in job assignments, and the constraints of labor
contracts have made it extremely difficult to achieve these goals, even in
departments that made impressive efforts to do so (Skogan 2006b, 2008). And as
best as one can tell without a systematic study, American police agencies have
not radically transformed the way they evaluate and reward officer and unit
performance. Reinforcing a community-oriented culture would, for example, place
a much higher value on advancing the careers of those officers who had
accumulated extensive knowledge of, contacts in, and influence in the
neighborhoods they were assigned to police. Compare what a promotion test of
this sort would require to what typically appears on police promotion exams.
Especially with the concurrent growth in Compstat's popularity in the last 15
years, most departments continue to focus on enforcement and crime-focused
measures to assess and reward performance (Willis, Mastrofski, and Kochel 2010).
Even the most progressive departments concentrate on general community policing
principles, not the particular knowledge needed to apply them. Without such
structural changes, it is difficult to see how a substantial and enduring
cultural shift toward community partnerships can be accomplished. And it is not
necessarily due to a lack of will among police leaders. Such structural changes
would mean making complicated and profound changes in some of the basic ways of
doing police business in America, changes that would require the collaboration
and support  [*104]  of a wide variety of institutions and authorities, many of
which might be hostile to such proposals.

   The second cultural shift we consider is the movement of police toward an
ethos receptive to a problem-oriented approach--one that shifts from a
craft-based culture to one that gives much greater weight to science (Bayley and
Bittner 1984). Reiss (1992, p. 92) outlined problem-oriented policing as one
direction that police organizations were poised to pursue in the late twentieth
century. Two visions of the integration of science into police culture have been
advanced. One views a bifurcation of the process into scientists as generators
of useful knowledge and of police as adept users of that knowledge (Bayley and
Bittner 1984; Reiss 1992). A more radical conception is of police in full
partnership with the scientific community, engaged in a highly integrated
system, such as systems employed in several health professions, where the
organizational lines separating knowledge-generating enterprises (universities)
and users of that knowledge (medical practitioners, pharmacists) are blurred or
eliminated (Wood and Bradley 2009; Weisburd and Neyroud, forthcoming). This
approach may be more advanced in other countries, such as the United Kingdom and
Australia, at least in attempting to close the gap between the worlds of
research and practice.

   Changes within and outside the police organization are necessary to effect
changes of either sort in the cultural orientation of police. First, the science
of policing must be sufficiently advanced to offer the police knowledge they can
use reliably to solve problems. The explosion of scientific research that
assesses police tactics and strategies in the last two decades has done much to
move beyond the negative findings of the 1970s and 1980s regarding responding
rapidly to calls for service, engaging in preventive patrol, and investing in
criminal investigation specialists. Attempts to evaluate empirical tests of
other strategies have led to encouraging conclusions about what does or may work
well (Sherman et al. 1997; Skogan and Frydl 2004, chap. 6; Weisburd and Eck
2004). Some leaders are turning to scientific evidence to help design and select
strategies to solve problems (Weisburd and Neyroud, forthcoming), and others are
trying to use a combination of scientific and intelligence analysis to engage in
real-time decisions in the field to predict the occurrence of problems (Bratton
and Malinowski 2008).

   The question arises as to whether the state of scientific knowledge about
crime, disorder, and other problems police face is sufficient to  [*105]
bolster the faith of police in its use. Here the state of scientific knowledge
might be judged by comparison to other human service industries (health and
education) to be still in the early stages and not well developed to guide the
selection of most common police practices, much less establish the effectiveness
of new ones. On the basis of a National Academy of Sciences review of
evaluations of police crime, disorder, and fear-reduction strategies, two of the
panel's members concluded that "many policing practices applied broadly
throughout the United States either have not been the subject of systematic
research or have been examined in the context of research designs that do not
allow practitioners or policy makers to draw very strong conclusions" (Weisburd
and Eck 2004, p. 42). The panel of criminologists did find cause for optimism in
the growing body of studies employing stronger research methods. These studies
yield with considerable consistency support for more focused and specific
policing strategies, especially if they are customized to deal with the specific
problem at hand. Hot-spots policing is arguably the strategy whose promise is
most well documented (Braga and Weisburd, forthcoming), but even here there is a
great deal that is unknown about the circumstances under which this approach
will be most successful and least likely to generate undesirable side effects
(Mastrofski, Weisburd, and Braga 2009). The course of action falls mainly to the
police organization's environment--the research industry that supports the
potency of the "technical core" of police (Mastrofski and Uchida 1993; Scott
1998). In turn, this will also require more financial support to bolster the
modest funding for such research than it currently receives--$ 10 million per
year in an industry that annually expends $ 43 billion (Weisburd and Neyroud,
forthcoming).

   An even bigger challenge in shifting from the traditional craft-based
cultural norms to ones that elevate scientific validation as a basis for
strategic and operational decision making is convincing police themselves that,
first, it will work better and, second, it will not expose them and their
organizations to unacceptable risks. Greater rigor and transparency in the
evaluation of what works may be perceived as increasing the likelihood that
failures will be widely publicized, resulting in loss of one's job, resources,
or legitimacy. This is not an insignificant risk since many innovations fail,
especially early in their development (Rogers 2003). Even those researchers and
police leaders most committed to achieving this transformation acknowledge that
science is not now  [*106]  a central part of the culture of police, and it will
be a major uphill slog to make it so (Weisburd and Neyroud, forthcoming). Others
have argued that the policing environment is characterized not just by a desire
to reduce crime but by multiple, conflicting, and ambiguous values, including
equity, due process, and just deserts. Experimental research may illuminate the
best means to a given end, in this case crime prevention, but it cannot resolve
how trade-offs between these values should best be made (Thacher 2001).

   Assessments of police innovation diffusion suggest that police are strongly
inclined to rely not on outside experts in deciding to adopt an innovative path,
but rather on what they learn from the experience of their professional peers
(Weiss 1997; Sherman 1998; Bayley 2008). Hence, diffusion of this approach at
the top levels of the organization will undoubtedly require persuading
high-status police leaders to engage in and promote this approach and to
mobilize the occupational and professional organizations that disseminate
information about what is new and in vogue. Some have argued that the best path
to accomplishing this would be developing close relations between universities
and police departments, just as has been done to structure a vital science-based
arrangement in health care professions and the military (Bradley, Nixon, and
Marks 2006; Weisburd and Neyroud, forthcoming). Aside from whatever technical
benefits may derive from such a close collaboration, it surely will not go
unobserved by many chiefs that an ongoing close association with high-status
research institutions can offer a significant degree of legitimacy to the
police, regardless of the technical results.

   Ensuring that a science-based approach to problem solving permeates to the
street-level officers will undoubtedly take more time and involve an array of
structural changes in recruitment and selection of officers (more with a
science-based college education); protection for those who seek to override
bureaucratic, craft, or political pressures when science suggests another
pathway; and a set of incentive structures that reward active involvement in and
success with applications of scientific knowledge. It may be that successful
integration of a science-accepting culture will not require police officers who
do science so much as ones who accept its legitimacy. The military may serve as
a model here, where science-based technologies and strategies are devised by
specialists (usually civilians).

   The third domain we explore is changing the police culture from  [*107]  one
that prizes group loyalty to one that gives greater weight to professional
standards of integrity. This requires that police develop an intolerance of
corruption and abuse of authority among their members. It requires a dramatic
shift from the "code of silence" thought to permeate the ranks of the police
(Skolnick 2002). This means not only that officers apply those standards
personally but that they are committed to applying them to their peers, which
would include whistle-blowing and informal expressions of disapproval when they
become aware of corruption and abuse.  n13 Internalizing these norms requires at
least two things of the police organization: clearly stated standards of
behavior that are viewed as reasonable and appropriate and a system of
discipline that is predictable, fair, and corrective--as opposed to being solely
punitive (Klockars 1995; Tyler, Callahan, and Frost 2007). In the first case, it
has been argued (with the support of some evidence), that strong leadership at
the very top of the organization is essential for emphasizing the importance of
police integrity as an organizational priority and convincing officers that they
should adopt it as their priority (Muir 1977; Klockars, Ivkovic, and Haberfeld
2006). In the second, the willingness of officers to subject their peers to a
disciplinary process requires that they invest it with good faith, or what some
call legitimacy (Tyler, Callahan, and Frost 2007), which comes from a system
that is seen to attempt to correct problem behaviors, is fair and meticulous in
observing officers' procedural rights, and delivers punishments that are
proportionate to offenses.

   Although some analysts view it as a system independent of the self-regulatory
culture of integrity, also influencing the culture of integrity is the
bureaucratic system of "command and control." This attempts to manipulate
organizationally controlled incentives and disincentives to act in accordance
with integrity standards, assuming that officers are motivated instrumentally,
to maximize their personal outcomes (Tyler, Callahan, and Frost 2007, p. 462).
The command and control approach presumably does not need to change the
officers' culture, just their behavior, by applying incentives and disincentives
that workers most care about (e.g., continued employment and career prospects).
Even if intended to deter misbehavior and promote actions that express
intolerance  [*108]  of misbehavior in others (such as whistle-blowing), the
specifics of how such a system operates cannot but convey to officers the
organization's expectations, as well as its commitment to enforcing them.

   What is not particularly clear from the limited empirical research is how
police organizations can be designed and led to activate either system of
control so that it will promote stronger systems of integrity with some
reliability. One researcher found that when agencies became more authoritarian
and bureaucratized, they increased their capacity to limit corruption, through
such specific practices as holding supervisors accountable for their officers'
practices, using closer surveillance, implementing covert integrity tests, and
ending quotas for units specializing in vice arrests (hence reducing perjury
about evidence that is difficult to acquire; Sherman 1978). Whether and how that
operated only through the command and control path of instrumental variation or
whether that also produced value changes among officers is unknown.

   Another perspective on changing the culture of integrity is offered by
Klockars and colleagues in a series of studies of police and police
organizations, based on surveys of officers in a variety of American departments
(Klockars, Ivkovich, and Haberfeld 2004) and 13 other countries and an in-depth
study of three American agencies (Klockars, Ivkovich, and Haberfeld 2006). To
measure the cultural environment of integrity the researchers asked samples of
officers to respond to a number of scenarios representing varying degrees of
integrity lapses. The culture of integrity was estimated in terms of how serious
the misconduct was judged to be, the seriousness of the discipline expected, and
the willingness of the respondent to report the misconduct. Researchers found
substantial variation among 30 American agencies in their level of integrity and
selected three that scored as "high integrity" for the collection of detailed
information about the processes producing integrity in these agencies. From the
survey of officers, the researchers found strong correlations between the
officers' judgments of the seriousness of the misconduct, the severity of the
likely discipline, and the likelihood of reporting it. They speculated that the
driving force behind high integrity scores was not the values officers brought
with them when they became police or the ethical persuasiveness of training, but
rather the signals given by the organization's leadership in its disciplinary
practices, for example, the certainty, celerity, severity, and fairness of
punishment given for misconduct, a pattern they also  [*109]  perceive in 14
other nations (Klockars, Ivkovich, and Haberfeld 2004, chaps. 1, 15).
Recommendations to foster an environment that breaks down the code of silence
were offered from the three case studies: making it a punishable offense to fail
to report knowledge of misconduct, dismissing officers for lying when questioned
by authorities about alleged misconduct, rewarding officers who report
misconduct, and facilitating anonymous and confidential reporting of misconduct.
These researchers argued that these command and control practices will, when
provided with consistency, produce cultural changes that are ultimately
manifested in behavior.

   However, these recommendations await rigorous empirical testing. Such
research would benefit from two features. First, it would be important to avoid
the many risks of common-method bias by ensuring that measures of the
department's policies relevant to integrity are independent of the surveys used
to measure the culture of integrity in a department (Podsakoff et al. 2003).
Second, the sample of agencies evaluated should not be restricted solely to
those that are high integrity. To learn the consequences of the recommended
strategies, one must allow the criterion measure to vary naturally in either a
cross-sectional or longitudinal fashion.

   VI. Governance of the Police

American democratic principles prescribe that the police are subject to the
governance of other institutions in all three branches of government. At the
local level this means the executive (the mayor or city or county manager), the
legislative branch (the city or county council), and the court system. Sheriffs,
as directly elected county officials, have a somewhat different relationship to
the executive and legislative branches than appointed police chiefs do (Falcone
and Wells 1995, pp. 125-30). But in all instances, the police are expected not
to be a self-governing entity but rather to receive direction or oversight from
all three branches. The key issues here are what forms this governance takes,
how much direction and oversight they impose, and with what consequence for
police practice.

A. Historical Trends in Police Governance

   Historians have chronicled the change in local police structures and
practices from the nineteenth to the twentieth century, some of which  [*110]
have already been noted. American police governance began as a system in which
police were at the center of partisan politics during the heyday of local
political machines. As a consequence, party bosses and elected officials
routinely had a hand in shaping daily and mundane police practices (Fogelson
1977; Walker 1977; Kelling and Moore 1988; Reiss 1992). However, good government
and professional reform waves of the first quarter of the twentieth century set
in motion a series of changes. These changes promoted many police forces that by
mid-century were highly buffered from local politicians' ability to manipulate
the particulars of policing, relegating their influence primarily to selecting
the chief, approving the police budget, and passing local ordinances for police
to enforce.

   Wilson (1968) traced a relationship between the political structure of a city
(traditional, unreformed at one extreme and reformed at the other), its
structures and modes of operation, and ultimately the style of policing its
officers tended to employ. The local political culture influenced police
operations by establishing the boundaries within which the police could operate
without concern for external interference. The key mechanism by which this
occurred was the determination of who would be the police chief, not direct
issue-specific intervention by elected officials. This is not inconsequential,
of course, since the selection or removal of a chief can powerfully signal to
his or her successor the consequences of pleasing or failing to please officials
with responsibility for police governance (Reiss and Bordua 1967).

   Nonetheless, these earlier reforms had clearly given police chiefs and their
departments considerable freedom from everyday political intervention, but by
the late 1960s the police underwent intense public scrutiny and criticism for
having become too removed from the community they served, especially those
ethnic minorities and the poor who lacked political power in city hall. The
emergence of community policing in the 1980s and its 1970s precursors (e.g.,
team policing) is directly attributable to a desire among reformers to rebuild
police legitimacy and strengthen effectiveness by reestablishing a bond with the
community, one that had strong elements of participatory and deliberative
democracy. This is captured by the popular characterization of the reformers'
desired relationship between police and community as a "partnership" (Fung 2001;
Sklansky 2008).

   Of course, police governance practices have proven not to conform so readily
to sweeping historical generalizations. In the late 1970s, a  [*111]  time by
which the political era of policing was thought to be long defunct, research
showed that among a sample of 24 municipalities and counties, American
communities still displayed considerable variety in the structures and practices
of governance, some exhibiting the sort of police autonomy expected but others
retaining the artifacts of the "political" era--an active level of involvement
in directing policing by local elected officials (Mastrofski 1988). A review of
extant research on police governance showed that little research had been
conducted: "based mostly on a few case studies, the available evidence suggests
that when local officials, such as the mayor, exercise influence over the
department, they tend to do so most potently through executive appointment, job
review, and the threat of removal from office" (Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 196).
Some of the studies suggested the involvement of political officials in policing
matters as safely within the bounds of democratic accountability, but others
found evidence of inappropriate or negative interventions (pp. 198-202).

   Besides these case studies, most of the scholarship that concerns itself with
the effects of governing structures on policing examines cross-sectional
variation in the structures, not processes, of governance in large numbers of
communities. Hence, beginning with Wilson's seminal work, a few researchers have
used cross-sectional data to assess the effects of reformed versus unreformed
local political systems  n14 on such things as staffing levels, internal
organization structure, and patterns of law enforcement, but they have by and
large failed to replicate his findings, at least with regard to explaining
variation in internal organization structure (Liederbach 2008). But, considering
a broader historical perspective, this line of research may be barking up the
wrong governance tree by focusing on less relevant features of police
organization structure and practice. The general effect of decades of
professional reform may well have been to move formal governing officials in
many cities further to the periphery of police governance, but other entities
may be filling the void. We consider two possibilities: local community
organizations and professional associations that create a national market for
police administration and leadership. Finally, we consider a traditional source
of governing certain aspects of police practice, the courts.

 [*112]  B. Grassroots Governance

   Inasmuch as community policing has been the most visible banner of recent
progressive reform and law enforcement innovation, it may be especially
important to know to what extent the participatory and deliberative democracy
goals for the governance of America's local police have been realized. Community
policing promises to reestablish a link between the police and members of the
community, but one that focuses not on promoting the political prospects of
partisan interests, but rather on improving the quality of life in
neighborhoods. By encouraging neighborhood residents and businesses to
participate in associations that frequently and actively engage the police in
face-to-face public meetings, the police themselves become directly involved
with them in a grassroots politics of municipal service delivery. It displaces
or augments, at least to some extent, the principal bureaucratic mechanism for
determining how and where police are mobilized: the calls for service response
system that developed during the "professional" reform era as a way of
delivering police services efficiently and equitably. However, it does not give
local elected politicians a significant role in the decision making about what
police do and how their services are distributed (Mastrofski 2006a, p. 59). In
theory, the direct engagement of police and public in grassroots politics should
have profound consequences for who gets what from the police (Thacher 2001).

   Much of what we know about the community-building and community partnership
aspects of community policing comes from two in-depth studies of the
implementation of community partnership programs, one in Chicago and another in
Seattle. The difference between the two is striking. At its powerful mayor's
insistence, Chicago developed a robust and vibrant citywide program promoting
citizen participation in community groups that work with the police to identify
and solve neighborhood problems (Skogan 2006b, chaps. 4, 5). Through trial and
error and considerable effort sustained over many years, the Chicago
neighborhoods showed impressive attendance at monthly neighborhood organization
meetings with police, where issues were debated and discussed, plans for action
made, and results assessed. These meetings were designed to resemble town hall
meetings of New England. Remarkably, involvement in these meetings was highest
in places that most needed police help: neighborhoods afflicted with violent
crime, disorder, and a range of structural disadvantage in economic and social
conditions. The meetings involved more community  [*113]  griping and less
problem solving than the department's planners desired, but they were rich
sources of feedback to the police on neighborhood preferences and assessments of
how things were going. And although the participants in these meetings tended to
draw more heavily on the better-off and more established denizens of the
neighborhoods, those people's concerns were likely to reflect the concerns of
their less advantaged neighbors. And most important, research shows that the
police and an array of other municipal services were responsive to the
residents' priorities and meeting attendance rates (Skogan 2006b, p. 208).
Although other political considerations were not without consequence in
affecting the level of service delivery a neighborhood received (e.g., the
precinct's support for the incumbent mayor), it suggests that Chicago's
grassroots structure had become a significant element in determining who gets
what.

   Seattle's experience with police-neighborhood partnerships in the 1990s
produced a result very different from Chicago's (Lyons 1999). There the impetus
for community involvement originated among community groups, not the department.
Some early advances in participatory and deliberative democracy were achieved
(in terms of police-public engagement, problem solving, and accountability), but
these withered over time, leaving the researcher to judge that they had become
less a two-way communications mechanism than a means to garner community
acquiescence to police priorities and acceptance of police-generated programs.

   The experiences of two large police agencies hardly constitute a sufficient
sample from which to generalize across America's law enforcement industry. But
the striking difference in experience between these two cities suggests that
those wishing to understand the governance of police and its consequences during
the community policing era would do well to pay at least as much attention to
variations within jurisdictions as to variations between them. Where police have
established vital grassroots linkages, there may well be developing a form of
governance that renders even less relevant the traditional electoral mechanisms
for influencing who gets what in the community.

C. Police Professional Associations

   In contrast to the political implications of police involvement in grassroots
organizing, recent decades have also witnessed a growth in the activity of
national police professional associations, and this may  [*114]  affect the
governance of the police by influencing the career prospects of persons seeking
advancement to top police leadership positions (Hassell, Zhao, and Maguire 2003,
p. 245; Skogan and Frydl 2004, p. 309; Mastrofski 2006b; Teodoro 2009). While it
was once commonplace for police chiefs to be selected from within department
ranks, that is now less common, especially for large and medium-sized
departments, where the market is becoming regionalized and nationalized,
providing less assurance of the in-house candidate's selection (Mastrofski
2006b). There is a growing reliance on executive search firms to define and
screen the pool of candidates. Even more important, police professional
associations have prospered and over the last three decades have engaged in
high-visibility marketing of the "best" and "most promising" ways to do
policing, in effect creating a much stronger professional environment than
existed before. Their members and former members are often called on to provide
the "professional" element in the selection of the top police executive.
Up-and-coming chiefs who are not thoroughly familiar with cutting-edge ideas and
programs touted by these professional associations place their career prospects
at risk. And not only do these associations influence standards, they themselves
provide a nationally visible arena in which reputations are established (Teodoro
2009). They are actively engaged in efforts to advance their positions, not only
among police leaders but also with policy makers at all levels of government
(especially mayors, city managers, federal legislators, and agencies). Even when
these associations play no direct part in the selection of chiefs, they
constitute an "invisible hand" in establishing what candidates for the chief's
job must support and do to succeed.

   Of course, the professionalization of governance generally has been going on
since the Progressive Era (Finegold 1995), but it may well have accelerated
substantially in recent years and be achieving even more influence as the demand
for identifying with legitimating standards of performance intensifies (DiMaggio
and Powell 1983). A fruitful line of research would be to explore how much
police leaders' involvement in and ties to occupational professional
associations, and how much they embrace the received wisdom of those groups,
predicts their success in the marketplace of top executive positions, as well as
the policies and practices they seek to adopt once selected. It would be
interesting to learn how local political agendas interact with professional
dynamics.

 [*115]  D. Courts

   Courts oversee a range of police practices: personnel and administrative
matters, as well as practices in the field. Here we concentrate on their role in
overseeing the criminal process, although they play other important roles in
adjudicating civil suits concerning internal administration of police
organizations (Sklansky 2006). Local courts oversee police adherence to the law
by monitoring the criminal cases police bring, and appellate courts establish,
clarify, and change standards of acceptable criminal procedure. One important
question is the nature and extent of the courts' influence on police practice in
its case-by-case oversight function. Another is the extent to which police
follow the operant legal requirements.

   Estimating the influence of local courts on police practices requires two
challenging tasks: measuring variations in how courts and police operate. As
students of court processes have noted, it is not easy to capture the complexity
of court processes since they are the product of the interactions of independent
decision makers such as prosecutors, defense attorneys, and judges (Eisenstein
and Jacob 1977; Eisenstein, Flemming, and Nardulli 1988). Imagine, though, that
one could find ways to capture variations in the degree to which police
procedures are exposed to rigorous scrutiny and the courts act on them. One
might then offer predictions about how closely police conform to legal
expectations, the extent to which they seek ways to "get around" the law (Sutton
1986), and the degree to which other activities or priorities are affected (such
as police stop, search, and arrest frequencies). One might expect to observe
considerable variation across American criminal courts at any time and changes
over time. To our knowledge, such studies are not available.

   Police compliance with criminal procedure standards has been studied since
the "due process revolution" of the 1960s. Most of it has been descriptive,
merely attempting to establish how much police deviate from applicable legal
standards (Skogan and Frydl 2004, pp. 255-67). The results are quite variable.
Police compliance with some standards (e.g., Miranda on police interrogation)
was spotty initially but eventually did achieve a high rate (96 percent in one
study), albeit performed in a rather perfunctory manner designed to undermine
the defendant's inclination to invoke his or her rights. Or in compensation, the
police increased their use of noncustodial interviews to avoid Miranda's
requirements. Similarly, some studies have observed either no  [*116]
appreciable change in police practices in response to restrictive court rulings
or a host of strategies to circumvent Fourth Amendment protections (sometimes
with the cooperation of magistrates; Sutton 1986; Uchida and Bynum 1991).
However, some research has reported high, though variable, rates of police
noncompliance with the rule of law in such areas as the use of less-than-lethal
force (38-84 percent; Terrill and Mastrofski 2004) and warrantless searches (30
percent; Gould and Mastrofski 2004).

   What emerges from this pattern is the obvious point that appellate court
decisions are not self-enforcing and that the consequences of a given ruling for
street-level practice are highly conditioned by what the police organization and
other local legal institutions do about it. For example, researchers have found
instances in which departments have coupled a variety of administrative actions
with a restrictive ruling on use of deadly force to reduce the frequency of its
use (Fyfe 1979; Sherman 1983; Tennenbaum 1994). The situation-contingent nature
of the consequence of appellate court governance is part of a larger pattern
noted in research on the effects of appellate court cases involving the
practices of local government agents (Becker 1973).

   VII. Stability and Change in American Policing

A leitmotif of this essay has been the tension between the temptation to
overstate the capacity of American police to resist change (Guyot 1979; Manning
2006, p. 104) and the temptation to overstate their susceptibility to change
(Zhao 1996). These temptations arise in part from the American habit of valuing
change (De Tocqueville [1835] 1990) and, depending on our perspective, being
frustrated by failing to observe change that meets our expectations or being
inclined to find indicators that our police are fulfilling them.

   Resistance to change arises from a variety of ranks and units, from unions,
from other organizations that have business with the police, from politicians,
and from the public (Guyot 1979; Skogan 2008; Greene and Herzog 2009). The very
difficulties of leading police organizations today, especially large ones, make
it challenging to provoke, guide, manage, and sustain change, even when there is
no lack of will to do so (Mastrofski 2002). Yet we must be careful not to
mischaracterize police organizations as "especially" intransigent, for it is not
at all clear that they as a group are any more resistant to change than  [*117]
other organizations, such as schools, armies, hospitals, churches, and, in
recent years, American automobile manufacturers. Some have argued that police
organizations were remarkably susceptible to pressures to change in the
nineteenth and twentieth centuries, albeit largely symbolic ones that preserved
the legitimacy of the core functions of the police (Klockars 1988). And some
have argued that the last three decades have been a period of intense ferment
and real change for American police as well (Bayley and Shearing 1996; Braga and
Weisburd 2006, forthcoming; Weisburd and Braga 2006; Bayley 2008). All this is
to say that generalization about police organization change is hazardous.

   In this section we consider two movements for change that are "big reforms"
(Bayley 2008): community policing and terrorist-oriented policing. The former
had precursors in the 1970s and surfaced in the 1980s; the latter emerged in the
wake of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. We
attempt to understand how these reform movements have transformed American
policing. We recognize that they represent broad and complicated innovations and
do not represent all movements for change, but for their scope alone, they
deserve attention. In both cases we note that the forces at work over the life
course of each reform movement are dynamic and that how innovations such as
these are initially conceptualized and how they are institutionalized tend to
differ. In both cases, pressure for change was initiated outside of police
agencies, but as is often the case (Weisburd and Braga 2006; Bayley 2008), the
scope and direction of change that actually occurred were heavily influenced by
police efforts to protect the core service-oriented structures and operations
that have long sustained American police. To the extent that these
preservationist efforts reflect conscious leadership choices, we suspect that
the motivation is primarily one of not putting at risk what the public values
most in the current environment.

A. Community Policing

   The key elements of change introduced by community policing are that the
public should be much more engaged in policy making and service delivery; that
the police should engage in problem-oriented policing, which requires a focus on
outcomes, experimentation, and empirical evaluation and a commitment to
customizing the selection of a policing approach to the particular problem at
hand; and that  [*118]  decision making should be decentralized in the
organization to middle managers and the rank and file (Skogan 2006c). It has not
been conclusively established nor is there agreement on just how far American
police agencies as a group have progressed on these change dimensions or whether
these changes are accomplishing their goals,  n15 but it is widely acknowledged
that many agencies are challenged to go beyond superficial implementation and
that the changes that have been accomplished are still fragile and vulnerable to
fluctuations in federal funding and competition from other reforms with
competing priorities (such as Compstat; Roth, Roehl, and Johnson 2004; Braga and
Weisburd 2006; Eck 2006; Mastrofski 2006a; Skogan 2006c; Reisig, in this
volume). Despite the indeterminate evidence on its implementation and success,
community policing remains a popular idea among police and community leaders and
the public.

   To better appreciate this state of affairs, it is useful to consider the
trajectory of the community policing reform. Crisis or strong external pressure
often makes organizations more susceptible to trying something new by creating
an acute sense of a "performance gap," which can set off the innovation process
(Rogers 2003, p. 422). It is now standard among police scholars to describe
crisis-inducing events and trends of the late 1960s and 1970s as the motivating
force behind what eventually developed as the community policing movement
(Fogelson 1977; Walker 1977; Kelling and Moore 1988). Skyrocketing crime rates,
riots, accusations of racism and brutality, corruption, inefficiency, studies
discrediting the effectiveness of standard policing technologies, and
middle-class cynicism about government generally and the police in particular
came together in ways that placed American police in a defensive posture. That
stimulated blue-ribbon panels, experts, and some progressive police leaders to
propose alternatives to alleviate this pressure. While precursors of community
policing surfaced in the 1970s (team policing and community relations units),
community policing began to emerge as a distinct entity in the 1980s and
achieved widespread acceptance within a few years of the federal government's
promotion of it by the creation of the Community Oriented Policing  [*119]
Services (COPS) Office in 1994.  n16 Interestingly, just about the time the COPS
program was launched, urban departments around the nation began to experience a
decline in crime, especially violent crime (Eck and Maguire 2000), a trend that
has continued, largely unabated, to the present.

   One might argue that the "big-ticket" crime-focused pressure for change had
begun to dissipate, at least at the national level, although there was certainly
continuing local community pressure for greater involvement and more
responsiveness to neighborhood needs in some cities. Public confidence in police
has remained high, and while local law enforcement staffing growth rates are now
slowing in a troubled economy, the industry is not (yet) in crisis.  n17 There
is, in fact, little reason to risk the demanding changes called for by the more
structurally disruptive elements of the reform, especially those that require
altering a host of difficult-to-change structures and practices: creating
permanent beat assignments, maintaining high levels of beat integrity, freeing
up large amounts of time from answering calls for service to work with community
groups on neighborhood problems, giving community members a say in how their
neighborhoods are policed, and training officers to do problem-oriented
policing. And unless some compelling force (such as a powerful mayor) pressures
police organizations to attend to these things, a good working hypothesis is
that it will be difficult for police agencies to create or sustain momentum to
make such changes. One might argue that merely "building a better mousetrap" is
enough to have the nation beat a path to the reform and follow suit, but
Chicago's impressive effort of more than a decade to build and institutionalize
neighborhood-oriented community partnerships into its structures and practices
has not been widely emulated, or at least not validated empirically. Thus, while
it may no longer be fair to write community policing off as a mere
"circumlocution" (Klockars 1988), it appears not to have done a great deal to
transform long-established  [*120]  structures and operations of the vast
majority of American police agencies. Drawing on the innovation diffusion
literature, Braga and Weisburd (forthcoming) suggest that police innovations
will be adopted to the extent that they are compatible with existing values and
ways of doing things. Given the smorgasbord of community policing innovations
available, it is not surprising that changes are modest. Making truly radical
changes requires unsettling often well-ensconced and powerful interests, and
this may be accomplished only if a sense of pressing need pervades this phase of
the innovation process.

B. Terrorist-Oriented Policing as Innovation

   If one is struck by the attenuation of a crisis mentality to energize the
implementation of community policing in that reform's third decade, one must
certainly acknowledge the crisis atmosphere that propels the movement to involve
state and local police in countering terrorism in the United States in the first
decade following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. These events
reshaped national policy and also focused attention on the role of local police
in combating the threat of terrorism (Greene, forthcoming; Maguire and King,
forthcoming). Unlike community policing reform, few local police themselves have
been in the vanguard of this movement, which arguably has been led by national
leaders who have urged on federal law enforcement and homeland security agencies
the task of recruiting local law enforcement into this role.

   Given the far greater number of state and local police officers compared to
federal law enforcement agents, it stands to reason that a substantial
counterterrorism role is envisioned for local agencies, but many other nations
with subnational, decentralized police services also expect substantial
involvement in counterterrorism by those agencies (Bayley and Weisburd 2009, p.
85). In addition to the response and recovery operations so visibly provided by
local police in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, local police are expected to be on
the lookout for likely suspects or people with useful information about
terrorism (based in part on information provided by federal agencies), to pass
potentially useful information along to federal agencies, to investigate
terrorists on their own and by collaborating with other agencies in special
multiagency Joint Terrorism Task Forces, to participate in the interrogation of
suspects and witnesses, to collaborate in the disruption of terrorist plans, to
perform risk analyses and target hardening recommendations,  [*121]  and to
mobilize the community for prevention and detection (Kelling and Bratton 2006;
Bayley and Weisburd 2009, p. 87; Greene and Herzog 2009; Maguire and King,
forthcoming). Local police are encouraged to acquire and use special
technologies to combat terrorism, to acquire special training in the use of
these technologies and intelligence gathering, and to increase security and
surveillance efforts (Lum et al. 2009).

   Given the range and diversity of changes called for by the movement toward
terrorist-oriented policing, it represents the confluence of a large number of
innovations brought to bear on local departments. Organizational focus runs the
gamut from highly technical (the application of security and surveillance
technologies) to administrative (extensive interagency collaboration and
information sharing). It is expected to alter what all police officers look for
and report in the way of suspicious persons and activities, so some of its
features are central and pervasive. Yet the need for limiting the dissemination
of sensitive information also demands isolating information to a few people,
driving certain activities to the organization's peripheral, specialized units.
Some demands of counterterrorism require radical changes in policing strategies
(giving priority to gathering intelligence over gathering and acting on criminal
evidence), but others require little or no change (making routine traffic stops
and reporting them, responding to large-scale emergencies, and implementing
various security strategies designed to deter or incapacitate terrorist
attacks). And to the extent that reformers call for local involvement in
intelligence gathering and clandestine terrorism disruption measures (called
"high policing"), one can anticipate both police and public resistance to a
method that is incompatible with the historical preference for a more visible,
transparent, and reassuring approach (Brodeur 1983; Bayley and Weisburd 2009).
Thus, even more than with community policing, we might expect to see a very
mixed pattern in the willingness of local police to adopt and implement certain
features of counterterrorism.

   Some dramatic changes have been reported in agencies that responded to the
9/11 attacks (Holden et al. 2009), but the limited evidence available suggests
that most American police agencies have been slow to adopt many of the new
structures and practices of terrorist-oriented policing. One tentative
conclusion drawn from impressionistic evidence was that in a 14-nation sample,
general policing has been least changed by the counterterrorism movement in the
United States (Bayley  [*122]  and Weisburd 2009). America's local policing
industry remains fragmented and focused on the delivery of crime control, order
maintenance, and routine service provision. Although a few (mostly) larger
departments, such as in New York City and Los Angeles, have committed
significant resources to the development of terrorism intelligence units with
full-time personnel (some even deployed overseas), the vast majority had not
done so by 2003 (Lum et al. 2009, p. 107). A recent national survey of small and
large departments found that the "on-the-ground" counterterrorism tactics and
technologies requiring the use of resources (such as surveillance and general
deterrence) were rare, as were community-based activities that might draw on
police-community relationships strengthened by community policing (Lum et al.
2009, pp. 112-22; see also Schafer, Burruss, and Giblin 2009). The most commonly
employed measures were strengthening interagency coordination and undertaking
general preparedness planning, which do little to disrupt core, routine service
delivery operations. Here federally sponsored programs figured prominently:
Joint Terrorism Task Forces, fusion centers,  n18 and preparedness exercises.
For example, 80 percent of large departments had received hazardous materials
training, 76 percent had purchased protective clothing, and 65 percent had
received terrorism-related information from the federal government. But only 57
percent had received training in intelligence gathering, and only 39 percent
used federal watch lists. Only 11 percent reported increasing the number of
personnel assigned to counterterrorism duties. And less than 10 percent reported
engaging in high-visibility security strategies, such as enforcing illegal
immigration laws, randomly searching public places, and setting up random
traffic checkpoints. Covert surveillance was even less frequently reported (Lum
et al. 2009).

   Thus, in the decade following the 9/11 attacks, local American police, even
in most large organizations, appear to have assigned counterterrorism to the
periphery of their operations, at least those parts that they are willing to
report to researchers. Why that might be the case offers an interesting contrast
to the experience with community policing. American communities appear to be
content with modest community policing reforms that do not disrupt a traditional
police role, namely, a strong service delivery orientation that developed over
[*123]  many prior decades. While local law enforcement agency leaders clearly
are concerned about the threat of terrorism, as judged by actions taken by
agencies to plan for dealing with future attacks following 9/11 (Davis et al.
2004; International Association of Chiefs of Police 2005; Bureau of Justice
Statistics 2006), there appears to be considerable ambivalence about what the
role of local law enforcement should be. Most American police leaders appear
reluctant to reallocate substantial resources used to deal with the "ordinary"
crime, disorder, and service needs of their communities. Some have expressed
concern that assigning personnel to terrorist-oriented policing inhibits
departments' capacity to engage in community policing (Kerlikowske 2004; Oliver
2004). The high-policing aspects of counterterrorist policing are neither
visible nor tangible in the ways that routine police activities are, thus
undermining a powerful source of community legitimacy and support, especially
important among the segments of society most at risk for police counterterrorist
attention (Bayley and Weisburd 2009, p. 94).

   While communities may be accepting of local police efforts to promote their
safety from terrorists and respond to terrorist-initiated emergencies, many are
not so convinced of the benefits of the high-policing strategies that federal
agencies have encouraged them to perform (Thacher 2005). Involvement in these
activities increases the risk of human rights violations that eventually surface
in the form of bad publicity and expensive lawsuits. Although public concern for
such violations might abate when fear of terrorism is high, it tends to reappear
when the crisis mentality passes. Between 1970 and 2004, Latin America, the
region most vulnerable to terror attacks, experienced more than 20 times the
number of attacks as North America, by far the least vulnerable region (LaFree
and Dugan 2009, p. 60). Of course, repeated terrorist attacks on U.S. soil,
whether foiled or completed, could alter the public's willingness to accept or
even insist on greater local police involvement in counterterrorism strategies.
But failing a sustained crisis, there simply does not appear to be sufficient
incentive for most local communities and their police leaders to resort to a
radical reorientation of their mission.

   Just because counterterrorism appears not to have significantly displaced
routine policing structures and practices of the local police, it does not mean
that new developments are insignificant. For example, the increase in intensive
interagency coordination (among local police agencies, between police and other
emergency services, between the  [*124]  police and federal law enforcement and
homeland security agencies) marks a distinct departure from a long history of
loosely coordinated interagency activity between local and federal agencies, not
infrequently fraught with misunderstanding, jealousies, suspicions, and
reluctance to collaborate fully (Geller and Morris 1992; Skogan and Frydl 2004,
p. 211). Although these challenges have not disappeared as a consequence of
heightened efforts to coordinate and collaborate (Maguire and King,
forthcoming), only a few years after 9/11, there appeared to be a growing
consensus among local, state, and federal officials that substantial progress
had been made and would continue (Davies and Plotkin 2005). Indeed, with regard
to information sharing, local law enforcement leaders have expressed a desire to
become "full partners" in information networks run by the federal government--to
find ways for street-level officers to contribute more information on a timely
basis to federal data bases; but they also want to receive more usable
information from federal sources on threats to their locales (chap. 5). And they
support an "all-crimes" approach to information sharing that includes not only
terrorist-based threats but other crimes and disorders that might threaten
communities. Thus, one predictable consequence of the movement toward involving
local police in counterterrorism efforts is an industry that is a bit less
loosely coupled, where once-impermeable information membranes between local and
federal agencies (Geller and Morris 1992) are increasingly permeable. Networks
designed for one purpose may be exploited for others, so America's complex
industry structure may be becoming more tightly connected by "information
highways" created to combat terrorism. However, we are not seeing a systemwide
centralization of policing structures to accommodate the war on terror that
several observers have associated with an increased focus on combating terror on
domestic soil (Bayley and Weisburd 2009; Feucht et al. 2009; Greene and Herzog
2009).

   Thus, 9 years after concern about the nation's vulnerability to terrorism
reached a fever pitch, and even while the threat of terrorism remains a daily
news topic, American police remain heavily focused on the same local problems,
using essentially the same structures and systems that preceded 9/11. This is
not to dismiss the peripheral changes (especially in specialist units) that have
developed, but to note that they operate largely independent from the core
policing operation. Of course, this could change if the United States were to be
subjected to  [*125]  a much greater frequency of terrorist attacks, such as
those experienced by Israel.

   VIII. Conclusion

We addressed several aspects of police organization in the twenty-first century.
The American policing industry remains highly decentralized and has strong
prospects for continuing to do so. This has many powerful implications for how
and how well American police practice their work and with what success, but it
is difficult to test propositions without meaningful cross-national comparisons
to systems less fragmented than the American case.

   Studies of the internal structure of American police confirm the persistence
of its bureaucratic character as we move into the twenty-first century, finding
little change over short time periods. However, most of this research ignores
the effects of professional structures and hence is unable to tell us how much
competing frameworks for organizational control may be developing. The need for
long-term studies of structural change and better insight into the actual change
processes has been noted.

   Some policing technologies, such as standard patrol, have changed little over
many decades, whereas recent years have observed a large number of important
changes in others, such as information technology. There are a number of
rational explanations for the persistence of standard patrol technologies in the
face of scientific evidence that discredits their effectiveness. Although the
capacity of police organizations to resist and pervert the use of new
information technologies is great in the short run, there is evidence to suggest
that profound long-term effects into the future are possible.

   There are distinct trends in who does police work, as the numbers of members
of racial minorities, women, and college-educated and better-trained personnel
continue to grow. Although there are theories that predict that these personnel
trends will have profound consequences for the practice of policing, thus far
the evidence has been modest and mixed.

   Police culture can assume several meanings. There is not much evidence
available to test the notion that policing is culturally distinct from other
occupations. Relatively few studies exist that demonstrate how police
organizational culture differs and with what effects. And  [*126]  although a
growing body of studies finds diversity in the outlook of police on a number of
dimensions, it is not yet obvious how influential that diversity is for the
actual practice of policing. Traditional scholarship has characterized the
police occupational culture as highly resistant to change, but there are many
contemporary pressures to reduce the alienation, isolation, and defensiveness
that have been used to describe it in the past: community policing and efforts
to weaken the "blue code of silence" on matters of police integrity. Less well
developed, but potentially no less consequential, is the movement to change the
dominant culture of policing from that of a craft to a science-based occupation.

   Despite the importance of external governance to the preservation of
democratic policing, this topic remains underdeveloped as an area of study. Even
many decades after the triumph of good-government reform, America's local
governments appear to exhibit considerable variation in the ways they govern
their police. Case studies have tended to focus on the role of political
officials. Largely unexamined are the roles of grassroots community
organizations and police professional associations, although there is reason to
expect that they may be having increasing influence on policies and practices of
local agencies.

   Although the experiences of police agencies with innovation surely vary with
the nature of the innovation, experience with the two "big"
innovations--community policing and terrorist-oriented policing--shows how
police organizations manage to adopt and absorb pressures for change while
minimizing threats to the stability of the core features of the organization.
This was the case for community policing, now about three decades old, and also
for terrorist-oriented policing, which is not yet a decade old.

   American police agencies today, as in the nineteenth century, are targets of
change, often from forces outside their boundaries (Bayley 2008), but we should
not underestimate the capacity of those who are members of the organization to
resist (Skogan 2008) but also to channel these pressures to change. Indeed, what
we may have witnessed in the last few decades of the twentieth century was an
increasing capacity of police leaders to appropriate and engineer reforms that
were originally powered by external pressure. Community policing,
problem-oriented policing, broken-windows policing, and pulling-levers policing
(Weisburd and Braga 2006) can all be understood in that way, whereas Compstat
and the just-emerged predictive policing are the  [*127]  progeny of the police
themselves. That does not mean that police leaders are becoming masters of the
industry's destiny, but it does suggest that in our efforts to discern and
predict the trajectory of police organization stability and change, we need to
attend closely to the inclinations and capacities of the police themselves to
shape it.

   Throughout this essay we have suggested opportunities for future research. We
do not restate suggestions about what to study here but conclude with some
recommendations on how to study police organizations. First, scholars and policy
makers would benefit from expanding the study of police organizations to include
more cross-national comparisons. It not only places the American situation in a
larger context but also provides insights into alternative ways of organizing
the delivery of policing. This sort of research is costly, and funding sources
in America have rarely supported such comparisons, perhaps because they appear
more academic than practical. Nonetheless, a recent U.S. government-funded foray
into this sort of project has yielded useful policy as well as theoretical
insights from cross-national comparisons (Weisburd et al. 2009). We encourage
the U.S. government to explore the possibility of developing a well-supported,
cross-national research and evaluation program so that developed and developing
nations can learn from each other's experiences.

   Most police researchers are hampered by their ability to track the changes in
police organizations over long time periods. At best, some can invest in
tracking a single agency, producing the occasional useful but limited case
study. But we could learn more from the history of police if there were a
systematic effort to track a large number of police organizations over long time
periods. The U.S. Department of Justice has funded a small, pilot version of
such a project, the National Police Research Platform (Rosenbaum and Hartnett
2010). The project is developing instruments and methods to study the life
course of police organizations, as well as longitudinal changes of individual
police officers and supervisors.

   Most of the research on police organizations is based on mail surveys of
large numbers of police organizations or on-site case studies of one or a few
organizations. Both are useful, but each has severe limitations. Although they
enable researchers to draw large, more or less representative samples of
American police agencies, they are limited in the validity and reliability of
the data they gather, and they also afford poor opportunities to learn much
about the structures, processes, and  [*128]  outcomes that are of greatest
interest. The case studies afford an opportunity for greater validity and
reliability of observations, but their representativeness is always
questionable, and their small number limits the capacity to compare and control
for a variety of possible influences on whatever is being studied. Two
alternatives seem valuable, but both are costly. One is to develop a consortium
of police researchers around the nation who agree to use a common set of methods
and instruments to observe key aspects of police organizations. The second is
for research funding agencies to support more midrange studies that permit
researchers to conduct in-depth on-site observation of police organizations in a
substantial number of departments. A model for this is the Police Services
Study, which in 1977 conducted on-site observation in 24 police agencies and 60
urban neighborhoods over the course of 3 months (ICPSR 2010).

   Studies of police organization are at least as valuable to policy makers as
studies that evaluate the effects of police interventions. Police strategies and
tactics are relevant only to the extent that they are implemented, and
implementation is determined in large part by the capacity of police
organizations to manage, guide, and structure the operations of their people and
organizational components (Fernandez and Rainey 2006). Those who fund rigorous
studies to test the effects of police interventions should commit as much
funding to help police learn how to implement and sustain the changes that these
innovations require.

   REFERENCES

Allen, David N., Robert P. McGowan, and Stephen D. Mastrofski. 1983. "Analytic
Reports and Computerized Information Processing in Medium and Large Police
Agencies." Computers, Environment, and Urban Systems 8(3): 175-86.
Altshuler, Alan A. 1970. Community Control. New York: Bobbs-Merrill.
Bayley, David H. 1985. Patterns of Policing: A Comparative Analysis. New
Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press.
--. 1992. "Comparative Organization of the Police in English-Speaking
Countries." In Modern Policing, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol.
15 of Crime and Justice: A Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
 [*129]  --. 2006. Changing the Guard: Developing Democratic Police Abroad.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
--. 2008. "Police Reform: Who Done It?" Policing and Society 18(1):7-17.
Bayley, David H., and Egon Bittner. 1984. "Learning the Skills of Policing." Law
and Contemporary Problems 47:35-59.
Bayley, David H., and Clifford D. Shearing. 1996. "The Future of Policing." Law
and Society Review 30(3):585-606.
Bayley, David H., and David Weisburd. 2009. "Cops and Spooks: The Role of the
Police in Counterterrorism." In To Protect and to Serve: Policing in an Age of
Terrorism, edited by David Weisburd, Thomas E. Feucht, Idit Hakimi, Lois Felson
Mock, and Simon Perry. New York: Springer.
Beck, Charlie, and Colleen McCue. 2009. "Predictive Policing: What Can We Learn
from WalMart and Amazon about Fighting Crime in a Recession?" Police Chief
(November), 18-24.
Becker, Theodore Lewis. 1973. The Impact of Supreme Court Decisions. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Bittner, Egon. 1967. "The Police on Skid-Row: A Study of Peace Keeping."
American Sociological Review 32:699-715.
--. 1970. The Functions of the Police in Modern Society. Washington, DC:
National Institute of Mental Health.
--. 1983. "Legality and Workmanship: Introduction to Control in the Police
Organization." In Control in the Police Organization, edited by Maurice Punch.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
--. 1990. "Florence Nightingale in Pursuit of Willie Sutton: A Theory of
Police." In Aspects of Police Work. Boston: Northeastern University Press.
Blau, Peter M. 1970. "A Formal Theory of Differentiation in Organizations."
American Sociological Review 35:201-18.
Blumstein, Alfred, and Joel Wallman, eds. 2006. The Crime Drop in America.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Boyne, George. 2002. "Public and Private Management: What's the Difference?"
Journal of Management Studies 39(1):97--122.
Bradley, David, Christine Nixon, and Monique Marks. 2006. "What Works, What
Doesn't, and What Looks Promising on Police Research Networks." In Fighting
Crime Together: The Challenges of Policing and Security Networks, edited by
Jenny Fleming and Jennifer Wood. Sydney: University of New South Wales Press.
Braga, Anthony A., and David Weisburd. 2006. "Problem-Oriented Policing: The
Disconnect between Principles and Practice." In Police Innovation: Contrasting
Perspectives, edited by David Weisburd and Anthony A. Braga. New York: Cambridge
University Press.
--. Forthcoming. Policing Problem Places: Crime Hot Spots and Effective
Prevention. New York: Oxford University Press.
Bratton, William J., with Peter Knobler. 1998. Turnaround: How America's Top Cop
Reversed the Crime Epidemic. New York: Random House.
Bratton, William J., and Sean W. Malinowski. 2008. "Police Performance  [*130]
Management in Practice: Taking Compstat to the Next Level." Policing: A Journal
of Policy and Practice 2(3):259--65.
Bratton, William J., John Morgan, and Sean Malinowski. 2009. "Fighting Crime in
the Information Age: The Promise of Predictive Policing." Paper presented at the
annual meeting of the American Society of Criminology, Philadelphia, November 6.

Broderick, John J. 1972. Police in a Time of Change. Morristown, NJ: General
Learning Press.
Brodeur, Jean-Paul. 1983. "High and Low Policing: Remarks about the Policing of
Political Activities." Social Problems 39(5):507-20.
Brown, Lee P., and Mary A. Wycoff. 1987. "Policing Houston: Reducing Fear and
Improving Service." Crime and Delinquency 33:71-89.
Brown, Michael K. 1981. Working the Street: Police Discretion and the Dilemmas
of Reform. New York: Russell Sage Foundation.
Buerger, Michael. 1998. "Police Training as a Pentecost: Using Tools Singularly
III-Suited to the Purpose of Reform." Police Quarterly 1:27-63.
Bureau of Justice Assistance. 2006. Fusion Center Guidelines: Developing and
Sharing Information and Intelligence in a New Era. Washington, DC: U.S.
Department of Justice.
http://www.iir.com/global/products/fusion_center_guidelines_law_enforcement.pdf.

Bureau of Justice Statistics. 2006. Law Enforcement Management and
Administrative Statistics LEMAS: 2003 Sample Survey of Law Enforcement Agencies.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice.
--. 2007. Census of State and Local Law Enforcement Agencies, 2004. Bulletin NCJ
212749. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice.
Chan, Janet. 2001. "The Technological Game: How Information Technology Is
Transforming Police Practice." Criminal Justice 1(2):139-59.
--. 2003. "Police and New Technologies." In Handbook of Policing, edited by Tim
Newburn. Portland, OR: Willan.
Chan, Janet, D. Brereton, M. Legosz, and S. Doran. 2001. E-Policing: The Impact
of Information Technology on Police Practices. Brisbane: Criminal Justice
Commission.
Cole, Bankole A. 1999. "Post-colonial Systems." In Policing across the World:
Issues for the Twenty-first Century, edited by R. I. Mawby. London: UCL Press.
Committee on Identifying the Needs of the Forensics Science Community. 2009.
Strengthening Forensic Science in the United States: A Path Forward. Washington,
DC: National Research Council.
Cordner, Gary W. 1989. "Police Agency Size and Investigative Effectiveness."
Journal of Criminal Justice 17(3):145--55.
Crank, John P. 1994. "Watchman and Community: Myth and Institutionalization in
Policing." Law and Society Review 28:325-51.
Crank, John P., and L. E. Wells. 1991. "The Effects of Size and Urbanism on
Structure among Illinois Police Departments." Justice Quarterly 8:169-82.
Crawford, Adam. 2003. "The Pattern of Policing in the UK: Policing beyond
[*131]  the Police." In Handbook of Policing, edited by Tim Newburn. Portland,
OR: Willan.
Cunningham, W. C., J. Strauchs, and C. Van Meter. 1991. Private Security:
Patterns and Trends. Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice.
Damanpour, F. 1991. "Organizational Innovation: A Meta-analysis of Effects of
Determinants and Moderators." Academy of Management Review 34: 555-90.
Davies, Heather, and Martha R. Plotkin. 2005. Protecting Your Community from
Terrorism: Strategies for Local Law Enforcement. Vol. 5, Partnerships to Promote
Homeland Security. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.
Davis, Lois M., Jack K. Riley, Greg Ridgeway, J. E. Pace, S. K. Cotton, P.
Steinberg, K. Damphousse, and B. L. Smith. 2004. When Terrorism Hits Home: How
Prepared Are State and Local Law Enforcement? Santa Monica, CA: RAND
Corporation.
De Tocqueville, Alexis. 1990. Democracy in America. 2 vols. Introduction by
Daniel Boorstin. New York: Vintage Books. (Originally published 1835.)
Dill, William R. 1958. "Environment as an Influence on Managerial Autonomy."
Administrative Science Quarterly 2:409-43.
DiMaggio, Paul J., and Walter W. Powell. 1983. "The Iron Cage Revisited:
Institutional Isomorphism and Collective Rationality in Organizational Fields."
American Sociological Review 48:147-60.
Douthit, Nathan. 1975. "August Vollmer, Berkeley's First Chief of Police, and
the Emergence of Police Professionalism." California Historical Quarterly
54(Spring):101-24.
Dukes, Richard L., Edwardo Portillos, and Molly Miles. 2009. "Models of
Satisfaction with Police Service." Policing: An International Journal of Police
Strategy and Management 32(2):297-318.
Eck, John E. 2006. "Science, Values, and Problem-Oriented Policing: Why
Problem-Oriented Policing?" In Police Innovation: Contrasting Perspectives,
edited by David Weisburd and Anthony A. Braga. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Eck, John E., and Edward Maguire. 2000. "Have Changes in Policing Reduced
Violent Crime? An Assessment of the Evidence." In The Crime Drop in America,
edited by Alfred Blumstein and Joel Wallman. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Economist. 2010. "Number-Crunchers Crunched: The Uses and Abuses of Mathematical
Models." February 13-19, 5-8.
Eisenstein, James, Roy Flemming, and Peter Nardulli. 1988. The Contours of
Justice: Communities and Their Courts. Boston: Little, Brown.
Eisenstein, James, and Herbert Jacob. 1977. Felony Justice: An Organizational
Analysis of Criminal Courts. Boston: Little, Brown.
Engel, Robin S. 2000. "The Effects of Supervisory Styles on Patrol Officer
Behavior." Police Quarterly 3(3):262-93.
--. 2001. "Supervisory Styles of Patrol Sergeants and Lieutenants." Journal of
Criminal Justice 29:341-55.
 [*132]  --. 2002. "Patrol Officer Supervision in the Community-Policing Era."
Journal of Criminal Justice 30(1):51--64.
Engel, Robin S., and Robert E. Worden. 2003. "Police Officers' Attitudes,
Behavior, and Supervisory Influences: An Analysis of Problem-Solving."
Criminology 41:131-66.
Ericson, Richard V., and Kevin D. Haggerty. 1997. Policing the Risk Society.
Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
Falcone, David N., and L. Edward Wells. 1995. "The County Sheriff as a
Distinctive Policing Modality." American Journal of Police 14(3-4):123-49.
Falcone, David N., L. Edward Wells, and Ralph A. Weisheit. 2002. "The Small-Town
Police Department." Policing: An International Journal of Police Strategies and
Management 25(2):371-84.
Fernandez, Sergio, and Hal G. Rainey. 2006. "Managing Successful Organizational
Change in the Public Sector: An Agenda for Research and Practice." Public
Administration Review 66(2):1-25.
Feucht, Thomas E., David Weisburd, Simon Perry, Lois Felson Mock, and Idit
Hakimi. 2009. "Policing, Terrorism, and Beyond." In To Protect and to Serve:
Policing in an Age of Terrorism, edited by David Weisburd, Thomas E. Feucht,
Idit Hakimi, Lois Felson Mock, and Simon Perry. New York: Springer.
Finegold, Kenneth. 1995. Experts and Politicians. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press.
Fogelson, Robert M. 1977. Big City Police. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
Forst, Brian. 2005. "Private Policing." In Encyclopedia of Law Enforcement, vol.
1, State and Local, edited by Larry E. Sullivan and Marie Simonetti Rosen.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Fung, Archon. 2001. "Accountable Autonomy: Toward Empowered Deliberation in
Chicago Schools and Policing." Politics and Society 29(1):73-103.
Fyfe, James J. 1979. "Administrative Interventions on Police Shooting
Discretion: An Empirical Examination." Journal of Criminal Justice 7:309-23.
--. 1983. Police Personnel Practices, Baseline Data Reports. Vol. 15, no. 1.
Washington, DC: International City Management Association.
Gallagher, Catherine, Edward Maguire, Stephen D. Mastrofski, and Michael Reisig.
2001. The Public Image of the Police: Final Report to the International
Association of Chiefs of Police. Manassas, VA: George Mason University,
Administration of Justice Program.
http://marcpi.jhu.edu/marcpi/Ethics/ethics_toolkit/public_image.htm.
Geller, William A., and Norval Morris. 1992. "Relations between Federal and
Local Police." In Modern Policing, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris.
Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Goldstein, Herman. 1990. Problem-Oriented Policing. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Goold, Benjamin. 2004. CCTV and Policing: Public Area Surveillance and Police
Practices in Britain. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Gould, Jon, and Stephen D. Mastrofski. 2004. "Suspect Searches: Assessing
[*133]  Police Behavior under the U.S. Constitution." Criminology and Public
Policy 3(3):315-62.
Greene, Jack R. Forthcoming. "Community Policing and Terrorism: Problems and
Prospects for Local Community Security." In Criminologists on Terrorism and
Homeland Security, edited by Brian Forst, Jack Greene, and James Lynch.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Greene, Jack R., and Sergio Herzog. 2009. "The Implications of Terrorism on the
Formal and Social Organization of Policing in the US and Israel: Some Concerns
and Opportunities." In To Protect and to Serve: Policing in an Age of Terrorism,
edited by David Weisburd, Thomas E. Feucht, Idit Hakimi, Lois Felson Mock, and
Simon Perry. New York: Springer.
Groff, Elizabeth, David Weisburd, and Greg Jones. 2008. "What Does Automated
Vehicle Locator Data Measure about Police Presence?" Paper presented at the
annual meeting of the American Society of Criminology, St. Louis Adam's Mark,
St. Louis, November 12. http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p269426_index.html.
Guyot, Dorothy. 1979. "Bending Granite: Attempts to Change the Rank Structure of
American Police Departments." Journal of Police Science and Administration
7(3):253-84.
Hage, Jerald. 1980. Theories of Organizations. New York: Wiley.
Haggerty, Kevin D., and Richard V. Ericson. 1999. "The Militarization of
Policing in the Information Age." Journal of Political and Military Sociology
27(2):233-55.
Harcourt, Bernard E. 2007. Against Prediction: Profiling, Policing, and
Punishing in an Actuarial Age. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Hasenfeld, Yeheskel, and Richard A. English. 1974. "Human Service Organizations:
A Conceptual Overview." In Human Service Organizations: A Book of Readings,
edited by Yeheskel Hasenfeld and Richard A. English. Ann Arbor: University of
Michigan Press.
Hassell, Kimberly D., Jihong "Solomon" Zhao, and Edward R. Maguire. 2003.
"Structural Arrangements in Large Municipal Police Organizations: Revisiting
Wilson's Theory of Local Political Culture." Policing: An International Journal
of Police Strategies and Management 26(2):231--50.
Hickman, Matthew J., and Brian A. Reaves. 2006. Local Police Departments, 2003.
Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Hinkle, Joshua, and David Weisburd. 2008. "The Irony of Broken Windows Policing:
A Micro-Place Study of the Relationship between Disorder, Focused Police
Crackdowns, and Fear of Crime." Journal of Criminal Justice 36:503-12.
Holden, Gwen, Gerard Murphy, Corina Sole Brito, and Joshua Ederheimer. 2009.
Learning from 9/11: Organizational Change in the New York City and Arlington
County, VA, Police Departments. NCJ 2273456. Washington, DC: National Institute
of Justice.
ICPSR (Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research). 2010.
"Description and Citation: Study no. 8605--Police Services Study, Phase II.
[*134]  1977: Rochester, St. Louis, and St. Petersburg."
http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/icpsrweb/ICPSR/studies/8605?q=Police+Services+Study.
International Association of Chiefs of Police. 2005. Post 9-11 Policing: The
Crime-Control-Homeland Security Paradigm--Taking Command of New Realities.
Alexandria, VA: International Association of Chiefs of Police.
Jones, Trevor, and Timothy Newburn. 1998. Private Security and Public Policing.
Oxford: Clarendon.
Jones, Trevor, Tim Newburn, and David J. Smith. 1994. "Policing and the Idea of
Democracy." British Journal of Criminology 36(2):182-98.
Kelling, George L. 1981. Conclusions: The Newark Foot Patrol Experiment.
Washington, DC: Police Foundation.
--. 1999. "Broken Windows" and Police Discretion. NCJ 178259. Washington, DC:
National Institute of Justice. http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffilesl/nij/ 178259.pdf.
Kelling, George L., and William J. Bratton. 2006. Policing Terrorism. New York:
Manhattan Institute. http://www.manhattan-institute.org/html/cb_43.htm.
Kelling, George L., and Mark H. Moore. 1988. "From Political to Reform to
Community: The Evolving Strategy of Police." In Community Policing: Rhetoric or
Reality, edited by Jack R. Greene and Stephen D. Mastrofski. New York: Praeger.
Kelling, George L., Tony Pate, Duane Dieckman, and Charles E. Brown. 1974. The
Kansas City Preventive Patrol Experiment: A Summary Report. Washington, DC:
Police Foundation.
Kerlikowske, Gil. 2004. "The End of Community Policing: Remembering the Lessons
Learned." FBI Bulletin 73(4):6-10.
King, William R. 2000. "Measuring Police Innovation: Issues and Measurement."
Policing: An International Journal of Police Strategies and Management
23(3):303-17.
Klinger, David A. 2004. "Environment and Organization: Reviving a Perspective on
the Police." Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science
593(May):119-36.
Klockars, Carl B. 1985. The Idea of Police. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.
--. 1988. "The Rhetoric of Community Policing." In Community Policing: Rhetoric
or Reality, edited by Jack R. Greene and Stephen D. Mastrofski. New York:
Praeger.
--. 1995. "A Theory of Excessive Force and Its Control." In And Justice for All:
Understanding and Controlling Police Abuse of Force, edited by William A. Geller
and Hans Toch. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.
Klockars, Carl B., Sanja Kutnjak Ivkovic, and Maria R. Haberfeld. 2004. The
Contours of Police Integrity. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
--. 2006. Enhancing Police Integrity. Dordrecht, Netherlands: Springer.
Klockars, Carl B., Sanja Kutnjak Ivkovich, William E. Harver, and Maria R.
Haberfeld. 2000. The Measurement of Police Integrity. Research in Brief.
Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice.
 [*135]  Krislov, Samuel, and David H. Rosenbloom. 1981. Representative
Bureaucracy and the American Political System. New York: Praeger.
LaFree, Gary, and Laura Dugan. 2009. "Tracking Global Terrorism Trends,
1970-2004." In To Protect and to Serve: Policing in an Age of Terrorism, edited
by David Weisburd, Thomas E. Feucht, Idit Hakimi, Lois Felson Mock, and Simon
Perry. New York: Springer.
Langworthy, Robert H. 1985. "Police Department Size and Agency Structure."
Journal of Criminal Justice 13:15-27.
--. 1986. The Structure of Police Organizations. Westport, CT: Praeger.
Langworthy, Robert H., and Michael J. Hindelang. 1983. "Effects of Police Agency
Size on the Use of Police Employees: A Reexamination of Ostrom, Parks, and
Whitaker." Police Studies 5:11-19.
Larson, G. C., and J. W. Simon. 1978. St. Louis MO--Police AVM Automatic Vehicle
Monitoring System--Phase 2 City-wide Implementation, Evaluation. NCJ 064852.
Washington, DC: National Institute of Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice.
Liederbach, John. 2008. "Wilson Redux: Another Look at Varieties of Police
Behavior." Police Quarterly 11(4):447-67.
Lim, Hong-Hai. 2006. "Representative Bureaucracy: Rethinking Substantive Effects
and Active Representation." Public Administration Review 66(March/ April):
193-204.
Loader, Ian. 1999. "Consumer Culture and the Commodification of Policing and
Security." Sociology 33(2):373-92.
Lovrich, Nicholas, Jr. 1985. "Scale and Performance in Governmental Operations:
An Empirical Assessment of Public Choice Prescriptions." Public Administration
Quarterly 9(Summer):163-95.
Lum, Cynthia. 2009. Translating Police Research into Practice. Ideas in American
Policing. Washington, DC: Police Foundation
Lum, Cynthia, Maria Maki Haberfeld, George Fachner, and Charles Lieberman. 2009.
"Police Activities to Counter Terrorism: What We Know and What We Need to Know."
In To Protect and to Serve: Policing in an Age of Terrorism, edited by David
Weisburd, Thomas E. Feucht, Idit Hakimi, Lois Felson Mock, and Simon Perry. New
York: Springer.
Lyons, William. 1999. The Politics of Community Policing: Rearranging the Power
to Punish. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
Maguire, Edward R. 1997. "Structural Change in Large Municipal Police
Organizations during the Community Policing Era." Justice Quarterly 14(3):
547-76.
--. 2003. Organizational Structure in American Police Agencies: Context,
Complexity, and Control. Albany: State University of New York Press.
Maguire, Edward R., and William R. King. 2004. "Trends in the Policing
Industry." Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science
593:15-41.
--. 2007. "The Changing Landscape of American Police Organizations." In Policing
2020: Exploring the Future of Crime, Communities, and Policing,  [*136]  edited
by Joseph A. Schafer. Washington, DC: Federal Bureau of Investigation.
--. Forthcoming. "Federal-Local Coordination in Homeland Security." In
Criminologists on Terrorism and Homeland Security, edited by Brian Forst, Jack
Greene, and James Lynch. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Maguire, Edward R., and Stephen D. Mastrofski. 2000. "Patterns of Community
Policing in the United States." Police Quarterly 3(1):4-45.
Maguire, Edward R., and Rebecca Schulte-Murray. 2001. "Issues and Patterns in
the Comparative International Study of Police Strength." International Journal
of Comparative Sociology 42(1--2):75--100.
Maguire, Edward R., Yeunhee Shin, Jihong "Solomon" Zhao, and Kimberly D.
Hassell. 2003. "Structural Change in Large Police Agencies during the 1990s."
Policing: An International Journal of Police Strategies and Management
26(2):251-75.
Maguire, Edward R., Jeffrey B. Snipes, Craig D. Uchida, and Margaret Townsend.
1998. "Counting Cops: Estimating the Number of Police Departments and Police
Officers in the USA." Policing: An International Journal of Police Strategies
and Management 21(1):97--120.
Manning, Peter K. 1992. "Information Technologies and the Police." In Modern
Policing, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and
Justice: A Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
--. 2003. Policing Contingencies. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
--. 2005. "Information Technologies." In Encyclopedia of Law Enforcement, vol.
1, edited by Larry E. Sullivan and Marie Simonetti. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
--. 2006. "The United States of America." In Plural Policing: A Comparative
Perspective, edited by Trevor Jones and Tim Newburn. London: Routledge.
Mastrofski, Stephen D. 1981. "Reforming Police: The Impact of Patrol Assignment
Patterns on Officer Behavior in Urban Residential Neighborhoods." PhD
dissertation, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
--. 1988. "Varieties of Police Governance in Metropolitan America." Politics and
Policy 8:12-31.
--. 1989. "Police Agency Consolidation: Lessons from a Case Study." In Police
Management Today, edited by James J. Fyfe. Washington, DC: International City
Management Association.
--. 1998. "Community Policing and Police Organization Structure." In Community
Policing and the Evaluation of Police Service Delivery, edited by Jean-Paul
Brodeur. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
--. 1999. "Policing for People." In Ideas in American Policing. Washington, DC:
Police Foundation.
--. 2002. "The Romance of Police Leadership." In Theoretical Advances in
Criminology: Crime and Social Organization, edited by Elin Waring, David
Weisburd, and Lawrence W. Sherman. New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction.
--. 2003. "Personnel and Agency Performance Appraisal." In Local  [*137]
Government Police Management, edited by William A. Geller. Washington, DC:
International City Management Association.
--. 2004. "Controlling Street-Level Police Discretion." Annals of the American
Academy of Political and Social Science 593(May): 100-118.
--. 2005a. "Education of Police." In Encyclopedia of Law Enforcement, vol. 1,
State and Local, edited by Larry E. Sullivan and Marie Simonetti Rosen. Thousand
Oaks, CA: Sage.
--. 2005b. "Patrol Work." In Encyclopedia of Law Enforcement, vol. 1, State and
Local, edited by Larry E. Sullivan and Marie Simonetti Rosen. Thousand Oaks, CA:
Sage.
--. 2006a. "Community Policing: A Skeptical View." In Police Innovation:
Contrasting Perspectives, edited by David Weisburd and Anthony A. Braga. New
York: Cambridge University Press.
--. 2006b. "Police Organization and Management Issues for the Next Decade."
Report to the National Institute of Justice. http://www.ncjrs.gov/
pdffilesl/nij/grants/218584.pdf.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., and Cynthia Lum. 2008. "Meeting the Challenges of Police
Governance in Trinidad and Tobago." Policing: A Journal of Policy and Practice
2(4):481-96. doi:10.1093/police/pan051.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., and R. Richard Ritti. 1996. "Police Training and the
Effects of Organization on Drunk Driving Enforcement." Justice Quarterly
13:291-320.
--. 2000. "Making Sense of Community Policing: A Theoretical Perspective."
Police Practice and Research Journal 1(2):183-210.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., R. Richard Ritti, and Debra Hoffmaster. 1987.
"Organizational Determinants of Police Discretion: The Case of
Drinking-Driving." Journal of Criminal Justice 15:387-402.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., and Craig D. Uchida. 1993. "Transforming the Police."
Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 30:330-58.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., David Weisburd, and Anthony A. Braga. 2009. "Rethinking
Policing: The Policy Implications of Hot Spots of Crime." In Contemporary Issues
in Criminal Justice Policy: Policy Proposals from the American Society of
Criminology Conference, edited by Todd R. Clear, Natasha A. Frost, and J. D.
Freilich. Florence, KY: Cengage Learning.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., James J. Willis, and Tammy R. Kochel. 2007. "The
Challenges of Implementing Community Policing in the United States." Policing: A
Journal of Policy and Practice 1(2):223-34.
Mastrofski, Stephen D., James J. Willis, and Jeffrey B. Snipes. 2002. "Styles of
Patrol in a Community Policing Context." In The Move to Community Policing:
Making Change Happen, edited by Merry Morash and J. K. Ford. Thousand Oaks, CA:
Sage.
Mawby, Robert, ed. 1999. Policing across the World: Issues for the Twenty-first
Century. London: Routledge.
McDavid, James. 1977. "The Effects of Interjurisdictional Cooperation on Police
Performance in the St. Louis Metropolitan Area." Publius 7(2):3-30.
Meehan, Albert J., and Michael Ponder. 2002. "Race and Place: The Ecology
[*138]  of Racial Profiling African American Motorists." Justice Quarterly
19(3): 401-32.
Moore, Mark, and Anthony Braga. 2004. "Police Performance Measurement: A
Normative Framework." Criminal Justice Ethics 23:3-19.
Muir, William Ker, Jr. 1977. Police: Streetcorner Politicians. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
--. 2008. "Police and Social Democracy." Policing and Society 18(1):18--22.
Murphy, Patrick, and Thomas Plate. 1977. Commissioner: A View from the Top. New
York: Simon & Schuster.
National Institute of Justice. 2009. "Solicitation: Predictive Policing Analytic
and Evaluation Research Support." Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice.
http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/sl000879.pdf.
Noguchi, Sharon. 2009. "San Jose Police Test Head-Mounted Cameras for Officers."
Mercury News, December 21.
http://www.infowars.com/san-jose-police-test-head-mounted-cameras-for-officers/.

Nunn, Sam, and Kenna Quinet. 2002. "Evaluating the Effects of Information
Technology on Problem-Oriented Policing: If It Doesn't Fit, Must We Quit?"
Evaluation Review 26(1):81-108.
Oliver, W. 2004. "The Homeland Security Juggernaut: The End of the Community
Policing Era?" Crime and Justice International 20:4-11.
O'Shea, Timothy C., and Keith Nicholls. 2003. "Police Crime Analysis: A Survey
of US Police Departments with 100 or More Sworn Personnel." Police Practice and
Research 4(3):233-50.
Ostrom, Elinor, Roger B. Parks, and Gordon P. Whitaker. 1978. Patterns of
Metropolitan Policing. Cambridge, MA: Ballinger.
Ostrom, Elinor, and Dennis C. Smith. 1976. "On the Fate of 'Lilliputs' in
Metropolitan Policing." Public Administration Review 36(2):192-200.
Ostrom, Elinor, Gordon P. Whitaker, and Roger B. Parks. 1978. "Policing: Is
There a System?" In The Policy Cycle, edited by Judith May and Aaron Wildavsky.
New York: Russell Sage Foundation.
Ostrom, Vincent, and Elinor Ostrom. 1965. "A Behavioral Approach to the Study of
Intergovernmental Relations." Annals of the American Academy of Political and
Social Science 359(May): 137-46.
Ostrom, Vincent, Charles M. Tiebout, and Robert Warren. 1961. "The Organization
of Governments in Metropolitan Areas." American Political Science Review
55:831-42.
Paoline, Eugene A., III. 2001. Rethinking Police Culture: Officers' Occupational
Attitudes. New York: LFB Scholarly Publishing.
Parks, Roger B. 2009. "Metropolitan Organization and Police." In The Practice of
Constitutional Development, edited by Filippo Sabetti, Barbara Allen, and Mark
Sproule-Jones. Lanham, MD: Lexington.
Parks, Roger B., Stephen D. Mastrofski, Christina DeJong, and M. Kevin Gray.
1999. "How Officers Spend Their Time with the Community." Justice Quarterly
16:483-518.
Perlman, Ellen. 2008. "Policing by the Odds." Governing (December 1).
http://www.governing.com/article/policing-odds.
 [*139]  Podsakoff, Philip M., Scott B. MacKenzie, Jeong-Yeon Lee, and Nathan P.
Podsakoff. 2003. "Common Method Biases in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review
of the Literature and Recommended Remedies." Journal of Applied Psychology
88(5):879-903.
Police Executive Research Forum. 2006. Police Chief Concerns: A Gathering
Storm--Violent Crime in America. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research
Forum.
President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice. 1967.
The Challenge of Crime in a Free Society. Washington, DC: U.S. Government
Printing Office.
Ratcliffe, Jerry. 2006. Video Surveillance of Public Places. Washington, DC:
Office of Community Oriented Policing Services.
Reaves, Brian A. 2007. Census of State and Local Law Enforcement Agencies, 2004.
Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Reaves, Brian A., and Matthew J. Hickman. 2002. Police Departments in Large
Cities, 1990-2000. Washington, DC: Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Reisig, Michael D. In this volume. "Community and Problem-Oriented Policing."
Reiss, Albert J., Jr. 1971. The Police and the Public. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press.
--. 1988. Private Employment of Public Police. Washington, DC: National
Institute of Justice.
--. 1992. "Police Organization in the Twentieth Century." In Modern Policing,
edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Reiss, Albert J., Jr., and David J. Bordua. 1967. "Environment and Organization:
A Perspective on the Police." In The Police: Six Sociological Essays, edited by
David J. Bordua. New York: Wiley.
Reuss-Ianni, Elizabeth, and Francis A. J. Ianni. 1983. "Street Cops and
Management Cops: The Two Cultures of Policing." In Control in the Police
Organization, edited by Maurice Punch. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Rogers, Everett. 2003. Diffusion of Innovations. 5th ed. New York: Free Press.
Rosenbaum, Dennis P., and Susan Hartnett. 2010. The National Police Research
Platform. Chicago: Center for Research in Law and Justice, University of
Illinois at Chicago.
Rosenbaum, Dennis P., and Deanna L. Wilkinson. 2004. "Can Police Adapt? Tracking
the Effects of Organizational Reform over Six Years." In Community Policing: Can
It Work? edited by Wesley G. Skogan. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
Roth, Jeffrey A., ed. 2000. National Evaluation of the COPS Program--Title I of
the 1994 Crime Act. Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice.
Roth, Jeffrey A., Jan Roehl, and Calvin C. Johnson. 2004. "Trends in Community
Policing." In Community Policing: Can It Work? edited by Wesley G. Skogan.
Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
Rubinstein, Jonathan. 1973. City Police. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.
 [*140]  Schafer, Joseph A., George W. Burruss Jr., and Matthew J. Giblin. 2009.
"Measuring Homeland Security Innovation in Small Municipal Agencies: Policing in
a Post-9/11 World." Police Quarterly 12(3):263-88.
Scheider, Matthew C., Tawnadra Rowell, and Veh Bezdikian. 2003. "The Impact of
Citizen Perceptions of Community Policing on Fear of Crime: Findings from 12
Cities." Police Quarterly 6(4):363-86.
Scott, W. Richard. 1998. Organizations: Rational, Natural, and Open Systems. 4th
ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Shearing, Clifford D. 1992. "The Relation between Public and Private Policing."
In Modern Policing, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime
and Justice: A Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Shearing, Clifford D., and Philip C. Stenning. 1981. "Modern Private Security:
Its Growth and Implications." In Crime and Justice: An Annual Review of
Research, vol. 3, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Sherman, Lawrence W. 1978. Scandal and Reform: Controlling Police Corruption.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
--. 1983. "Reducing Police Gun Use: Critical Events, Administrative Policy, and
Organizational Change." In Control in the Police Organization, edited by Maurice
Punch. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
--. 1984. "Experiments in Police Discretion: Scientific Boon or Dangerous
Knowledge?" Law and Contemporary Problems 47:61-81.
--. 1998. Evidence-Based Policing. Ideas in American Policing. Washington, DC:
Police Foundation.
Sherman, Lawrence, Denise Gottfredson, Doris Mackenzie, John Eck, Peter Reuter,
and Shawn Bushway. 1997. Preventing Crime: What Works, What Doesn't, What's
Promising. Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice, U.S. Department of
Justice.
Sklansky, David Alan. 2006. "Not Your Father's Police Department: Making Sense
of the New Demographics of Law Enforcement." Journal of Criminal Law and
Criminology 96(3):1209-44.
--. 2008. Democracy and the Police. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Skogan, Wesley G. 2005. "Citizen Satisfaction with Police Encounters." Police
Quarterly 8(3):298-301.
--. 2006a. "Asymmetry in the Impact of Encounters with Police." Policing and
Society 16(2):99-126.
--. 2006b. Police and Community in Chicago: A Tale of Three Cities. New York:
Oxford University Press.
--. 2006c. "The Promise of Community Policing." In Police Innovation:
Contrasting Perspectives, edited by David Weisburd and Anthony A. Braga. New
York: Cambridge University Press.
--. 2008. "Why Reforms Fail." Policing and Society 18(1):23-34.
Skogan, Wesley G., and Kathleen Frydl, eds. 2004. Fairness and Effectiveness in
Policing: The Evidence. Washington, DC: National Academies Press.
 [*141]  Skolnick, Jerome H. 1966. Justice without Trial: Law Enforcement in
Democratic Society. New York: Wiley.
--. 2002. "Corruption and the Blue Code of Silence." Police Practice and
Research 3:7-19.
Skolnick, Jerome H., and David H. Bayley. 1986. The New Blue Line: Police
Innovation in Six American Cities. New York: Free Press.
Smith, Brad W., Kenneth J. Novak, and James Frank. 2001. "Community Policing and
the Work Routines of Street-Level Officers." Criminal Justice Review
26(1):17-37.
Smith, Douglas. 1984. "The Organizational Context of Legal Control." Criminology
22:19-38.
Sparrow, Malcolm K., Mark H. Moore, and David M. Kennedy. 1990. Beyond 911: A
New Era for Policing. New York: Basic Books.
Spelman, William G., and Dale K. Brown. 1981. Calling the Police: A Replication
of the Citizen Reporting Component of the Kansas City Response Time Analysis.
Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.
Stucky, Thomas D. 2005. Urban Politics, Crime Rates, and Police Strength. New
York: LFB Scholarly Publishing.
Sutton, L. Paul. 1986. "The Fourth Amendment in Action: An Empirical View of the
Search Warrant Process." Criminal Law Bulletin 22(5):405-29.
Tennenbaum, Abraham N. 1994. "The Influence of the Garner Decision on Police Use
of Deadly Force." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 85(1): 241-60.
Teodoro, Manuel P. 2009. "Ambition and Professionalism: Executive Mobility and
Law Enforcement Agency Accreditation." Unpublished manuscript. Hamilton, NY:
Colgate University, Department of Political Science.
Terrill, William, and Stephen D. Mastrofski. 2004. "Toward a Better
Understanding of Police Use of Nonlethal Force." In Police Integrity and Ethics,
edited by Alex Piquero, Matthew Hickman, and Jack R. Greene. Belmont, CA:
Wadsworth.
Thacher, David. 2001. "Equity and Community Policing: A New View of Community
Partnerships." Criminal Justice Ethics 20(Winter/Spring):3-16.
--. 2005. "The Local Role in Homeland Security." Law and Society Review
39(3):635-76.
--. 2008. "Research for the Front Lines." Policing and Society 18(1):46-59.
Thompson, James D. 1967. Organizations in Action: Social Science Bases of
Administrative Theory. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Torres, Sam, and Ronald E. Vogel. 2001. "Pre and Post-test Differences between
Vietnamese and Latino Residents Involved in a Community Policing Experiment:
Reducing Fear of Crime and Improving Attitudes toward the Police." Policing: An
International Journal of Police Strategies and Management 24:40-55.
Tully, Edward J. 2002. "Regionalization or Consolidation of Law Enforcement
Services in the United States." National Executive Institute Associates, Major
Chiefs Association and Major County Sheriff's Association. http://www
.neiassociates.org/regionalization.htm.
 [*142]  Tyler, Tom R., Patrick E. Callahan, and Jeffrey Frost. 2007. "Armed,
and Dangerous? Motivating Rule Adherence among Agents of Social Control." Law
and Society Review 41:457-92.
Tyler, Tom R., and Yuen J. Huo. 2002. Trust in the Law: Encouraging Public
Cooperation with the Police and Courts. New York: Russell Sage Foundation.
Uchida, Craig D., and Timothy S. Bynum. 1991. "Search Warrants, Motions to
Suppress and 'Lost Cases': The Effects of the Exclusionary Rule in Seven
Jurisdictions." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 81(4):1034-66.
Van Maanen, John. 1983. "The Boss: First-Line Supervision in an American Police
Agency." In Control in the Police Organization, edited by Maurice Punch.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
--. 1984. "Making Rank: Becoming an American Police Sergeant." Urban Life
13:155-76.
Walker, Samuel. 1977. A Critical History of Police Reform: The Emergence of
Professionalism. Lexington, MA: Heath.
Walker, Samuel, and Morgan Macdonald. 2009. "An Alternative Remedy for Police
Misconduct: A Model State Pattern or Practice Statute." Civil Rights Law Journal
19(3):479-552.
Wambaugh, Joseph. 1973. The Blue Knight. Boston: Little, Brown.
Weber, Max. 1978. Economy and Society. 2 vols. Edited by Guenther Roth and Claus
Wittich. Berkeley: University of California Press. (Originally published 1922.)
Weisburd, David, and Anthony A. Braga. 2006. "Introduction: Understanding Police
Innovation." In Police Innovation: Contrasting Perspectives, edited by David
Weisburd and Anthony A. Braga. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Weisburd, David, and John E. Eck. 2004. "What Can Police Do to Reduce Crime,
Disorder, and Fear?" Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
Science 593(May):42-65.
Weisburd, David, Thomas E. Feucht, Idit Hakimi, Lois Felson Mock, and Simon
Perry, eds. 2009. To Protect and to Serve: Policing in an Age of Terrorism. New
York: Springer.
Weisburd, David, Rosann Greenspan, Edwin E. Hamilton, Kellie A. Bryant, and
Hubert Williams. 2001. The Abuse of Police Authority: A National Study of Police
Officers' Attitudes. Washington, DC: Police Foundation.
Weisburd, David, and Cynthia Lum. 2005. "The Diffusion of Computerized Crime
Mapping in Policing: Linking Research and Practice." Police Practice and
Research 6(5):419-34.
Weisburd, David, Stephen D. Mastrofski, Anne-Marie McNally, Rosann Greenspan,
and James J. Willis. 2003. "Reforming to Preserve: Compstat and Strategic
Problem-Solving in American Policing." Criminology and Public Policy 2:421-56.
Weisburd, David, and Peter Neyroud. Forthcoming. "Police Science: Toward a New
Paradigm." In New Perspectives in Policing. Washington, DC: National Institute
of Justice, U.S. Department of Justice; Cambridge, MA: Program  [*143]  in
Criminal Justice Policy and Management, John F. Kennedy School of Government,
Harvard University.
Weisheit, Ralph A. 2005. "Rural Police." In Encyclopedia of Law Enforcement,
vol. 1, State and Local, edited by Larry E. Sullivan and Marie Simonetti Rosen.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Weisheit, Ralph A., and Carl W. Hawkins Jr. 1997. "The State of Community
Policing in Small Towns and Rural Areas." In Community Policing in a Rural
Setting, edited by Quint C. Thurman and Edmund F. McGarrell. Cincinnati:
Anderson Publishing.
Weisheit, Ralph A., and L. E. Wells. 1999. Crime and Policing in Rural and
Small-Town America. 2nd ed. Prospect Heights, IL: Waveland.
Weiss, Alexander. 1997. "The Communication of Innovation in American Policing."
Policing: An International Journal of Police Strategies and Management
29(2):292-310.
Weitzer, Ronald, and Steven A. Tuch. 2006. Race and Policing in America:
Conflict and Reform New York: Cambridge University Press.
Werder, Edward J. 1996. "The Great Sergeant!" National Executive Institute
Associates, Major Cities Chiefs Association and Major County Sheriff's
Association. http://www.neiassociates.org/sergeant.htm.
Westley, William A. 1970. Violence and the Police: A Sociological Study of Law,
Custom, and Morality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Williams, Hubert, and Patrick Murphy. 1990. "Evolving Strategy of Police: A
Minority View." Report to the National Institute of Justice. Washington, DC:
National Institute of Justice.
Willis, James, Stephen D. Mastrofski, and Tammy Kochel. 2010. "Recommendations
for Integrating Compstat and Community Policing." Policing: A Journal of Policy
and Practice 4(2):182-93.
Willis, James J., Stephen D. Mastrofski, and David Weisburd. 2007. "Making Sense
of Compstat: A Theory-Based Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police
Departments." Law and Society Review 41:147-88.
Wilson, James Q. 1968. Varieties of Police Behavior: The Management of Law and
Order in Eight Communities. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
--. 1989. Bureaucracy: What Government Agencies Do and Why They Do It. New York:
Basic Books.
Wilson, Jeremy M. 2003. "Measurement and Association in the Structure of
Municipal Police Organizations." Policing: An International Journal of Police
Strategies and Management 26(2):276-97.
--. 2006. Community Policing in America. New York: Routledge.
Wolfe, Richard A. 1994. "Organizational Innovation: Review, Critique and
Suggested Research Directions." Journal of Management Studies 31(3): 405-31.
Wood, Jennifer, and David Bradley. 2009. "Embedding Partnership Policing: What
We've Learned from the Nexus Project." Police Practice and Research 10:133-44.
Wood, Richard L., Mariah Davis, and Amelia Rouse. 2004. "Diving into Quicksand:
Program Implementation and Police Subcultures." In  [*144]  Community Policing:
Can It Work? edited by Wesley G. Skogan. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
Wycoff, Mary Ann. 1994. "Community Policing Strategies." Unpublished report.
Washington, DC: Police Foundation.
Zaltman, Gerald, Robert Duncan, and Jonny Holbek. 1973. Innovations and
Organizations. New York: Wiley-Interscience.
Zhao, Jihong. 1996. Why Police Organizations Change: A Study of
Community-Oriented Policing. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.
Zhao, Jihong "Solomon," Ni He, and Nicholas P. Lovrich. 2006. "Pursuing Gender
Diversity in Police Organizations in the 1990s: A Longitudinal Analysis of
Factors Associated with the Hiring of Female Officers." Police Quarterly
9:463-85.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Computer & Internet LawCopyright ProtectionCivil Infringement ActionsOwner
RightsAdaptationCopyright LawCriminal OffensesCriminal InfringementJurisdiction
& VenueGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsPolice Power

FOOTNOTES:





n1  Although small agencies may not match their larger counterparts in material
incentives and training, they have been forced to upgrade minimum hiring and
training requirements by state mandates that proliferated in the latter part of
the twentieth century, thus closing some of the professional gap that may have
previously existed in the formal indicators of professional quality.





n2  Some research that actually focuses on the effects of variation in industry
structure across metropolitan areas finds mixed effects (Parks 2009, p. 196).
Greater multiplicity of patrol service providers in a metro area is associated
with greater patrol deployment, but greater multiplicity in criminal
investigations is associated with lower crime clearance levels.





n3  Between the 1996 and 2004 census of law enforcement agencies, the number of
full-time sworn employees in local police and sheriffs' departments grew by
58,000, representing an impressive increase of over 10 percent in an 8-year time
span (Reaves 2007). This trend in overall growth is consistent with that in
other nations (Maguire and Schulte-Murray 2001).





n4  Here we draw on Bayley's (1985, p. 54) careful distinction of two dimensions
of policing structure: the number of commands (agencies) in a system and the
extent to which operational direction is commanded from a single center of
control. Israel represents a highly unified system (one command and one center
of control), whereas the United States represents a highly fragmented system
with many thousand independent commands that are neither hierarchically
organized nor coordinated (as in France; p. 59).





n5  Bureaucracy and bureaucratization can have a variety of meanings. The
concept is multidimensional, and its elements are not necessarily tightly linked
(Wilson 1989).





n6  And sometimes the proxy measures available, even when accurately reported,
are of questionable validity for the constructs they are intended to represent,
such as using the number of beats or officers on patrol as an indicator of
spatial dispersion. Given the vicissitudes of police staffing and dispatching
habits, the designation of beat boundaries is not necessarily a reliable
indicator of how patrol officers are actually dispersed (Mas-trofski 1981;
Skogan 2006b, p. 61).





n7  A survey of a sample of departments with 100 or more sworn officers found
that in 2001 about two in five local agencies claimed to have developed
computerized crime mapping to support hot-spots policing (Weisburd and Lum 2005,
p. 428), but the nature and extent of hot-spots policing implementation were not
measured.





n8  Greater police visibility often appears to have little or no effect on
criminal offending; some studies indicate that it reduces fear of crime, but
others indicate that it may increase it, especially if the changes are
substantial, targeted, and unexpected by the public (Kelling 1981; Brown and
Wycoff 1987; Torres and Vogel 2001; Scheider, Rowell, and Bezdikian 2003; Hinkle
and Weisburd 2008).





n9  Although CCTV can also be labor intensive (monitoring the transmitted
images), these tasks can be performed by civilians at remote locations, and new
technologies are being developed that enable machines to digitally monitor and
detect actionable events (Ratcliffe 2006).





n10  A recent nationally representative sample of police officers showed that 33
percent held a 4-year college degree, 19 percent held a 2-year degree, and an
additional 33 percent had taken at least some college, leaving those with only a
high school diploma or less in the distinct minority (Weisburd et al. 2001, p.
11).





n11  A review of minority staffing levels in large departments in 2000 shows
that it exceeded 60 percent in only two of 10 departments, but that four had
achieved 40-50 percent (Sklansky 2006, p. 1214).





n12  Paoline (2001) found fairly high consensus among officers in two
departments favoring the police role as law enforcement and aggressive
patrolling tactics, but he found significant differences among officers on many
other dimensions.





n13  Having a culture of high integrity, one that is intolerant of corrupt and
abusive practices, is not synonymous with having little or no corruption, but is
rather one that is thought to bring to bear what an organization can do to
prevent corrupt and abusive practices (Klockars, Ivkovic, and Haberfeld 2006).





n14  They typically consider the elective or appointive nature of the
government's chief executive, district vs. at-large elections, and whether
elections are partisan or nonpartisan (Stucky 2005, p. 39).





n15  Two 2004 reviews of the evaluation research on community policing found a
lack of strong support for its crime control effectiveness (Skogan and Frydl
2004, p. 232; Weisburd and Eck 2004, p. 52), but a very recent review that
included several newer studies concluded that although the evidence is mixed,
the weight of the body of research "indicates that community and
problem-oriented policing can reduce crime and disorder" (Reisig, in this
volume).





n16  By 1998, on average, large agencies reported that they had implemented 80
percent of eight partnership-building tactics (Roth, Roehl, and Johnson 2004).
By 2006 a national survey of departments with 100 or more officers found that 97
percent reported having adopted community policing; 59 percent reported its
scope as major, 32 percent as moderate, and 6 percent as minor (Mastrofski,
Willis, and Kochel 2007).





n17  Some police leaders and professional associations have argued that in the
midst of a nationally declining crime trend, some communities are experiencing
alarming increases in violent crime (Police Executive Research Forum 2006), but
thus far this has not proven an effective cause for mobilizing a large influx in
(especially federal) resources that advocates argue are needed to counter these
selective trends.





n18  Fusion centers facilitate the assembly, analysis, and sharing of
information among state and federal jurisdictions, as well as involving private
organizations (Bureau of Justice Assistance 2006).


                                2 of 3 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 27, 2010 Friday

SOCIAL STUDIES;
A DAILY MISCELLANY OF INFORMATION

BYLINE: MICHAEL KESTERTON

SECTION: GLOBE LIFE; Facts & Arguments; Pg. L6

LENGTH: 827 words


mkesterton@globeandmail.com

Can be easy to forget

"The central lesson of genealogy is both banal and profound," Buzzy Jackson
writes for The Boston Globe. "We are all related. The human race is a sea of
distant cousins separated only by geography and circumstance."

Predictive policing

"The future of crime fighting begins with a story about strawberry Pop-Tarts,
bad weather and Wal-Mart," Joel Rubin writes for the Los Angeles Times. "With a
hurricane bearing down on the Florida coast several years ago, the retail giant
sent supply trucks into the storm to stock shelves with the frosted pink
pastries. The decision to do so had not been made on a whim or a hunch, but by a
powerful computer that crunched reams of sales data and found an unusual but
undeniable fact: When Mother Nature gets angry, people want to eat a lot more
strawberry Pop-Tarts. Officials in the Los Angeles Police Department are using
the anecdote to explain a similar, but far more complicated, idea that they and
researchers say could revolutionize law enforcement. ... Predictive policing is
rooted in the notion that it is possible, through sophisticated computer
analysis of information about previous crimes, to predict where and when crimes
will occur. At universities and technology companies in the U.S. and abroad,
scientists are working to develop computer programs that, in the most optimistic
scenarios, could enable police to anticipate, and possibly prevent, many types
of crime."

Snooping today

"Soon there will be no place to hide: The power to identify people merely from
photographs on the Internet is about to be unleashed," Chris Gourlay reports for
The Sunday Times of London. "A software company called Face.com is making
available technology that can identify individuals on social networking sites
and other online galleries by comparing their image against a known picture of
them. The move threatens to turn the Internet into an all-seeing eye ... Until
now the company, like others with similar technology, has limited its use
because of concerns over invasion of privacy. However, it has now started
releasing its Photo Finder software to developers that are building applications
to allow people to search for anyone, anywhere on the Net."

Anger management

"A man in China has been growing the nails on his left hand for 13 years - to
help him control his temper," Orange News U.K. reports. "Wen Jian, 41, of
Changle, Fujian province, says he was always getting into fights before he grew
his nails. His longest nail is 35 centimetres long and prevents him from making
his hand into a fist, reports Fuzhou News. Wen said: 'When I was young, I was
very bad-tempered. I was very aggressive and always getting into trouble. I
decided to grow my nails to help me control my temper because it makes me think
before throwing a punch.'"

Give back our Kremlin

"The Russian state has been given a month by a court to prove it owns the
Kremlin after descendants of Ivan the Terrible filed a lawsuit to stake their
claim to the Moscow landmark," The Daily Telegraph reports. "The Princes
Foundation, an organization representing the descendents of Rurik, a
ninth-century prince whose eponymous dynasty ruled until 1598, has argued that
its ancestors built and lived in the 69-acre Kremlin complex and that it should
now be returned to their ownership."

Criminal minds

"Kea parrots are renowned thieves in their native New Zealand, and with good
reason - even a complicated sequence of locks can't foil them," New Scientist
magazine reports. "Hiromitsu Miyata of Kyoto University in Japan first presented
keas with boxes of food secured with up to three bolts. The parrots managed to
open all of them, so he made the tasks harder. The most challenging setup
involved two bolts blocking each other such that one needed to be slid open
before the second would release. Miyata found that the keas cracked this problem
faster if they were allowed to study the setup for a while before attempting to
break it. This suggests they are able to plan their moves, he says. Until now,
the birds were thought to tackle problems in a haphazard fashion."

Don't say this

Kids sometimes ask their parents awkward questions ("Why are you two fighting?"
"What happens when you die?" "Why does Grandpa smell?"). An article by Ted
Spiker in Parenting magazine describes how to answer the tough ones. The author
also lists some "answers you wish you could give, but can't":

* Why were you on top of Mommy, Daddy? "She doesn't like reverse cowgirl all
that much."

* Is Santa real? "Dude, do you really believe elves who live in a part of the
world without much of an electrical infrastructure can program Wii games? Think,
Frank, think."

* What happens when you die? "Worms feed on your eyes."

* Who do you love best? "Your younger sister. And it's 'whom.'"

Thought du jour

"What Paul says about Peter tells us more about Paul than about Peter." * Baruch
Spinoza (1632-77)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                                3 of 3 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           September 5, 2010, Sunday

TODAY'S News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 338 words


Into the wild Blue-Ridge yonder

MARTINSBURG - U.S. Air Force Thunderbird F-16 pilots Lt. Col. Case Cunningham,
left-wing Maj. John Baum, right-wing Maj. John Gallemore and slot man Maj. Sean
Gustafson fly in a diamond formation during a practice at the 167th Air National
Guard Base in Martinsburg on Friday. They were familiarizing themselves with the
terrain for this weekend's Thunder over the Blue Ridge Open House & Air Show.

Water, water everywhere

DAIRA DINPANAH, Pakistan - In the month since floodwaters inundated central
Pakistan, more than 3 million people have yet to receive desperately needed food
aid, according to the U.N., and the Pakistani government says nearly 1 million
people have received no help of any sort. STORY, 10A

Cutting the strings

IOWA CITY, Iowa - When a young adult leaves home for college, it is, all at
once, overwhelming and exciting for everyone involved. But some say it's often
hardest for parents, who remember the days of college when there were fewer
support systems in place for students. STORY, 11A

Looking for trouble - it's a blast

KANDAHAR, Afghanistan - Seventeen U.S. troops fell to improvised explosive
devices in a five-day period that began Aug. 27, and the weapons accounted for
about 60 percent of the 485 International Security Assistance Force deaths this
year through August. The threat requires specialist IED hunters and specially
designed vehicles - and special men to drive them. STORY, 12A

Getting ahead of the crime problem

LOS ANGELES - Predictive policing is rooted in the notion that it is possible,
through sophisticated computer analysis of information about previous crimes, to
predict where and when crimes will occur. So, where's the next crime? STORY, 14A

Hands-off solutions

TEL AVIV, Israel - Inon Beracha envisions a world where your movements control
the gadgets and devices around you. There's no remote control to lose, no
buttons to push. The air conditioner senses your presence and changes the
temperature to your liking. STORY, 6A

- COMPILED FROM WIRE REPORTS

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Charleston Newspapers


                               1 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Time magazine names Santa Cruz predictive policing program one of the year's top
inventions

BYLINE: Jessica M. Pasko, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words


Nov. 23--SANTA CRUZ -- The city police department's predictive policing program
has garnered yet another accolade.

The program is being named as one of the 50 best inventions of 2011 by none
other than Time magazine.

In the Nov. 28 issue, which is already in newsstands, the program was praised
for helping the department "get ahead of the bad guys." It joins the ranks of
such inventions as the iPad, the electric car and devices that help people walk
again, which have all been named among the top inventions in previous years.
Time releases its "50 Best New Inventions" issue annually. Other inventions
honored by Time this year are Apple's Siri, 3-D processors and holographic
mapping.

"We are honored to be recognized by Time magazine for our predictive policing
program," said Police Chief Kevin Vogel. "Innovation is the key to modern
policing and we're proud to be leveraging technology in a way that keeps our
community safer."

The program, which uses technology based on earthquake prediction technology,
has been praised by media outlets and law enforcement agencies around the nation
for its innovation, including features in The New York Times and on ABC World
News with Diane Sawyer, among others.

Being recognized by Time is a big honor, but what's more important is that since
the program was implemented, the department has seen a large reduction in
crimes, said Zach Friend, spokesman and crime analyst for the department.

"We're focused a lot less on the coverage and the accolades than we are on the
actual reduction," said Friend, who was instrumental in bringing the program to
Santa Cruz.

Friend first read about the predictive policing program being worked on by Santa
Clara University's Dr. George Mohler in the Los Angeles Times last year, and
decided to approach Mohler about implementing it in Santa Cruz. Mohler developed
the program with a team of UCLA researchers using an earthquake aftershock model
to determine where future crimes will occur, initially using data from the Los
Angeles Police Department. It's similar to the predictability of an aftershock
after an earthquake in that the model predicts that there will be so-called
"after crimes" following an initial crime.

Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and provided him with crime
data from 2002-2009, with a focus on property crimes. The department became the
first in the nation to use the predictive program, which it implemented in July,
and since then, they've already seen a decrease in the targeted crime types,
which includes burglaries and motor vehicle thefts.

In January, the police department will work with the researchers to do a full
analysis of the program after the first six months of implementation. Other
police departments are also looking into implementing the program, which LAPD
has started testing in one of its divisions.

Friend and Lt. Bernie Escalante visited LAPD earlier this week to speak to
members of the division, which is three times the size of the entire Santa Cruz
Police Department, about using the program and how its worked in Santa Cruz.

The program can also help ease the pain of departments dealing with shrinking
staffing due to budget cuts, a matter of increasing importance given the
nation's economic troubles.

"Technological programs like this can help equalize the gap there," said Friend.

___ (c)2011 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111123-QC-Time-magazine-names-Santa-Cruz-predictive-policing
-program-one-of-the-year-20111123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               2 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            January 23, 2011 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

the NEXT crime;
Minneapolis police are part of a national movement that is producing
revolutionary results in predicting criminal behavior.

BYLINE: MATT McKINNEY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1597 words


STAR TRIBUNE EXCLUSIVE

Ryan Hughes, a young, spiky-haired computer analyst for the Minneapolis Police
Department, pulls up a map of the Twin Cities on his screen.

"Here, here, here," he begins, pointing to six red dots. Each marks a robbery
probably committed by the same man.

"And here," Hughes continues, pointing to a dot just northeast of Minneapolis,
"is where I predicted he would go next."

Simple as a crime map, seemingly as far-fetched as ESP, such scenes are becoming
more common. Police departments from Minneapolis to Los Angeles are turning to
the emerging science of using recent crime data to predict where criminals will
strike next.

The potentially revolutionary step could fundamentally alter the nature of
police work.

The idea is that everyone, even criminals, are creatures of habit. With enough
information about past crimes, it's possible to forecast their future target.

"We usually look at the last week and say, 'This is what happened in the last
week,'" said Minneapolis Chief Tim Dolan. "Well we've added to that, saying,
'This is what we think's going to happen next week.'"

That kind of thinking has just begun in Minneapolis, but Dolan says it's already
paid off in north and southwest Minneapolis, areas that led the city last year
in reducing overall crime rates.

The strategy looks slightly different everywhere it's used, but predictive
policing relies mainly on a police department's ability to accumulate deep
databases of crime information that detail time, location, methods and numerous
other bits of revealing data. Crunched by a computer analyst, the numbers reveal
patterns.

That's the task facing a crew of five such crime analysts who work out of a
second floor office in City Hall. Every day, they pore over recent crime data,
slicing it different ways and sometimes using software to crunch it further. If
a pattern emerges, they mark it down for consideration on an internal crime map
that gets passed along to the chief for his weekly meeting with top inspectors
and lieutenants.

A handful of police departments around the country have spent tens of thousands
of dollars on more advanced software, or are working with university researchers
and technology companies on algorithms to help them spot crime trends. It's akin
to predicting where an earthquake's aftershocks will be felt, says a Santa Clara
University mathematician developing formulas for such police work.

As for Hughes' prediction of where the Minneapolis robber would strike next? It
was made using free software distributed by the National Institute of Justice.
The software examines the location and timing of each crime to draw its
conclusions. The estimate of the robber's next target turned out to be a mile
off. But in the world of crime prediction, that's still counted as a success --
the kind of information that could put a patrol car close to the action.

Hughes, who hopes the Minneapolis department will eventually use more
high-powered software for predictive policing, said that his maps have
accurately predicted the locations of 45 percent of the city's violent crime.

"I have a better batting average than Joe Mauer," Hughes said.

Stocking Pop-Tarts

To better understand predictive policing, consider the Pop-Tarts story.

Businesses such as Wal-Mart have long anticipated customers' needs based on
weather and time of year. Coastal stores knew that as hurricanes approached,
customers stocked up on bottled water and duct tape. Those things made sense,
but looking more closely at customer data and comparing it to weather patterns,
analysts at Wal-Mart noticed that customers anticipating a hurricane also bought
more strawberry Pop-Tarts.

It's the sort of anecdote that the emerging industry of predictive policing
embraces because it shows how analyzing data can turn up surprises, things that
can be used to predict future behavior.

The promise of doing the same thing with crime has prompted some large police
departments such as Los Angeles to invest in partnerships with university
researchers to devise predictive algorithms or formulas. As exotic as it sounds,
it's just the next step in the changing world of police work, said William
Bratton, the celebrated former chief of police in Los Angeles and New York City.

"It's really the continuation of the evolution of policing," Bratton said.

Starting in the 1990s, when police began using crime reports to identify hot
spots, the focus has been on putting police officers near high-crime areas.
Putting laptops in squad cars and publishing crime maps helped shorten response
time. Now, police departments can quickly analyze a lot of crime data to spot
crime trends as they're occurring.

"So after two or three incidents we can put a stop to it instead of waiting for
20 or 30," said Bratton, who now works as an independent security consultant.

"This is potentially labor-saving," he said. "That's very important because as
we're going into very tough times with public financing, it's going to become
more and more critical."

The hope is that predictive policing will help supplant random patrolling, which
studies have shown doesn't work well.

"It's not enough to send people out and expect that they will have an impact on
crime," said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research
Forum in Washington.

Narrowing the field

Minneapolis police estimate that half of the city's most serious crime takes
place on 6 percent of its land area. Many of the worst areas are under video
surveillance, as the city expands its use of closed circuit cameras. But even
within those high crime areas, there might be a few blocks that are particularly
rough on any given week, said Sgt. Jeff Egge, the head of the department's Crime
Analysis Unit.

His staff of five analysts make predictions by printing color-coded maps that
show blocks or small sectors where they expect crimes such as burglary, robbery
and aggravated assaults. The techniques are less effective for "episodic" crimes
such as homicide, which are more random.

The strategy adds a predictive element to the department's CODEFOR program,
begun in 1998 to map the city's crime hot spots.

"When we started CODEFOR, we looked at where crime occurred last week," said
Deputy Chief Rob Allen. "What we've asked people to do is to focus more on where
we anticipate crime is going to occur next week. We've made it sort of
future-oriented rather than assuming the same patterns will continue."

It's had its successes, police say.

Last October, two felons walked into the Dunn Brothers coffee shop in Uptown,
pistol-whipped one of the two clerks, tied them up in a back room and took a bag
of cash.

Witnesses called 911. Police arrived in time to catch the robbers. The two now
face federal charges due to their criminal histories.

Fifth Precinct Inspector Ed Frizell said it was no coincidence that officers
arrived so quickly. Fifth Precinct officers were looking out for storefront
robberies along Lake Street as part of the precinct's predictive analysis.

"The officers of the Fifth Precinct have absolutely made this thing work,"
Frizell said. "They have total buy-in."

Frizell said he knows the color-coded maps issued by the Crime Analysis Unit are
taken seriously by his patrol officers because he sees them taking notes off of
fresh maps hung in the precinct.

It's easier than handing an officer a stack of the latest intelligence, said Lt.
Jeff Rugel, who runs the Gang Enforcement Team out of the department's new
strategic information center. "A commander issuing orders can say, 'See where
it's red? Go be where it's red,'" Rugel said. "It makes it very easy to see
what's going on as opposed to charts and charts of data."

It can be tough to gauge the success of predictive policing because analysts
don't know whether added police presence at predicted hot spots deters the
predicted crime.

"You can't measure things that don't happen," said Capt. Amelia Huffman,
commander of the criminal investigations division.

If a prediction helps police catch someone doing a lot of crimes, the effect on
local crime rates can be remarkable. For example, said Huffman, if a prolific
burglar is captured, burglary dots on the weekly crime maps will "melt away."

Plain common sense?

Sometimes, predictive policing looks a lot more like common sense than science
fiction, said Egge, who gave the example of how his unit analyzed years of data
on burglaries that occurred each year during the week the University of
Minnesota started classes.

Laptops, GPS units, iPods and other expensive items are often left in cars or
hallways as students unpack, and many are stolen.

This past fall, crime analysts Hughes and Susan McPhee came up with maps of the
Dinkytown area that highlighted the spots that historically have the most crime
during opening week. Then crime prevention specialists warned students in that
area to use caution while officers kept an eye on the worst spots. Crimes were
down sharply, police said.

Last month, Chief Dolan spoke at the grand opening of a police intelligence
center where a few officers can monitor hundreds of live video feeds from across
the city on three movie screens. They just have to know where to look.

Dolan said predictive policing has just begun in Minneapolis and will grow as
the department becomes more accustomed to it. In the end, he said, it's just one
more tool to put police where they should be.

"The most efficient thing we can do is prevent a crime," Dolan said. "Solving a
crime is all good once a crime's occurred. It is much more efficient to be
trying to prevent crime for a community."

Matt McKinney - 612-217-1747

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

In the U.S., a new computer program aims to fight crime by predicting it

BYLINE: BY ERICA GOODE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1036 words

ABSTRACT

The police in Santa Cruz, California, are giving predictive policing --
deploying officers in places where crimes have been projected as likely to occur
in the future -- a test run.

FULL TEXT

The arrests were routine. Two women were taken into custody after they were
discovered peering into cars in a downtown parking garage in Santa Cruz,
California. One woman was found to have outstanding warrants; the other was
carrying illegal drugs.

But the presence of the police officers in the garage that Friday afternoon in
July was anything but ordinary: They had been directed to it by a computer
program that had predicted that car burglaries were especially likely there that
day.

The program is part of an unusual experiment by the Santa Cruz Police Department
in predictive policing - deploying officers in places where the computer
projects crimes are likely to occur in the future.

In July, Santa Cruz began testing the prediction method for property crimes like
car and home burglaries and car thefts. So far, said Zach Friend, the Police
Department's crime analyst, the program has helped officers pre-empt several
crimes and has led to five arrests.

The notion of predictive policing is attracting increasing attention from law
enforcement agencies around the United States as departments struggle to fight
crime at a time when budgets are being slashed.

''We're facing a situation where we have 30 percent more calls for service but
20 percent less staff than in the year 2000, and that is going to continue to be
our reality,'' Mr. Friend said. ''So we have to deploy our resources in a more
effective way, and we thought this model would help.''

Efforts to systematically anticipate when and where crimes will occur are being
tried out in several cities. The Chicago Police Department, for example, created
a predictive analytics unit last year.

But Santa Cruz's method is more sophisticated than most. Based on models for
predicting aftershocks from earthquakes, it generates projections about which
areas and windows of time are at highest risk for future crimes by analyzing and
detecting patterns in years of past crime data. The projections are recalibrated
daily, as new crimes occur and updated data is fed into the program.

On the day the women were arrested, for example, the program identified the
approximately one-square-block area where the parking garage was as one of the
highest-risk locations for car burglaries.

In contrast, CompStat and other crime-tracking systems in use in many cities are
calibrated less frequently, rely more on humans to recognize patterns, and
allocate resources based on past crimes rather than predicted future offenses.

The program used in Santa Cruz was developed by a group of researchers -
including two mathematicians, George Mohler and Martin Short; an anthropologist,
P. Jeffrey Brantingham; and a criminologist, George E. Tita - in a project that
used data provided by the Los Angeles Police Department, which is hoping to
begin using the program later this year.

''We're watching closely what is going on in Santa Cruz,'' said Capt. Sean
Malinowski of the Los Angeles department's Foothill patrol division, who worked
with the researchers when he was head of the department's crime center under the
police chief at the time, William J. Bratton.

Captain Malinowski envisions a time when the police would issue crime forecasts
the same way the National Weather Service issues storm alerts.

''It would certainly be safer for everyone and more effective,'' he said,
postulating, ''You're having a rash of shootings, and the computer says it's
going to continue in these places and on these days of the week.''

He added, ''Now, if we have a problem, we throw a lot of cops at it, and
unfortunately, with the economy being the way it is, we don't have as many cops
available.''

The CompStat system, Captain Malinowski said, was a big advance for policing,
but the use of computer programs takes prediction to the next level.

With CompStat and other, similar approaches, ''we look at these maps, and
they're as accurate as we can get them,'' he said. ''But I'm looking at a map
from last week, and the whole assumption is that next week is like last week.
The computer eliminates the bias that people have.''

For the Santa Cruz trial, eight years of crime data were fed into the computer
program, which breaks Santa Cruz into squares of approximately 500 feet by 500
feet, or 150 meters by 150 meters. New data are added each day.

Officers are given a list of the 10 highest-probability ''hot spots'' of the day
at roll call. They check those areas during times that they are not out on
service calls. Before the program started, they made such ''pass through''
checks based on hunches or experience of where crimes were likely to occur.

Mr. Friend said that the reaction to the prediction method among officers had
been ''quite positive.''

''The feedback I've received is that there is appreciation that it has validated
intuition or provided a new focus area that wasn't known,'' he said.

How accurate the program really is has yet to be demonstrated; its success will
be evaluated after six months.

''The worst-case scenario is that it doesn't work, and we're no worse off,''
said Mr. Friend, who had enlisted Mr. Mohler, a professor at Santa Clara
University.

Mr. Friend said the early indications were encouraging. Burglaries were down 27
percent in July compared with July 2010, suggesting that the carefully directed
policing may have a deterrent effect, he said.

In Los Angeles, Captain Malinowski said, the Police Department hopes to expand
the program to include some violent crimes, like gang shootings.

Predicting crime with computer programs is in some ways a natural outgrowth of
the technology that companies like Wal-Mart now use routinely to predict the
buying habits of customers, said Scott Dickson, a crime analyst for the Police
Department in Killeen, Texas, who discussed the Santa Cruz experiment on his
blog.

Law enforcement agencies, Mr. Dickson noted, have ''great warehouses of data''
that can be used to feed predictive programs. And in the end, he said, ''it's
cheaper to prevent a crime than to solve a crime, and that's where I think the
promise lies.''

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Time Magazine names Santa Cruz police program to predict crime one of the year's
top inventions

BYLINE: By Jessica M. Pasko jpasko@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 552 words


SANTA CRUZ -- The city police department's program to predict crime trends has
garnered yet another accolade.

The program is being named as one of the 50 best inventions of 2011 by Time
magazine.

In the Nov. 28 issue, which is already on newsstands, the program was praised
for helping the department "get ahead of the bad guys."

It joins the ranks of such inventions as the iPad, the electric car and devices
that help people walk again, which have all been named among the top inventions
in previous years. Time releases its "50 Best New Inventions" issue annually.
Other inventions honored by Time this year are Apple's Siri, 3-D processors and
holographic mapping.

"We are honored to be recognized by Time magazine for our predictive policing
program," said police Chief Kevin Vogel. "Innovation is the key to modern
policing, and we're proud to be leveraging technology in a way that keeps our
community safer."

The program, which uses technology based on earthquake prediction technology,
has been praised by media outlets and law enforcement agencies around the nation
for its innovation, including features in the New York Times and on ABC "World
News" with Diane Sawyer, among others.

Being recognized by Time is a big honor, but what's more important is that since
the program was implemented, the department has seen a large reduction in
crimes, said Zach Friend, spokesman and crime analyst for the department.

"We're focused a lot less on the coverage and the accolades than we are on the
actual reduction," said Friend, who was instrumental in bringing the program to
Santa Cruz.

Friend first read about the predictive policing program being worked on by Santa
Clara University's George Mohler in the Los Angeles Times last year and decided
to approach Mohler about implementing it in Santa Cruz.

Mohler developed the program with a team of UCLA researchers using an earthquake
aftershock model to determine where future crimes will occur, initially using
data from the Los Angeles Police Department. It's similar to the predictability
of an aftershock after an earthquake in that the model predicts that there will
be so-called "after crimes" following an initial crime.

Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and provided him with crime
data from 2002-2009, with a focus on property crimes. The department became the
first in the nation to use the predictive program, which it implemented in July,
and since then, it has already resulted in a decrease in the targeted crime
types, which includes burglaries and motor vehicle thefts.

In January, the police department will work with the researchers to do a full
analysis of the program after the first six months of implementation. Other
police departments are also looking into implementing the program, which LAPD
has started testing in one of its divisions.

Friend and Lt. Bernie Escalante visited LAPD earlier this week to speak to
members of the division, which is three times the size of the entire Santa Cruz
Police Department, about using the program and how its worked in Santa Cruz.

The program can also help ease the pain of departments dealing with shrinking
staffing due to budget cuts, a matter of increasing importance given the
nation's economic troubles.

"Technological programs like this can help equalize the gap there," said Friend.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 29, 2011 Thursday

Burglaries drop in first five months of predictive policing in Santa Cruz

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Dec. 29--SANTA CRUZ -- Reported burglaries to homes, businesses and vehicles
fell in the first five months of Santa Cruz police's predictive policing
program, police said Wednesday.

Predictive policing uses historical data on the time and location of burglaries
and thefts and runs it through an algorithm to predict future crime. Officers
are asked to patrol in those areas to deter crime.

There has been a national movement among police agencies to implement predictive
policing, and Santa Cruz police on July 1 were the first to use it.

From July 1 to Nov. 30, there was an 11 percent drop in reported burglaries in
the city compared with the same period in 2010, said Zach Friend, Santa Cruz
police crime analyst.

Compared with the first half of 2011 -- Jan. 1, 2011 to June 30, 2011 -- there
was a 20 percent decrease in burglaries to homes, business and vehicles, Friend
said.

The drop could be correlated to the new program and not necessarily caused by
it, but Friend said the change was positive.

There is an average of 300 burglaries to homes, businesses and vehicles annually
in Santa Cruz, Friend said.

"I'd have to say that was a success," Friend said of the program's preliminary
results.

In late January, Santa Cruz police plan to release a full report of the
program's first six months after the data is analyzed by professors from Santa
Clara University and the UCLA. George Mohler, an assistant professor of math and
computer

science, has worked on the project with anthropologist Jeff Brantingham of UCLA.

If the results are positive, Friend said it could grow to include data for
bicycle thefts and gang-motivated violent crime to try to deter them.

During the department's roll call at the start of each shift, officers are given
a sheet of paper that lists street blocks and times with the highest probability
of burglaries and auto thefts -- based on historical data and the algorithm.

If the officer has a few minutes between calls for service, he or she can patrol
that area, Friend said.

Friend said the targeted patrols since July have netted about 12 arrests, but
the emphasis is on crime prevention.

"The intent has not been to arrest our way out of problem, it's to deter crime,"
Friend said.

"If the criminal is familiar with policing patterns and you're breaking that
pattern through targeted patrol, then they're less likely to commit a burglary,"
Friend said.

He added that officers' feedback on the new system would help guide the
potential changes to it in 2012.

In addition to burglaries, police started in July to implement predictive
policing methods for auto thefts.

So far, police said the change in reported auto thefts have been statistically
insignificant.

___ (c)2011 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111229-QC-Burglaries-drop-in-first-five-months-of-predictive-policing
-in-Santa-Cruz-1229-20111229

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               6 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sending the Police Before There's a Crime

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 991 words


The arrests were routine. Two women were taken into custody after they were
discovered peering into cars in a downtown parking garage in Santa Cruz, Calif.
One woman was found to have outstanding warrants; the other was carrying illegal
drugs.

But the presence of the police officers in the garage that Friday afternoon in
July was anything but ordinary: They were directed to the parking structure by a
computer program that had predicted that car burglaries were especially likely
there that day.

The program is part of an unusual experiment by the Santa Cruz Police Department
in predictive policing -- deploying officers in places where crimes are likely
to occur in the future.

In July, Santa Cruz began testing the prediction method for property crimes like
car and home burglaries and car thefts. So far, said Zach Friend, the police
department's crime analyst, the program has helped officers pre-empt several
crimes and has led to five arrests.

The notion of predictive policing is attracting increasing attention from law
enforcement agencies around the country as departments struggle to fight crime
at a time when budgets are being slashed.

''We're facing a situation where we have 30 percent more calls for service but
20 percent less staff than in the year 2000, and that is going to continue to be
our reality,'' Mr. Friend said. ''So we have to deploy our resources in a more
effective way, and we thought this model would help.''

Efforts to systematically anticipate when and where crimes will occur are being
tried out in several cities. The Chicago Police Department, for example, created
a predictive analytics unit last year.

But Santa Cruz's method is more sophisticated than most. Based on models for
predicting aftershocks from earthquakes, it generates projections about which
areas and windows of time are at highest risk for future crimes by analyzing and
detecting patterns in years of past crime data. The projections are recalibrated
daily, as new crimes occur and updated data is fed into the program.

On the day the women were arrested, for example, the program identified the
approximately one-square-block area where the parking garage is situated as one
of the highest-risk locations for car burglaries.

In contrast, CompStat and other crime-tracking systems in use in many cities are
calibrated less frequently, rely more on humans to recognize patterns, and
allocate resources based on past crimes rather than predicted future offenses.

The program was developed by a group of researchers -- including two
mathematicians, George Mohler and Martin Short; an anthropologist, Jeff
Brantingham; and a criminologist, George Tita -- in a project that used data
provided by the Los Angeles Police Department, which is hoping to begin using
the program later this year.

''We're watching closely what is going on in Santa Cruz,'' said Capt. Sean
Malinowski of the Los Angeles department's Foothill Patrol Division, who worked
with the researchers when he was head of the department's crime center under the
police chief at the time, William J. Bratton.

Captain Malinowski envisions a time when the police will issue crime forecasts
the same way the Weather Service issues storm alerts.

''It would certainly be safer for everyone and more effective,'' he said, adding
that the forecast might say, ''You're having a rash of shootings and the
computer says it's going to continue in these places and on these days of the
week.''

He added, ''Now, if we have a problem, we throw a lot of cops at it, and
unfortunately, with the economy being the way it is, we don't have as many cops
available.''

The CompStat system, Captain Malinowski said, was a big advance for policing,
but the use of computer programs takes prediction to the next level.

With CompStat and other, similar approaches, ''we look at these maps and they're
as accurate as we can get them,'' he said. ''But I'm looking at a map from last
week and the whole assumption is that next week is like last week. The computer
eliminates the bias that people have.''

For the Santa Cruz trial, eight years of crime data were fed into the computer
program, which breaks Santa Cruz into squares of approximately 500 feet by 500
feet. New data is added each day.

Officers are given a list of the 10 highest-probability ''hot spots'' of the day
at roll call. They check those areas during times that they are not out on
service calls. Before the program started, they made such ''pass through''
checks based on hunches or experience of where crimes were likely to occur.

Mr. Friend said that the reaction to the prediction method among officers had
been ''quite positive.''

''The feedback I've received is that there is appreciation that it has validated
intuition or provided a new focus area that wasn't known,'' he said.

How accurate the program really is has yet to be demonstrated; its success will
be evaluated after six months.

''The worst-case scenario is that it doesn't work and we're no worse off,'' said
Mr. Friend, who enlisted Dr. Mohler, a professor at Santa Clara University.

Mr. Friend said the early indications were encouraging. Burglaries were down 27
percent in July compared with July 2010, suggesting that the targeted policing
may have a deterrent effect, he said.

In Los Angeles, Captain Malinowski said, the police department hopes to expand
the program to include some violent crimes, like gang shootings.

Predicting crime with computer programs is in some ways a natural outgrowth of
the technology that companies like Wal-Mart now use routinely to predict the
buying habits of customers, said Scott Dickson, a crime analyst for the police
department in Killeen, Tex., who discussed the Santa Cruz experiment on his
blog.

Law enforcement agencies, Mr. Dickson noted, have ''great warehouses of data''
that can be used to feed predictive programs. And in the end, he said, ''it's
cheaper to prevent a crime than to solve a crime, and that's where I think the
promise lies.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officers at a location flagged by a computer program as a place
where car burglaries were likely. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Santa Cruz police first in nation to try Santa Clara University model to predict
crime

BYLINE: By Stephen Baxter sbaxter@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local

LENGTH: 565 words


SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the nation to use
a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but rather to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 - as well as the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the soonest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 14, 2011 Friday

Santa Cruz police first in nation to try Santa Clara University model to predict
crime

BYLINE: By Stephen Baxter sbaxter@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; Peninsula; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 565 words


SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the nation to use
a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but rather to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 - as well as the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the soonest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sgt. David Perry leads the Thursday afternoon swing shift roll call at
the Santa Cruz police department.
Santa Cruz police officers at roll call for Thursday's swing shift.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday

Crime predictions to guide Santa Cruz police

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


Jan. 15--SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the
nation to use a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 -- along with the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the earliest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

To see more of The Santa Cruz Sentinel or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Santa Cruz Sentinel,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110115-QC-Crime-predictions-to-guide-Santa-Cruz-police-0115-20110115

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               10 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 15, 2011 Saturday

Crime predictions to guide Santa Cruz police; Agency says it will be first in
nation to try Santa Clara University model

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words


Jan. 15--SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz police are poised to be the first in the
nation to use a new statistical model to predict crime and try to prevent it.

Police recently submitted eight years of crime reports to an applied mathematics
professor at Santa Clara University, and he is mapping the time, location and
recurrence of crimes to help police predict crime and tailor their patrols. It's
an emerging, national movement called "predictive policing."

"I think the more you put police in areas where there is more crime, the more
efficiently you're policing the city," said George Mohler, the Santa Clara
University professor doing the research.

Mohler said the goal is not to arrest more people, but rather to have an officer
patrolling a neighborhood so that a car burglary, for example, doesn't happen in
the first place.

Zach Friend, a crime analyst for the Santa Cruz Police Department, said he
approached Mohler about the project after reading news reports about predictive
policing in the fall.

In November, Friend and Santa Cruz police leaders met with Mohler and gave him
data from 2002 to 2009 -- as well as the city's 2010 data this week. The data
focused on property crimes, including the time, date and location of home
burglaries, vehicle burglaries and stolen vehicles.

"The overall model is based on the belief that crime is not random. So with
enough data points, you could predict where and when it will happen," Friend
said.

Mohler added, "We don't view criminals as deviants, it's people who see an
opportunity and take advantage of it."

If a person sees a laptop computer in a parked car, for example, and a police
officer is driving by at the same time, the thief backs off. The crime is
prevented, the person is not arrested and the police are more efficient on
patrol.

Mohler earned a doctorate at UCLA, where he crunched numbers with crime data
from the Los Angeles and Long Beach police departments. He expects to return his
results to Santa Cruz police in the coming months, and police will decide how to
change patrol locations and times within officers' usual shifts.

The changes will start in February at the soonest, police said.

"We're the only police agency in the country doing it," Friend said.

Santa Cruz police now use maps of reported crime, crime statistics, neighborhood
complaints and old-fashioned officer intuition to combat crime. In the new
system, police anticipate that officers will receive instructions in their roll
call meetings before each shift to talk about places and times to perform extra
checks, Friend said. Supervisors also might discuss predicted spikes in crime.

Mohler, a 29-year-old assistant professor, said he is doing the work at no
charge. He said he wants to build his repertoire of published research.

Mohler said burglars who successfully steal from a home or car often return
there because they knew it worked. No one was at a home when it was broken into
at 2 p.m., for instance, and burglars often use that knowledge to return or
break in to another house in the neighborhood.

In Santa Cruz, Mohler has found that repeat car and home burglaries tend to
happen four days after a crime. In Los Angeles and Long Beach, he said, the
recurrence takes seven to eight days, Mohler said.

It's unclear why, but Mohler said that kind of data could help police.

"Whether a person returns four days later or six days later might not be
intuitive," he said.

To see more of The Santa Cruz Sentinel or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Santa Cruz Sentinel,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110115-QC-Crime-predictions-to-guide-Santa-Cruz-police-Agency-says-it-will-be-
first-in-nation-to-try-Santa-Clara-University-model-0115-20110115

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2011 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               11 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Cassidy: Santa Clara University math scholar fights crime with mad math skills

BYLINE: By Mike Cassidy Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 789 words


George Mohler is a crime-fighting, math professor superhero -- not that he'd
ever call himself that.

First he'll point out it's "assistant professor," first year at Santa Clara
University. Next, he'll go into some detail about how his computer program that
uses past crime data to predict when and where future crimes will be attempted
is not exactly mathematics.

"I don't know that I'd call it math," Mohler, a slim guy who dresses geek chic,
says over coffee. "In some ways it's applied statistics, really. Spatial
statistics."

Known to the rest of us as math.

Which is not to say he isn't delighted by the attention his work with
crime-curbing algorithms has been attracting (newspaper stories, academic
papers, conference talks). After all, it isn't every day that algorithms stir up
much of a fuss, unless you're Google ( GOOG ).

"To be honest I never really imagined that this is where I'd end up," says
Mohler, 29, meaning not the Peet's near campus, but as the it guy in the
emerging crime-fighting field known as predictive policing.

"I think it's brilliant," says Zach Friend, the Santa Cruz Police Department's
crime analyst. Santa Cruz is the first department to deploy Mohler's program.
Los Angeles is planning to incorporate the system into its crime prevention
efforts, and both Mohler and Friend say they've heard from other departments
that are interested.

Santa Cruz has been using Mohler's program only long enough to know it's very
promising. In the first few weeks, officers have seen a high correlation between
when and where the program says a certain type of property crime -- burglary,
car break-ins or auto theft -- will occur and reports of that crime being tried
or committed, Friend says. It will be months, he adds, before crime-fighters in
Surf City will be able to determine its overall effectiveness.

But more important for now is what Mohler's work has to say to every school kid
struggling with math and wondering what possible use there could ever be for all
this number crunching.

In a valley of curious minds, Mohler shows just where those minds can lead us.
This all started for him at UC Santa Barbara when he was tinkering with computer
programs that might help those working with plastics and other materials create
better products. It was a heady mix of polynomials and polymers. (A little math
humor there.) Then onto UCLA, his stop before Santa Clara, where he joined a
team studying crime patterns in Los Angeles.

Mohler started noodling around with notions of how to spot patterns in seemingly
random events. You know, like earthquakes. And bingo. What happens when a
sizable earthquake hits an area? Aftershocks.

And it turns out that when one house on a street is burglarized, it's not
unusual for nearby houses -- or even the same house -- to be hit later. It seems
burglars, like most of us, hate long commutes. They prefer to strike near home,
which is one reason for follow-on crime in a given neighborhood, Mohler says.

"You can see it,'' he says of the crime data he's crunched, "especially property
crimes."

Mohler began searching for studies covering earthquake prediction models, which
have been around for years. "Google is an invaluable tool." (Love those
algorithms.) He read and pondered and sought help from fellow academics. He
determined that the principles behind earthquake prediction could be tweaked and
applied to crime.

Mohler's model (see http://math.scu.edu/~gmohler/crime_science2.pdf),  which
relies on years of crime data, now provides Santa Cruz with a dynamic tool that
constantly changes as crimes are committed in different parts of the city.
Officers review the predictions regularly. They make it a point to pass through
trouble spots when they are not busy with other calls.

Mohler's timing couldn't have been better. As he was toiling away, many police
departments statewide were slashing budgets, trimming the number of officers and
looking for ways to keep everyone safe with fewer cops. Mohler, whose research
is supported by federal grants, is not charging departments for his work.

"We are faced with a reality that we will not see more officers coming into our
agency, or agencies throughout the state, anytime soon," says Friend, who last
year read mention of Mohler's project in the Los Angeles Times and shot him an
email. "We need resources, but if that's not a reality we have to start
leveraging technology in a way that makes us more efficient."

Which means that Mohler's work might be only the beginning for crime-fighting
math professor superheroes everywhere.

Contact Mike Cassidy at mcassidy@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5536. Follow him at
Twitter.com/mikecassidy.more on crime-fighting mathematics
Go to http://math.scu.edu/ ~gmohler/crime_science2.pdf

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday

Cassidy: Santa Clara University math scholar fights crime with mad math skills

BYLINE: By Mike Cassidy Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local; Columnists; Business; Columnists

LENGTH: 774 words


George Mohler is a crime-fighting, math professor superhero -- not that he'd
ever call himself that.

First he'll point out it's "assistant professor," first year at Santa Clara
University. Next, he'll go into some detail about how his computer program that
uses past crime data to predict when and where future crimes will be attempted
is not exactly mathematics.

"I don't know that I'd call it math," Mohler, a slim guy who dresses geek chic,
says over coffee. "In some ways it's applied statistics, really. Spatial
statistics."

Known to the rest of us as math.

Which is not to say he isn't delighted by the attention his work with
crime-curbing algorithms has been attracting (newspaper stories, academic
papers, conference talks). After all, it isn't every day that algorithms stir up
much of a fuss, unless you're Google ( GOOG ).

"To be honest I never really imagined that this is where I'd end up," says
Mohler, 29, meaning not the Peet's near campus, but as the it guy in the
emerging crime-fighting field known as predictive policing.

"I think it's brilliant," says Zach Friend, the Santa Cruz Police Department's
crime analyst. Santa Cruz is the first department to deploy Mohler's program.
Los Angeles is planning to incorporate the system into its crime prevention
efforts, and both Mohler and Friend say they've heard from other departments
that are interested.

Santa Cruz has been using Mohler's program only long enough to know it's very
promising. In the first few weeks, officers have seen a high correlation between
when and where the program says a certain type of property crime -- burglary,
car break-ins or auto theft -- will occur and reports of that crime being tried
or committed, Friend says. It will be months, he adds, before crime-fighters in
Surf City will be able to determine its overall effectiveness.

But more important for now is what Mohler's work has to say to every school kid
struggling with math and wondering what possible use there could ever be for all
this number crunching.

In a valley of curious minds, Mohler shows just where those minds can lead us.
This all started for him at UC Santa Barbara when he was tinkering with computer
programs that might help those working with plastics and other materials create
better products. It was a heady mix of polynomials and polymers. (A little math
humor there.) Then onto UCLA, his stop before Santa Clara, where he joined a
team studying crime patterns in Los Angeles.

Mohler started noodling around with notions of how to spot patterns in seemingly
random events. You know, like earthquakes. And bingo. What happens when a
sizable earthquake hits an area? Aftershocks.

And it turns out that when one house on a street is burglarized, it's not
unusual for nearby houses -- or even the same house -- to be hit later. It seems
burglars, like most of us, hate long commutes. They prefer to strike near home,
which is one reason for follow-on crime in a given neighborhood, Mohler says.

"You can see it,'' he says of the crime data he's crunched, "especially property
crimes."

Mohler began searching for studies covering earthquake prediction models, which
have been around for years. "Google is an invaluable tool." (Love those
algorithms.) He read and pondered and sought help from fellow academics. He
determined that the principles behind earthquake prediction could be tweaked and
applied to crime.

Mohler's model, which relies on years of crime data, now provides Santa Cruz
with a dynamic tool that constantly changes as crimes are committed in different
parts of the city. Officers review the predictions regularly. They make it a
point to pass through trouble spots when they are not busy with other calls.

Mohler's timing couldn't have been better. As he was toiling away, many police
departments statewide were slashing budgets, trimming the number of officers and
looking for ways to keep everyone safe with fewer cops. Mohler, whose research
is supported by federal grants, is not charging departments for his work.

"We are faced with a reality that we will not see more officers coming into our
agency, or agencies throughout the state, anytime soon," says Friend, who last
year read mention of Mohler's project in the Los Angeles Times and shot him an
email. "We need resources, but if that's not a reality we have to start
leveraging technology in a way that makes us more efficient."

Which means that Mohler's work might be only the beginning for crime-fighting
math professor superheroes everywhere.

Contact Mike Cassidy at mcassidy@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5536. Follow him at
Twitter.com/mikecassidy.

Go to http://math.scu.edu/ ~gmohler/crime_science2.pdf

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 13 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             August 7, 2011 Sunday

Newcombe to head R.C. sheriff's station

BYLINE: Wendy Leung, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


RANCHO CUCAMONGA - There's a new sheriff's captain in town.

Lt. Mike Newcombe, who came to the Rancho Cucamonga station in April, has been
promoted to captain and will act as the city's police chief.

The move follows the promotion of Capt. Joe Cusimano, who has led the San
Bernardino County sheriff's substation since 2007.

Cusimano, 47, a Rancho Cucamonga resident, will move to the deputy chief
position at the San Bernardino headquarters and lead the desert patrol bureau.

Cusimano and Newcombe's promotions are effective Aug.13.

"I'm honored to be picked," said Newcombe, 47. "I know there will be all kinds
of difficult challenges, and I welcome the challenges."

Newcombe said he will take over a station already made successful by his
predecessor.

"I'm not sent here to fix anything," he said. "I'm going to take what Joe has
done and refine it."

Newcombe, who lives in Highland with his wife and two daughters, came from a
family of firefighters. His grandfather was a chief of the Crest Forest Fire
District, and his uncle was a fire chief in San Bernardino.

A Lake Arrowhead native, Newcombe graduated from California Baptist University
with a bachelor's degree in business administration.

During Newcombe's 22 years with the Sheriff's Department, he served as
operations lieutenant in the Fontana and Yucaipa stations. In the early 1990s,
he spent several years doing patrol in Rancho Cucamonga.

In April, Newcombe joined the Rancho Cucamonga station as an administrative
lieutenant.

Mayor Dennis Michael said he feels comfortable knowing that Newcombe is already
familiar with this community.

As a contract city, Rancho Cucamonga regularly sees transitions in the sheriff's
captain post. Sheriff Rod Hoops once served as the Rancho Cucamonga captain.

It is the nature of partnering with the Sheriff's Department, Michael said.

"I rather have outstanding individuals promoted than to have people of lesser
quality staying here for longer periods of time," Michael said.

Next week, when Cusimano starts his new post as deputy chief in charge of the
desert region, he'll be back in familiar territory. Cusimano grew up in Apple
Valley and was stationed in Hesperia prior to coming to Rancho Cucamonga in
2007.

Cusimano leaves a station with 174 employees, 13 less than when he started.
Budgetary constraints have added new responsibilities to the captain's position.

The outgoing captain said Newcombe's biggest challenge will be to "police
leaner."

Michael said Cusimano has done an excellent job reallocating positions and
cutting overtime.

"We've not suffered any degradation and level of service," Michael said. "He's
an outstanding budgetary manager. He's a quick thinker, and he gets a lot of
things done."

During Cusimano's tenure, he helped create the social host ordinance,
established an alcohol compliance team and expanded the retail theft unit. Most
recently, Cusimano led a crime unit to analyze patterns and use predictive
policing to curb a string of residential burglaries originating from Los Angeles
-based gangs.

Cusimano is one of two city leaders leaving this month. City Manager Jack Lam is
retiring Aug. 31 after leading City Hall for 22 years.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
