
                               1 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright (c) 2012 Emory Law Journal
                               Emory Law Journal

                                      2012

                               Emory Law Journal

                               62 Emory L.J. 259

LENGTH: 29201 words

ARTICLE: PREDICTIVE POLICING AND REASONABLE SUSPICION

NAME: Andrew Guthrie Ferguson*

BIO: * Assistant Professor of Law, University of the District of Columbia David
A. Clarke School of Law. 2004 LL.M Georgetown University Law School, 2000 J.D.
University of Pennsylvania Law School. With thanks and appreciation to
Professors Christopher Slobogin, David Rudovsky, Arnold Loewy, Cara Drinan,
Steven Morrison, George Mohler, Jeffrey Brantingham, Joel Caplan, and Leslie
Kennedy. Special thanks to Jake Dworkin for his research assistance.

HIGHLIGHT: Very soon we will be moving to a Predictive Policing model where, by
studying real time crime patterns, we can anticipate where a crime is likely to
occur. n1


 TEXT:
 [*261]

   Introduction

 The future of policing blinks on a computer screen in downtown Los Angeles. n2
On that screen, police have predicted the next area of potential criminal
activity. n3 Based on crime data collection, analysis, and computer modeling,
the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is directing patrol officers to a
targeted block of expected crime. n4 In the LAPD's Real Time Analysis and
Critical Response Division, a new concept of "predictive policing" is being
developed based on past crime patterns and sophisticated computer algorithms. n5
Promoted as the next smart policing weapon in the war on crime, its promise is
to predict crime before it happens. n6

   In another part of California, police stake out an area of predicted criminal
activity. As described by the New York Times, in a parking garage forecast to be
the location of future car thefts, two women are arrested after peering into car
windows. n7 One has an open arrest warrant. n8 The other is caught carrying
drugs. n9 Without the predictive tip, it is arguable that peering into windows
in a  [*262]  parking garage is sufficient reason to be stopped and detained by
police. n10 But with the predictive technologies the constitutional questions
become more difficult. Can a computer program that predicts the probability of
future crime locations change Fourth Amendment protections in the targeted area?
Are data-driven "hunches" any more reliable than personal "hunches"
traditionally deemed insufficient to justify reasonable suspicion? n11 What
measures exist to examine the reliability and accuracy of these new policing
tools? n12 These questions, and more, are raised by the use of any predictive
policing strategy.

   This Article addresses the Fourth Amendment consequences of this police
innovation, analyzing the effect of predictive policing on the concept of
reasonable suspicion. More broadly, this Article addresses the theoretical and
doctrinal impact of predictive policing on the Fourth Amendment, leaving for
future projects an empirical study of the program's effectiveness or practical
results. In its current form, the technology is too new to make any definitive
conclusion on its merits as a crime suppression technique. n13 Yet, as can be
seen by the growing interest in the concept of predictive policing in the form
of test programs, major government grants, national news articles, and awards,
the future is now, and the constitutional implications of that future must now
be addressed. n14

   This Article examines predictive policing in the context of the larger
constitutional framework of "prediction" and the Fourth Amendment. Many aspects
of current Fourth Amendment law are implicitly or explicitly based on  [*263]
prediction. n15 Search warrants are predictions that contraband will be found in
a particular location. n16 Investigative detentions are predictions that the
person is committing, or about to commit, a crime. n17 Fourth Amendment concepts
like probable cause, reasonable suspicion, n18 informant tips, n19 drug courier
profiles, n20 high crime areas n21 and others are based on evaluating levels of
probability that criminal activity will occur or is occurring. n22 Predictive
policing both fits within this established tradition and also challenges it in
novel ways. As will be argued, predictive policing may, in fact, necessitate a
reconsideration of some of the existing reasonable suspicion doctrine, as well
as point to refinements in future application. n23

   The Article concludes that in its idealized form, predictive policing will
impact reasonable suspicion analysis and become an important factor in a court's
Fourth Amendment calculus. While never enough alone, this predictive information
will be used to justify stops under existing Fourth Amendment precedent.
Evolving from a rich academic tradition of criminological insights around "crime
and place" and building on real-world experiments with "hotspot" policing, the
theory of predictive policing has both academic and practical grounding. n24 In
addition, in its initial implementation - focused on specific types of property
crime in specific locations under controlled tests - the predictions appear to
have positive results in reducing crime. n25 At the same time, the underlying
rationale of why predictive policing may be effective for certain crimes and
areas may actually lead to a limitation on its applicability. These limitations
should inform future Fourth Amendment analysis in determining reasonable
suspicion. Further, these limitations raise deeper  [*264]  questions about the
reliability, transparency, and application of the technology. Articulating and
framing those theoretical and practical limitations is the task of this Article.

   Part I of this Article canvasses the current state of predictive policing in
the United States. Placed within the context of a two-decade evolution to
data-driven and intelligence-led policing, predictive policing is the next
logical step in using crime data and mapping technologies to reduce crime. n26
This Part briefly examines the history, theoretical background, and current
research on predicting crime patterns, with a focus on the types of crimes that
police departments and researchers are using to test the predictive policing
model.

   Part II of this Article examines prediction as a significant, if unexamined,
aspect of the Fourth Amendment doctrine. Predicting criminal activities based on
probabilities rests at the core of Fourth Amendment concepts such as probable
cause and reasonable suspicion. n27 In addition, the Supreme Court has addressed
the predictive value of information - including informant tips, profiling, and
high crime areas - in a range of cases. n28 This Part distills the principles
emerging from these cases in an effort to ground an analysis of predictive
policing.

   Part III applies the relevant Fourth Amendment analogies to the problem of
predictive policing. Depending on the Fourth Amendment analogy chosen for
analysis (tips, profiles, high crime areas), different problems arise. Notably,
however, under any of the analogies courts will come out with the same answer
under current law. As will be argued, predictive policing will alter the
reasonable suspicion analysis in a direct way, changing the current calculus to
favor a finding of reasonable suspicion. Whether viewed positively or negatively
as a constitutional matter, this shift points to larger problems with a weakened
reasonable suspicion standard. If a law enforcement computer algorithm can
change Fourth Amendment freedoms, then courts have an extra responsibility to
ensure that the technology meets reasonable standards of reliability and
accuracy.

    [*265]  Part IV of the Article addresses the present and future concerns
with using predictive policing technologies. First, this Part looks at the
importance of understanding why predictive technologies work, and it links the
underlying research on prediction to the Fourth Amendment analysis that courts
will soon be required to make. In general, the predictive theories that have
been studied focus exclusively on property crimes. One concern with the adoption
of these technologies is that they may become divorced from the underlying logic
of why certain crime locations can be predicted. In other words, the studies
that focus on property crimes in fixed areas could be applied unthinkingly to
other crimes in other contexts. In addition, this Part looks at ways to assess
the reliability, transparency, and accuracy of the programs, as well as the need
to create mechanisms to avoid manipulation, bias, or uneven application.
Predictive policing, like many new law enforcement strategies, raises issues of
class-based and race-based targeting, as well as general civil liberty concerns.
Finally, this Part looks at some of the potential unintended consequences of
this technology that may actually make certain police stops more difficult to
justify as a constitutional matter.

   I. Predictive Policing: An Introduction

 "Predictive policing refers to any policing strategy or tactic that develops
and uses information and advanced analysis to inform forward-thinking crime
prevention." n29 More objective than a patrol officer's hunch about an area,
predictive policing uses the power of "big data" to isolate patterns in
otherwise random acts. n30 Predictive policing has become a generic term for any
crime fighting approach that includes a reliance on information technology
(usually crime mapping data and analysis), criminology theory, predictive
algorithms, and the use of this data to improve crime suppression on the
streets. n31 In simple terms, predictive policing involves computer models that
predict areas of future crime locations from past crime statistics and other
data. n32

    [*266]  A simple predictive policing model might take historical data about
a particular type of crime, the location and time of that crime, and plot those
past crimes in a way that would inform crime analysts about an unusual cluster
of crimes. n33 As will be discussed later, research studies support the accuracy
of this historically based prediction for certain crimes under certain
circumstances. n34 A more complex predictive policing model might involve
event-based concerns - such as arrests, calls for service, or incident reports -
in combination with place-based concerns, such as addresses of known gang
members, arrestees, parolees, or places of frequent violence or unrest. n35 This
information could be weighted by types of crime (violent crime, property crime)
and even include information about particular individuals, n36 gang activity,
traffic patterns, environmental factors, and other local information. n37 A
computer algorithm would then analyze the data by searching for patterns in
[*267]  areas of statistically more probable criminal activity. n38 Most
relevantly, this predictive information would then inform police administrators
about how to allocate resources to target that specific type of crime. And, in
some sophisticated programs, this information would be provided to officers
patrolling the streets in real-time through a squad car computer or mobile
device. n39

   As an example, currently the Los Angeles Police Department has undertaken an
ambitious pilot project to test the feasibility of predictive policing. n40
Under the leadership of former Police Chief William Bratton, and with the
collaboration of scholars at several California universities, the police have
begun to test the effectiveness of predictive policing focusing on certain
crimes in certain areas. n41 As developed by LAPD Captain Sean Malinowski, and
based on the algorithms created by UCLA Professor Jeffrey Brantingham and
University of Santa Cruz Professor George Mohler, the project focuses on three
specific types of property crime - burglary, automobile theft, and theft from
automobiles. n42 Based on three years worth of data, weighting more recent
crimes more than older crimes and observing patterns, the algorithm seeks to
identify 500-by-500 foot areas of probable criminal activity. n43 Officers are
then directed to those areas of predicted crime. Initial results have been
successful, as non-violent crime has dropped in those areas. Further testing is
being done in a controlled experiment to test the reliability of the results.
n44

    [*268]  A similar experiment is being conducted in Santa Cruz, California.
In Santa Cruz, officers are provided daily "crime forecasts" every morning at
roll call, which direct them to patrol certain designated areas. n45 Each
forecast has a specific prediction - for example, there is a 10.36% likelihood
of a car theft in a particular downtown garage on a particular day. n46 The
times when those car thefts are most likely to occur are also listed. n47 Based
on the research conducted by Professor George Mohler, the predictive policing
algorithm is modeled on seismic aftershock theory and demonstrates that certain
property crimes (again burglary, auto theft, and theft from auto) can be
identified and predicted in small 500-by-500 foot areas. n48 Police officers are
then sent to patrol those areas as part of their regular beats. n49 According to
a Santa Cruz spokesperson, thirteen people have been stopped in the designated
areas in the first six months of the experiment. n50 It is those individuals
stopped within a predicted area that are the subject of this Article. Whether or
not predictive policing works as a matter of crime suppression, it raises Fourth
Amendment challenges for individuals stopped in those areas.

   The Los Angeles and Santa Cruz Police Departments may be ahead of other
cities in testing the predictive policing model, but they are by no means the
only law enforcement agencies using the technique. Jurisdictions as diverse as
Palm Beach County, Florida; n51 Memphis, Tennessee; n52 Chicago, Illinois; n53
[*269]  Minneapolis, Minnesota; n54 and Dallas, Texas, n55 are testing
predictive policing tactics. With federal seed money from the Department of
Justice, other jurisdictions are testing the technology. n56 In addition, cities
with particularized crime problems are using predictive policing to combat those
specific issues. n57

   There are at least three reasons why predictive policing has drawn national
attention and federal financing. n58 First, it is cost-effective in an era of
shrinking municipal and state budgets. n59 Second, it offers promise of a
high-tech,  [*270]  progressive-sounding plan to stop crime, which offers
significant public relations benefits. n60 Third, from early tests in admittedly
small areas, the strategy appears to reduce crime with minimal disruption to
regular policing responsibilities. n61 While the jury is out on the accuracy n62
and cost savings attendant to adopting a predictive policing model, n63 there is
little doubt that adoption of the terminology and the data-driven technology is
growing and will influence police departments, courts, and criminal suspects for
years to come. n64

   A. Predictive Policing: In Context

 Predicting future crime patterns from past crime statistics is neither as
futuristic nor as far-fetched as it might initially sound. In fact, predictive
policing can be viewed as part of an evolution to intelligence-driven policing
techniques that rely on scientifically grounded principles and decades of
criminological theory on crime and place. n65 This section briefly sets out the
[*271]  history, theory, and research studies that support the predictive
policing model. While current models of predictive policing do not purport to be
directly based on these theories, this criminological research informs any
evaluation of its legitimacy as a tool that could have constitutional
consequences.

   1. Intelligence-Led Policing and Theories of Crime and Place

 In recent years, intelligence-led policing has become an influential theory in
the growing study of law enforcement practices. n66 Distinct from other theories
such as "community policing" n67 or the "broken windows" theory of policing, n68
intelligence-led policing focuses on crime data, analysis, and targeted police
efforts in response to that data. n69 Large cities such as New York City, Los
Angeles, and Chicago have embraced crime mapping technologies using objective
crime data to determine police staffing and patrols. n70 Problem areas are
identified through crime statistics, and significant police resources are
directed at those particular areas. n71 As evidenced by a significant drop in
crime  [*272]  rates in these cities, these types of smart-policing tactics have
been widely hailed as successful innovations in the law enforcement community.
n72

   At one level, predictive policing is merely the next iteration of this
intelligence-led policing concept. n73 Analysts have moved from identifying past
crime patterns to predicting the next crime location within that pattern. n74 To
take an easy example, if there are assault arrests every Saturday evening at a
particular bar at closing time, then it would not be difficult to predict that
on a future Saturday night there might be a bar fight at that location.
Stationing a police officer at the door at closing time might prevent future
fights. The theory of predictive policing is that by aggregating all reported
crimes with similar time, place, and crime criteria, important insights into
larger crime patterns in a jurisdiction could be obtained.

   This focus on identifiable places of criminal activity exists within a
well-developed theoretical construct that criminologists have been developing
for decades. It is now generally acknowledged that crime does not randomly
disperse across a geographic area. n75 Instead, crime is clustered in particular
areas that usually can be explained as a function of certain environmental
factors that create vulnerabilities for victims at certain times. n76 These
"hotspots" of crime have been well-documented in academic literature and  [*273]
confirmed by daily police reports. n77 The result is that crime
disproportionately affects certain victims at particular places. n78

   Traditionally, this type of hotspot analysis would involve a retrospective
mapping of crime clusters in a particular area. Reported crimes would be mapped
by coordinates on a searchable computer map, and areas of heightened criminal
activity would be noted. n79 Use of hotspot technology has resulted in some
surprising results. n80 For example, half of the crime in Seattle over a
fourteen-year period could be isolated to only 4.5% of city streets. n81
Similarly, researchers in Minneapolis, Minnesota found that 3.3% of street
addresses and intersections in Minneapolis generated 50.4% of all dispatched
police calls for service. n82 This type of analysis can be broken down by type
of crime and location. Researchers in Boston found that only 8% of street
segments accounted for 66% of all street robberies over a twenty-eight-year
period. n83 Traditional hotspot analysis can also isolate patterns in time of
crime n84 or locations of crime. n85 To be clear, traditional hotspot mapping
does not directly  [*274]  present a theory to predict future crime. Clearly
repeated patterns of localized crime suggest an inference that the environmental
conditions are ripe for future crime, n86 but the identification of hotspots
does not necessarily involve prediction. Predictive policing takes this
traditional retrospective analysis and applies it prospectively.

   Different theories have been posited for why concentration of criminal
activity occurs. Event-based theories like the routine activities theory suggest
that crime is likely to occur "when motivated offenders converge, suitable
targets exist, and capable guardians are lacking." n87 Place-based theories
focus instead on vulnerabilities in the location as the reason for the criminal
activity. n88 These vulnerabilities can include simple factors such as poor
lighting, lack of police surveillance, attractive victims, or easy escape
routes, among many other possibilities. Of course, a place does not create
crime, n89 so more contextual theories have been developed, such as pattern
theory, which examines the "environmental backcloth" n90 as inviting a space for
criminal activity. n91 Other scholars have offered an opportunity theory that
focuses on  [*275]  the availability of criminal targets as the determining
factor for criminal acts, since criminals tend to stay local and look for easy
opportunities. n92

   No matter the chosen theory, the recognition that the risk of crime increases
because of identifiable environmental factors has clear implications for
predictive policing. n93 If police can identify a location of potential crime,
and understand the relevant environmental factors for that predicted crime, then
police can focus their resources on those locations as future problem areas for
police attention. n94

   This insight about place and crime answers a critical question for any
policing theory - in asking why people commit particular crimes at particular
locations, we generate information not only about when they may commit the next
crime but also how to stop it. For example, applying routine activities theory
to a pattern of residential burglaries requires the presence of an offender, a
target, and the absence of a guardian. n95 An offender will target a home or
homes in an area if vulnerabilities exist, such as the absence of law
enforcement, weak structural protections, or a lack of community vigilance. n96
Adding a guardian (a police officer) to the location of those burglaries will
likely remove the vulnerability, decreasing the likelihood of another burglary.
Similarly, the opportunity theory might argue the following:



    Having targeted a particular home for the first time, a burglar acquires
knowledge to inform future targeting decisions. This may concern the internal
layout of a burgled property, the ease of access  [*276]  and escape, the
products that may be found were the offender to return, the risks of
identification, and so on. This knowledge is likely to reduce uncertainty about
nearby homes. n97

 Changing the ease of access or escape or adding uncertainty in the form of
locks, police presence, security lights, etc., may alter the calculus for a
potential opportunity thief. Understanding why people commit the crimes by
understanding the environmental vulnerabilities can affect decisions about how
to stop the next crime before it happens.

   Predictive policing applies these criminological insights in two ways. First,
it recognizes that the past patterns identify an opportunity to ask why. What in
the environment of that space has increased the risk of that particular crime?
Second, by directing law enforcement personnel to that area, the environmental
vulnerability may be removed. By disrupting the routine activities, the pattern,
or the opportunity, police may be able to prevent the next crime. n98 As a pure
law enforcement matter, this disruptive/preventive effect may be the most
important result. Crime may go down simply by establishing a police presence in
an area.

   2. Predictive Models of Crime

 The general theory of crime and place has been refined by scholars who have
looked at different crime patterns as predictors of future crime. n99 This
research gives legitimacy to the theory behind predictive policing, even if the
research is not directed at any formal examination of predictive policing
itself. n100 In time, of course, researchers will evaluate the reliability and
validity of official predictive policing strategies. At this time, however, one
can only look at analogous research studies to examine whether the predictive
policing model offers a reliable and valid method of prediction that will
survive Fourth  [*277]  Amendment scrutiny. As will be discussed in Part IV, if
the predictive methods are not reliable, valid, and transparent, they will not
be able to support the level of suspicion required for a constitutional stop.

   Two representative predictive models are addressed below: near repeat theory
n101 and risk terrain modeling. n102 Both offer sophisticated theories about why
police might be able to predict certain types of crime in certain locations. A
key point in understanding these studies and, thus, the reliability of analogous
predictive models is to identify the limitations inherent in the studies. As
will be discussed, the predictive policing model may only work for certain types
of crimes in certain areas.

   a. Near Repeat Theory

 Near repeat theory seeks to identify and explain the phenomenon that certain
crimes seem to generate repeat criminal activity at the same place. n103 The
theory posits that once a particular location has been subject to a crime, it is
statistically more likely that that location and the close environs will be
subject to additional, similar crime events during a brief time frame after the
initial crime. n104 Residential burglary, automobile theft, and theft from
automobiles share certain characteristics that make reliable prediction more
likely. n105

   Significant research has been done on residential burglary, which has
consistently demonstrated a near-repeat pattern. n106 In the most exhaustive
[*278]  study of ten different jurisdictions across an international spectrum,
residential burglaries showed a near-repeat phenomenon despite different
cultural environments. n107 Specifically, a successive burglary occurred within
100 meters and two weeks of the initial burglary at a statistically significant
rate. n108 Noting the near-repeat studies, one scholar stated, "Burglary
victimization appears to be contagious. In the wake of a burglary, properties
near the victim's property run heightened burglary risks as well." n109 Studies
from England and Canada show that the chance of near-repeat burglary
victimization is four n110 to twelve n111 times higher than a random occurrence.
While not definitive, these statistics show a pattern that might be useful for
predicting future burglaries. n112 In fact, some proponents of predictive
policing argue that with the appropriate technology they can "predict and deter
about 15 percent of burglaries" in a given area. n113

   Two theories have been put forth to explain why the near-repeat phenomenon
occurs in residential burglaries. n114 Flag theory posits that some properties
are vulnerable and "effectively advertise their vulnerability." n115 Flag theory
applied to burglaries means that "burglaries at the same location may simply be
the work of different offenders who respond to similar signals of  [*279]
target attractiveness or accessibility. Attractive opportunities are overtly
flagged for all to see." n116 Boost theory, in contrast, argues that repeat
victimization occurs because some information learned by the original offenders
enhances (boosts) the vulnerability of the home. n117 As one article has
described:



   The rationale ... was that having burgled one property, offenders would
become more familiar with and, consequently, target nearby households. Good
reasons for this hypothesis exist. For instance, houses nearest to each other
are likely to share more features that may inform offender targeting decisions
than those located further away. Such features include access and escape routes,
internal and external architectural layouts, levels of natural surveillance, and
the availability of desirable goods. As already noted, the results of the
studies validated the hypothesis, demonstrating that burglary clusters in space
and time. n118

 One reason for repeat victimization may be simply that it is the same
individuals or gangs committing the crimes. n119 One researcher "found that 76%
of the burglars he interviewed had gone back to a number of houses after a
varying period of time to burgle them between two and five times." n120 However,
the research also suggests that the boost theory may account for the change.
n121 Essentially, certain kinds of crime might be considered communicable, like
a contagious virus that infects not only the particular  [*280]  burglarized
property, but also those in close proximity. n122 In boost theory, information
about an environmental vulnerability spreads and a subsequent crime occurs
because of that spread. n123 If accurate, this type of information can inform
predictive theories and direct police resources to stop the spread of
burglaries. n124

   Two caveats must be mentioned about these studies. First, while other crimes
such as automobile theft n125 and theft from automobiles n126 have been
analogized to residential burglary as having similar near-repeat effects, not
all crime fits this category. Residences are not only fixed, but nearby
residences may share similar designs, demographic factors, transportation
infrastructures, housing density, and lighting issues. n127 Such similarities
may not exist for other crimes. n128 The second limitation in the studies
recognizes the temporal  [*281]  limitation of the near-repeat phenomenon. n129
A consistent finding in the studies was that "a large number of repeat incidents
occur within 1 week of an antecedent, and the risk of repeat victimisation
appears to decay over time." n130 Thus, any predictions of future burglaries
would have to be within this limited window.

   The conclusion from this brief overview is that the near-repeat pattern can
be validated for some types of crime, but has not been for others. In fact, the
very reason why the theory might work for property crimes, such as burglary and
automobile theft, may make it inappropriate to apply to other interpersonal or
violent crimes that are not so place-based. Similarly, while there has been
consistency within the jurisdictions tested, this does not mean that the theory
would hold for all jurisdictions. n131 Finally, it is important to note the
relatively few studies done, and thus there is a justifiable caution about
expanding the findings beyond the carefully controlled study areas.

   b. Risk Terrain Modeling

 A second predictive theory involves what is called risk terrain modeling. "Risk
terrain modeling (RTM) offers a way of looking at criminality as less determined
by previous events and more a function of a dynamic interaction between social,
physical and behavioral factors that occurs at places." n132 RTM identifies
particular risk factors for crime and maps them with a multi-layered computer
mapping system. n133 As described by its creators:



   RTM assigns a value signifying the presence, absence or intensity of each
risk factor at every place throughout a given geography. Each  [*282]  factor is
represented by a separate terrain (risk map layer) of the same geography. When
all map layers are combined in a GIS [Geographic Information System], they
produce a composite map - a risk terrain map - where every place throughout the
geography is assigned a composite risk value that accounts for all factors
associated with the particular crime outcome. The higher the risk value the
greater the likelihood of a crime event occurring at that location. n134

 For example, in analyzing burglaries in Morris County, New Jersey, an RTM map
was created using five variables: "(1) past burglaries, (2) the residential
location of individuals arrested for theft or burglary between 2009 and 2011,
(3) the proximity to major highways, (4) the geographic concentration of males
between the ages of 16 and 24, n135[]] and (5) the location of apartment
complexes and hotels." n136 The result led police administrators to redirect
available police resources to those identified locations and ultimately to an
overall decrease in both general crime and more specifically violent crime and
property crime. n137 By isolating variables that correspond with past crimes and
environmental factors, RTM was able to focus attention on the likely areas of
criminal activity.

   Beyond residential burglary, risk terrain modeling has been applied to
violent crimes, n138 including shooting patterns in Newark, New Jersey n139 and
Irvington, New Jersey. n140 Notably, by applying the theory to interpersonal and
violent crime, RTM has broadened the reach of the predictive policing  [*283]
model. n141 As a comparative academic matter, risk terrain modeling appears to
predict future shooting incidents better than hotspot analysis. n142 As a
practical matter for law enforcement attempting to address what would seem to be
more geographically random types of crimes like shootings, RTM seems to offer
great promise. For example, RTM researchers who studied shootings in Irvington,
New Jersey describe:



   [Research indicates] four risk factors that previous empirical research found
to be correlated with shooting incidents: Gang members; bus stops; schools; and
facilities of bars, clubs, fast-food restaurants, and liquor stores.

   [Risk terrain modeling] ... of places in Irvington that share the locations
and spatial influences of all aforementioned shooting risk factors has high
predictive validity... . For every increased unit of risk, the likelihood of a
shooting more than doubles ... . Stated another way, the likelihood of a
shooting happening at particular 100-foot-by-100-foot places in Irvington during
2007 increases by 143 percent as each additional risk factor affects that place.

   Looked at in a different way ... more than 42 percent of all shooting
incidents occurred in the top 10 percent of the highest risk places during
calendar year 2007 ... . n143

 While there may be some debate about the variables included in the algorithm,
what would otherwise be considered random shootings were actually able to be
predicted to a large degree. n144 While studies are limited and the technology
new, one can see the attraction of this type of innovation that potentially
reduces violent crime, as well as property crime.

    [*284]  Risk terrain mapping for shootings offers two insights similar to
the near repeat theory for residential burglaries. First, some predictions are
focused on the offenders themselves who might engage in repeated or retaliatory
actions. n145 The violent actions occur in a social fabric and patterns of risk
are also communicable as gang reacts to gang, or individuals seek revenge on one
another. n146 Second, some of the reasons for the violence are due to
environmental factors that make those locations more conducive to shootings.
n147

   This summary shows that sophisticated mapping and analysis technologies exist
that may be able to address a broader range of crimes. Jurisdictions may adapt
predictive policing techniques beyond property-based crimes to more complex and
serious violent crimes. The question that remains, of course, is not whether
these analytical models should be used, but whether law enforcement practices
arising from these analyses will be applied consistently with constitutional
rights.

   B. Predictive Policing: Future Cases

 While beyond the scope of this paper, predictive policing models are also being
considered to address other identifiable risk environments. Predictive models
can be used to locate areas for heightened surveillance or to mitigate risk by
removing or altering environmental dangers. n148 In addition, predictive models
are being used to target known human risk factors such as criminal gangs. n149
For example, one study has applied the place-based approach to gangs that also
exist in an established (and usually contested) territorial geographic area.
n150 It has not been determined whether the models hold for  [*285]  these types
of crimes, but some jurisdictions are considering the possibilities. n151

   In addition, one could imagine that predictive policing models could also be
established for individuals, or at least individuals on probation or parole.
n152 In some jurisdictions, predictive evaluations of recidivism are factored
into prison release monitoring. n153 In others, researchers are testing
statistical models for recidivism of pretrial defendants. n154 The question
remains whether one could really predict an individual's future crime without
running into the limitations of a probability-based crime system. As predictive
policing is still just being implemented under a property-based crime model,
this Article does not analyze these future concerns, but merely raises them for
consideration.

   The next Part contextualizes the idea of prediction in the Fourth Amendment
by looking at the various potential theories under which predictive policing
could be analyzed.

   II. Prediction and the Fourth Amendment

 The Fourth Amendment protects against unreasonable searches and seizures,
establishing both a reasonableness requirement and a warrant  [*286]
requirement for most searches, seizures, and arrests. n155 In order to interfere
with a person's Fourth Amendment rights, law enforcement officers must have
either probable cause to search or reasonable suspicion to seize an individual.
n156 To establish that there is reasonable suspicion for a stop, police must "be
able to point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with
rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant that intrusion." n157
Many times determining what is "reasonable" or whether sufficient probable cause
exists in a given case involves a predictive judgment by a judge or law
enforcement official.

   In the search warrant context, a magistrate judge may have to determine
whether "there is a fair probability that contraband or evidence of a crime will
be found in a particular place." n158 That fair probability is a prediction
based on available information. n159 It is always possible that the contraband
will be gone, but there is a prediction that police will find it. n160 The
prediction usually includes a temporal element because information can grow
stale. n161 In addition, it is usually particularized to a specific area or
person to be searched. The controlling standard of probable cause, as the name
suggests, turns on probabilities. n162 Predicting those probable outcomes rests
on predictive guesses about whether the evidence or person sought will be at a
particular location at a particular time. n163

    [*287]  In non-warrant situations, prediction is also a critical element of
analysis. Police officers regularly take action in anticipation of criminal
activity. n164 Stakeouts, ongoing surveillance, and undercover investigations
focus not only on past crimes, but also future crimes. n165 On the street, a
Terry stop based on reasonable suspicion that "criminal activity may be afoot"
is at base a prediction that the facts and circumstances warrant the reasonable
prediction that a crime is occurring or will occur. n166 Again, the controlling
legal standard speaks in terms of predictive considerations. n167 In others
words, to justify a stop, the police have to predict that a person is actively
committing a crime. That prediction comes from the available information, which
in turn involves a judgment about the information's quality, source, and
reliability among other factors. n168 The same temporal and individualized
requirements exist, as does the recognition that sometimes the predictions are
wrong. n169

   As will be discussed in the next sections, this predictive analysis changes
depending on whether the prediction focuses on specific individuals suspected of
crimes, identifiable groups suspected of criminal activity, or areas that
generate criminal activity. n170 Because there are as of yet no reported cases
on predictive policing in the Fourth Amendment context, this Part looks at
possible analogies from which to analyze the constitutional issues. The focus is
to distill principles to analyze the potential issues with predictive policing.
[*288]  First, focusing on prediction of specific individuals, the next section
looks at "tip cases" in which police are provided a predictive tip that an
individual will commit a crime or is committing a crime. The second section
focuses on group suspicion and the use of "profiles" to predict future or
current criminal activity at a location. The third section analyzes the courts'
use of the "high crime area" designation to weigh suspicion in certain
designated areas of predicted criminal activity.

   While none of the analogies fit perfectly, they all independently point to
the same outcome. Predictive policing technologies will alter Fourth Amendment
reasonable suspicion analysis, adding to the totality of circumstances from
which courts can find reasonable suspicion for a seizure. As will be discussed,
following current precedent, predictive policing forecasts will end up being
seen as a "plus factor" to find reasonable suspicion. However, the use of
predictive policing forecasts alone will not constitute sufficient information
to justify reasonable suspicion or probable cause for a Fourth Amendment
seizure.

   A. Tips: Predicting Criminal Activities of Specific Individuals

 Most police investigation focuses on individual suspects. Perhaps police
observation reveals criminal activity, perhaps police receive an informant tip,
or perhaps circumstantial evidence suggests police focus on a particular
individual. No matter the method of investigation, at some point police will
need to interfere with the liberty interests of the individual and, thus, create
a tension with Fourth Amendment protections. n171 Determining the level of
suspicion necessary for a reasonable stop, seizure, or arrest is a predictive
judgment. The legal standards of probable cause and reasonable suspicion are
based on predicting probable outcomes from past information. n172

   To analyze the intersection of prediction and reasonable suspicion, it is
useful to look at the anonymous tip and informant tip cases of the Supreme
Court. As will be discussed, one way to analyze the constitutionality of
predictive policing technologies is to consider the predictive algorithm  [*289]
analogous to a data-driven "tip" that crime will occur. While the analogy is
inexact, one could imagine a parallel situation to the predictive policing
forecast, in which an informant calls police to predict that drugs will be sold
on a certain block at a certain time, or that a particular house will be
burglarized. How courts evaluate that human tip will inform how they might
consider the predictive computer tip.

   1. Anonymous Tip Cases

 The Fourth Amendment requires reasonable suspicion to stop a specific
individual based on a tip. The Supreme Court has stated that "an informant's
"veracity,' "reliability,' and "basis of knowledge' - remain "highly relevant in
determining the value'" of the tip. n173 This legal standard derives from
Illinois v. Gates, the Supreme Court's seminal case on probable cause involving
an anonymous informant. n174

   Gates, like many predictive cases, involved a prediction that certain
contraband would be in the possession of two specific, named individuals who had
been identified through an anonymous letter. n175 In Gates, police had no
information about the informer or the basis of knowledge about the tip, n176
however, many of the details in the tip accurately predicted future events. n177
This corroboration of predicted actions observed by police officers created
probable cause to justify the search. n178 Gates relied on Draper v. United
States, n179 a case that also rested a finding of probable cause on the level of
[*290]  corroborated detail in a predictive tip. n180 In Draper, the anonymous
informant accurately predicted the city, train, and physical and clothing
description of the suspect who was thought to be carrying narcotics. n181 The
Supreme Court reasoned that such detailed predictive information demonstrated
that the informant had inside information about the suspect and the crime and,
thus, the tip was reliable. n182 Both Gates and Draper stand for the proposition
that detailed, individualized prediction corroborated by police observation can
support a finding of probable cause. n183 The predictive judgment of probable
cause is to be considered in a non-technical manner usable by officers on the
street. n184 This analysis also has been adopted to govern the reasonable
suspicion calculus for informant tips. n185

   The Supreme Court has explicitly addressed informant tips and reasonable
suspicion in two major cases, providing both support and establishing limits for
the use of informant tips. First, in Alabama v. White, an anonymous tip that was
corroborated by some predictive details was found to be just enough to establish
reasonable suspicion. n186 In White, police received an anonymous call stating
that the suspect would be leaving a particular apartment at a particular time in
a particular "brown Plymouth station wagon with the right taillight lens broken,
[and] that she would be going to Dobey's Motel, and that she would be in
possession of about an ounce of cocaine inside a brown attache case." n187
Following up on the tip, police observed the brown Plymouth station wagon with a
broken taillight at the correct address and "they followed the vehicle as it
drove the most direct route to Dobey's Motel. When the vehicle reached  [*291]
the Mobile Highway, on which Dobey's Motel is located, Corporal Reynolds
requested a patrol unit to stop the vehicle." n188 Police stopped the car and
searched it with Ms. White's consent. n189

   Following the reasoning of Gates, the Supreme Court found the prediction
detailed enough, timely enough, and individualized enough to justify reasonable
suspicion. n190 The Court focused on the substantial corroboration of the tip:



   What was important was the caller's ability to predict respondent's future
behavior, because it demonstrated inside information - a special familiarity
with respondent's affairs. The general public would have had no way of knowing
that respondent would shortly leave the building, get in the described car, and
drive the most direct route to Dobey's Motel. Because only a small number of
people are generally privy to an individual's itinerary, it is reasonable for
police to believe that a person with access to such information is likely to
also have access to reliable information about that individual's illegal
activities. n191

 The Court emphasized that because there was a low degree of reliability and no
information about the basis of knowledge, such a tip requires more corroboration
to establish reasonable suspicion. n192 In other words, the weak reliability of
the tip has to be compensated for with greater direct corroboration of predicted
details.

   In contrast, the Supreme Court later held an anonymous tip that did not
involve predictive detail or inside information to be insufficient to justify
reasonable suspicion for a stop. n193 In Florida v. J.L., "an anonymous caller
reported to the Miami-Dade Police that a young black male standing at a
particular bus stop and wearing a plaid shirt was carrying a gun." n194 In
response to this tip, "one of the officers approached J.L., told him to put his
[*292]  hands up on the bus stop, frisked him, and seized a gun from J.L.'s
pocket." n195 As the Court acknowledged, while the general description of the
suspect was predicted, "apart from the tip, the officers had no reason to
suspect [J.L.] of illegal conduct. The officers did not see a firearm, and J.L.
made no threatening or otherwise unusual movements." n196 The Court
distinguished White because in White, the "tipster had inside knowledge about
the suspect and therefore [it was reasonable for the police officer] to credit
his assertion about the cocaine." n197 In J.L., the prediction did not mention
criminal action that was corroborated by police observation, and thus the
prediction alone could not justify reasonable suspicion. n198

   Four important principles can be distilled from the Court's reliance on
prediction in the context of anonymous informant tips. First, the prediction
must be individualized not only to a specific person, but also to ongoing
criminal activity of that specific person. Second, the predictive tip must be
corroborated by police observation, which means corroboration of both the
specific individual and the ongoing crime. n199 Third, the predictive value of
the tip turns on the level of particularized detail involved in the prediction.
Fourth, the timing of the prediction matters, as tips must be fresh to be
useful. n200 These themes of individualization, corroboration, particularized
detail, and timing are central to the Fourth Amendment analysis for reasonable
suspicion.

   2. Known Informant Tips

 While focused on anonymous tips, the Court in Gates also recognized that known
informant tips or police informant tips can sometimes be relied upon if there is
a demonstrated history of reliability. n201 As the Court stated:

    [*293]

If, for example, a particular informant is known for the unusual reliability of
his predictions of certain types of criminal activities in a locality, his
failure, in a particular case, to thoroughly set forth the basis of his
knowledge surely should not serve as an absolute bar to a finding of probable
cause based on his tip. n202

 In other words, established reliability can make up for a lack in basis of
knowledge. Thus, the analysis of veracity, reliability, and basis of knowledge
can be more easily evaluated in known informant cases because the reliability of
the informant can be more easily judged. n203 In so holding, the Supreme Court,
in Gates and later cases, recognized that the strength or weakness of a tip
could be balanced by different levels of direct corroboration through
observation. A weak, unreliable tip could be bolstered by more corroboration.
n204 A strong, reliable tip needed less corroboration. n205 This balancing along
a continuum of suspicion could be considered in the totality analysis.

   As will be discussed, predictive policing may be more analogous to a known
informant case. Assuming the predictive policing model is reliable, it may
matter less that the basis of knowledge is difficult to prove.

   B. Profiles: Predicting Criminal Activities Based on Shared Characteristics

 Another predictive Fourth Amendment situation involves a suspicion that a
person sharing certain common characteristics will be committing a crime. Most
easily observed in "profiling" cases, certain shared characteristics or actions
are thought to predict criminal activity in certain areas. Drug courier
profiling, illegal immigration profiling, and group profiling have been
addressed by courts, and they have generally been acknowledged as a relevant
factor to be considered in determining reasonable suspicion. n206 For purposes
of  [*294]  this section, the focus is on how courts have analyzed the
predictive weight of this generalized suspicion in certain areas. n207 In
addition, this section analyzes the use of pure probabilistic analysis for
reasonable suspicion. While courts are reluctant to consider pure probabilities
in evaluating the predictive value of generalized suspicion, there has been
significant academic debate on the issue. Since predictive policing technology
actually establishes a numerical probability that a particular area will be a
place of potential crime, this line of reasoning will be addressed as well.

   1. Profiling as Prediction

 Courts regularly allow generalized suspicion in the form of group-based
identifiers to justify a stop. In a robbery case, individuals who fit the
witness's description of the suspect can be stopped. n208 On a known drug
corner, individuals suspected of participating in a drug buy can be stopped.
n209 At airports, train stations, and buses, people fitting general profiles for
a drug courier can be stopped and questioned. n210 Along the border, individuals
who are suspected of being illegal immigrants can be stopped. n211 Even the
questionable practice of racial profiling can be considered a series of
predictive suppositions that lead to suspicion. n212 As Bernard Harcourt has
observed, "The  [*295]  fact is that the police do not profile on race alone.
They also profile on car models, vehicle attributes, rental cars, stickers,
location, direction, motorist appearance, age, etc. The police use these various
attributes - as well as, possibly, race - to narrow down the pool of likely
suspects." n213 Each of these Fourth Amendment police-citizen stops is based on
a predictive judgment that the individual will be engaging in criminal activity.
As will be discussed, courts have upheld the use of these profiles against
repeated Fourth Amendment challenges. n214

   Most clearly, the Supreme Court has referenced the drug courier profile in
several cases, without directly addressing the constitutionality of the
predictive profile. n215 United States v. Sokolow recognized that a drug courier
profile is not an irrelevant or inappropriate consideration that, taken in the
totality of circumstances, can be considered in a reasonable suspicion
determination. n216 Sokolow involved a young man traveling from Hawaii to
Florida in the summer, with a two-day stay over. He purchased his tickets in
cash and with what appeared to be a fake name. n217 While none of these factors
alone were criminal or suspicious, together they fit a drug courier profile as
established by the Drug Enforcement Agency. n218

   The Court in Sokolow acknowledged the probabilistic basis of the profile, but
it avoided any sustained analysis of what level of probability was required.
n219 As some critics have pointed out, "The government failed to  [*296]
provide empirical proof for its claim that the drug courier profile has reliable
predictive value." n220 Further, others, including Justice Marshall in dissent,
pointed out that even if predictive in the short run, the profiles have
questionable utility since drug couriers will just change their behavior to
avoid suspicion. n221 In other contexts, scholars have challenged the empirical
basis of the predictive value of profiling and found it lacking. n222
Nevertheless, the current law from the Supreme Court and other courts recognizes
that a predictive profile can be a relevant, if not controlling, factor for
reasonable suspicion. n223

   The drug courier profile (and other profiles) exists as an example of
predictive evidence, predicated on the belief that the "probability that a
person who engages in the conduct highlighted by the profile is a drug courier
is higher than the probability for the population at large." n224 As Judge
Charles Becton has acknowledged in his article on drug courier profiling, the
predictive value of profiles combines subjective "clinical predictions" that are
individualized to a particular person with "statistical predictions" that are
based on general formulas with "predetermined characteristics" of generic
individuals. n225 This hybrid model gives significant power to the officers to
[*297]  make not only legitimate individualized judgments, but also illegitimate
arbitrary judgments that can be retrospectively justified by the profile. n226
Because the profile exists and is generalized enough to be manipulated, n227 it
is hard for courts to decide whether the stop is legitimate or not. n228
Further, because the agents control the profile, they can create a
self-fulfilling prophesy by only stopping those who fit the profile, thus
strengthening the seeming validity of the profile even if it does not match the
reality of who is engaged in drug couriering. n229

   2. Predictive Actions

 A less defined category of cases involves profiling certain actions as
predictors of criminal wrongdoing. Flight, evasive action, furtive movements,
hand-to-hand exchanges, and aggressive driving can all warrant suspicion based
on predictive judgments that such actions correspond with ongoing criminal
activity. n230 For situations in which there is an expected criminal activity in
a particular location not because of a profile, but because of generalizations
from past activities, the group trait can help to establish individualized
suspicion. n231 For example, in an area known for weapons offenses, a bulge in a
waistband might be considered a sign of carrying a gun. n232 On a known drug
corner, a hand-to-hand exchange of money for small objects might be indicative
of a drug deal. While this may stretch the concept of prediction a bit far, the
reality is that underlying the suspicion is the prediction of criminal activity.

    [*298]  In each of the cases involving profiling group traits or generalized
activities, several principles can be distilled in evaluating reasonable
suspicion. n233 First, the profile must be particularized enough to distinguish
the profiled individual from the rest of the public. n234 Second, the suspicion
based on a group trait must still be corroborated by direct observation of the
officer. A report that a suspect matched a drug courier profile would not be
useful if the officers did not corroborate that, in fact, the person did match
the profile upon observation. Third, suspicion based on general characteristics
is limited by location. A drug courier profile would not be useful in an area
with no known drug problem, such that the presence of an established drug
problem should be part of the profile. Fourth, the suspicion must be connected
to an identifiable, on-going specific type of crime. It would not be sufficient
to have a general "criminal" profile that covered all types of crimes (even if
some criminals engage in multiple criminal acts). n235 Finally, the profile has
an implicit temporal element in that as criminals adapt to the profile, the
existing profiles must be modified or abandoned. n236

   3. Probabilities as Prediction

 A final related concern may be pure probabilities as predictive judgments.
While the Supreme Court has recognized that the question of reasonable suspicion
deals "with probabilities," it has never relied on a purely probabilistic
analysis for reasonable suspicion. n237 Lower courts have upheld arrest warrants
on DNA matches and other forensic science matches based on pure probabilities,
but there has never been a Supreme Court case in which the probability of crime
explicitly has been used as the sole justification for a stop. n238

    [*299]  This does not mean that the question has not been raised and
addressed in the abstract. As Professor Arnold Loewy posed in an article on the
Fourth Amendment:



   Suppose that in a particular city block of Main Street, between Fourth and
Main and Fifth and Main, it could be established demographically that nine out
of every ten men on the street between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. are carrying drugs.
Would that create probable cause (or reasonable suspicion) to arrest any man
found on that block of Main Street at the requisite hours?

   The answer, I believe, is "no." Probable cause and reasonable suspicion
require more than demographic probabilities. There must be something specific to
the defendant to create the probability as to him (perhaps a furtive gesture, an
informant's tip, excessive nervousness, etc.). n239

 Other scholars might disagree and would hold such a probability is sufficient
to create reasonable suspicion. n240 Real world hypotheticals can easily be
imagined. For example, what if predictive policing technology could be improved
such that on a notorious drug corner the likelihood of a drug sale on a
particular day was 90% or higher? Would the conclusion that police need more
than just the probability hold? n241

   Similarly, what if the probabilities exist but are statistically quite low?
For example, in one reported situation the predictive policing information
provided to the Santa Cruz police officer was that there was a 2.06% probability
of a  [*300]  crime happening that day at a particular location. n242 How should
a court evaluate the predictive impact of this criminal forecast; does a 2.06%
likelihood create reasonable suspicion? Must there be a determined numerical
probability? Such low probabilities may well weigh against a finding of
reasonable suspicion based on the forecast data.

   Finally, there exists the problem of relative probability. As I have argued
elsewhere, in the high crime area context there exists a denominator problem.
n243 Just as "high" is a relative term that requires an understanding of lower
crime areas, drawing lines for predictive probabilities presents similar
problems. If one block is forecast to have a 9% likelihood of burglary, and
another block a 19% likelihood, is the 9% area less persuasive because there are
other higher percentage areas? So far courts have been quite uncomfortable
drawing such lines, but the questions remain.

   C. High Crime Areas: Predicting Criminal Activities in Places

 Considerations of prediction can also be observed in courts' evaluations of the
high crime area factor in reasonable suspicion cases. n244 After Illinois v.
Wardlow, the high crime nature of an area can be considered in evaluating the
officer's objective suspicion. n245 As predictive policing technology seeks to
predict certain areas of higher potential criminal activity, this line of cases
has clear relevance.

   After about thirty years of acknowledged, but imprecise usage, the high crime
area term of art reached its peak in Wardlow, in which it became one of only two
factors considered in a totality of circumstances analysis for reasonable
suspicion. n246 In Wardlow, "high crime area" plus "unprovoked  [*301]  flight
upon noticing the police" resulted in reasonable suspicion to stop Mr. Wardlow.
n247

   The facts in Wardlow point out the questionable use that prediction plays in
many high crime area cases. In Wardlow, a narcotics unit driving in a caravan
observed Mr. Wardlow holding a white opaque bag. n248 Wardlow was standing on a
downtown Chicago street corner at about noon. n249 Upon sight of the police,
Wardlow ran, and when he was stopped a gun was recovered from the bag. n250 The
justification for the stop included the flight in a high crime area. n251 Yet,
as was revealed in the lower court proceedings, the observing officers had no
information about that particular block, or Wardlow, and happened simply to be
riding past the block to another location. n252 In addition, the proof that the
area was, in fact, a high narcotics area was belied by the crime statistics
presented to the courts, including the Supreme Court, which did not include any
narcotics arrest data. n253 While the area in question - Chicago's District 11 -
was a low-income area known for violent crimes, how that information factored
into a predictive judgment about a man holding a bag in the afternoon is not
immediately clear. n254

   More relevantly, even if it could be assumed that the area was objectively a
high crime area, it is not clear how that information would help predict that
Mr. Wardlow, as opposed to any one of the 98,000 people who lived in the
district, was committing a crime (or more specifically a narcotics crime). n255
The prediction of a higher level of criminal activity, or even a higher level of
[*302]  narcotics activity, simply was not corroborated by the actual
observation. In this situation, the high crime area label is more of a
retrospective justification for a stop than a predictive factor. n256

   The Court's flawed reasoning in Wardlow might be unremarkable, except that
there have been thousands of post-Wardlow cases that have relied on the high
crime area designation to determine reasonable suspicion. n257 While a handful
of cases have explicitly wrestled with the predictive value of this label, most
have simply applied it without considering whether it offers any predictive
weight. n258

   Numerous judges and scholars have critiqued the use of the high crime area
designation, almost since its creation. n259 Critics point to its discriminatory
effect on low-income areas and communities of color. n260 Its use has raised
questions of infringements on civil liberties, as well as the stigmatizing
effect on economic development and community-police relations. n261 Some
scholars, myself included, have suggested retiring the high crime area term as
an inexact, overly general term of art that is inconsistent with the existing
crime mapping technology and the Supreme Court's emphasis on particularized
suspicion. n262 While courts routinely use the term high crime area in
considering the totality of circumstances to support reasonable suspicion, there
is less emphasis on why that information is relevant to help predict a
particular crime. As stated, the high crime area in Wardlow - Chicago's District
11 - had  [*303]  a population of 98,000. n263 The predictive value for an
individual among that number of people is negligible. Similarly, the lack of
particularized focus on the type of crime weakens the predictive value of the
information. Had the high crime area been localized to a particular block, or a
particular type of crime, the value of the predictive information would be more
relevant. Some federal and state courts have required this nexus between a
particularized area, crime, time, and the observations of the police officer.
n264 In addition, most of the current predictive policing forecasting programs
seem to embrace the importance of a narrowly tailored area, with a focus on
particular crime-type, and a close temporal proximity. n265 As will be discussed
later, the advent of predictive policing may in fact signal the end of a
generalized high crime area analysis, by replacing it with more precise
technology and terminology.

   D. Principles of Prediction and Reasonable Suspicion

 From the above summary of Fourth Amendment cases, the same themes emerge to
analyze reasonable suspicion. First, no matter the type of predictive
information (tip, profile, or high crime area), the information alone is never
enough to control the reasonable suspicion analysis. In every case, this
information is considered relevant to the totality of circumstances, but must be
corroborated by direct police observation. Second, the predictive information
must be particularized to a person, a profile, or a place, in a way that
directly connects the suspected crime to the suspected person, profile, or
place. n266 Third, the predictive information must provide sufficient detail to
identify or separate the targeted person, profile, or place from others not so
targeted. n267 Finally, the predictive value of the information declines over
time, such that predictive information must be acted on quickly or be lost.

    [*304]  Each of these principles informs the discussion of predictive
policing and reasonable suspicion: the subject of Part III.

   III. Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion

 If crime locations can be predicted, and the current Fourth Amendment doctrine
embraces predictive judgments, then what to make of predictive policing?
Certainly an accurate prediction of a particular crime, in a specific location,
should have some effect on police officers and courts. Whether it be a computer
algorithm or criminological theory, the identification of environmental
vulnerabilities that could be exploited by criminals is a reasonable factor to
consider in evaluating suspicious activity in that area. The question analyzed
in this Part is how to apply current Fourth Amendment concepts to this new
technological innovation.

   Two basic questions exist for any court addressing the effect of predictive
policing on the reasonable suspicion analysis. First, assuming an accurate and
reliable system, is this predictive forecast appropriate to consider in the
totality of circumstances? Second, if so, how does a court analyze the issues
under the Fourth Amendment?

   The short answer to the first question is that it is too soon to evaluate.
The near repeat theories and the risk terrain models, among other variations,
are only now being developed and refined. n268 The underlying theories of
environmental vulnerabilities make logical sense, but whether that logic
translates into accurate crime forecasts will take several years to determine.
Further, how courts interpret these predictive forecasts within the current
Fourth Amendment structure may, in fact, shape the technologies. Judicial
demands for standards of precision, probabilities, and procedures will likely
require the predictive technologies to evolve and improve. n269 Lines will have
to be drawn about probabilities and the predictive reliability of the models
tested. Before this issue of legitimacy is resolved, however, a predictive
policing case may reach a trial court, and that court will have to address the
issue using the existing reasonable suspicion doctrine.

   As to the second question, the existing Fourth Amendment analogies are
imperfect, but informative, in determining how courts might address the effect
[*305]  of predictive policing technologies in a reasonable suspicion
determination. As detailed below, a careful evaluation of the available
analogies cautions against adopting any of them as models for examining
predictive policing. At the same time, revealingly, each of the analogies leads
to the same ultimate conclusion. Predictive policing technologies - if accurate
and reliable - can add to the totality of circumstances for reasonable suspicion
and will have a direct effect on Fourth Amendment liberties. While these
predictions cannot, alone, establish reasonable suspicion (or probable cause)
they may change the balance of suspicion in the forecasted areas.

   A. Predictive Policing as a Data-Driven "Tip"

 As examined earlier, one possible Fourth Amendment analogy for predictive
policing is the tip cases. In this model, predictive policing technologies
provide a non-specific tip about a type of crime in a particular area.

   1. Predictive Policing as an Anonymous or Informant Tip

 The parallels in considering predictive policing as an anonymous or informant
tip are obvious and yet imprecise. n270 Unlike a tip, predictive policing
includes no personal knowledge in its forecast of potential criminal activity.
This is an important distinction that removes predictive policing from the
reasoning of Draper, White, and even Gates, in that there is no "inside"
information that can help evaluate the reliability of the tip. n271

   Further, a predictive policing "tip" is not particularized to an individual.
While a particular block might be identified as being the location of a
particular type of crime, the algorithms, as currently used, are no help in
identifying particular persons suspected. Thus, the core logic of the tip cases
falls away. Because predictive policing does not provide personal knowledge
[*306]  about an ongoing crime, or particularized identification of the suspect
involved, it cannot support the weight of reasonable suspicion. n272

   As such, if considered simply like a tip, a predictive policing forecast
should not support reasonable suspicion to stop anyone on the block just because
there might be a heightened level of potential criminal activity in the area.
n273 First, such a tip is too generalized, lacking the detail required in White
to identify a suspect. n274 Second, it does not identify an actual ongoing
crime, as required by J.L. n275 Third, there is no corroboration as required by
almost all the tip cases. n276 For reasonable suspicion, police would need more
than just the generalized tip, including substantial direct corroborative
observation linking the tip to the individual observed.

   2. Predictive Policing as a Tip About an Area

 The more difficult, and more relevant, example for predictive policing focuses
on when a known informant provides a tip about an area or location. For example,
known informant tips about drug houses, drug corners, or general areas of
criminal activity are commonplace in law enforcement. n277 In these cases,
officers responding to those identified areas have been allowed to rely on the
non-specific predictive tip about an area in their reasonable suspicion  [*307]
calculus. n278 Predictive policing then can be considered like a reliable tip of
generalized information about an area. n279

   Two points need to be emphasized about this second type of generalized tip.
First, traditional application of the totality of circumstances test does not
quite fit. n280 The reason why police might trust a known informant's prediction
of criminal activity is not the same as the reason one might trust a computer
program's prediction of criminal activity. While reliability is key to both, it
is a different reliability. On one hand an objective, well-functioning computer
program seems more reliable than your typical police informant. The computer has
no biases, no past bad acts, and no agendas. On the other hand, the information
in the computer is generalized, and that fact makes it less reliable. By
analogy, if the human informant stated that based on past experience with car
thefts, the informant has a general feeling that a car theft would occur at a
location, most courts would not think this "feeling" would be sufficient for
reasonable suspicion. n281 Even if the informant explained that the past
experiences were regular, recorded, and accurate, the inference that one could
generalize from that experience to future crimes is weak. Most courts would want
more than past experiences, requiring something particular and detailed about
this area now. Again, the reliability turns on the particularized insight about
a specific area at a specific time. A generalized sense, standing alone, would
not be enough.

   While insufficient on its own, this type of reliable, known informant tip, if
corroborated, might result in reasonable suspicion. The key remains the
observations that corroborate the tip. Similar to a police informant who
provides reliable, if generalized, suspicion about a drug house or street
corner,  [*308]  the information can color what a reasonable officer observes,
even if it cannot be reasonable suspicion in itself. In addition, because courts
have recognized that a reliable tip may require less corroboration than an
anonymous tip, n282 if considered more like a reliable informant tip about an
area, then police may actually need less corroboration in their observations.

   This conclusion presents a significant change in how courts could apply the
reasonable suspicion standard. It means that a computer algorithm could alter
Fourth Amendment protections in certain forecast locations. Returning to the
parking garage scenario at the beginning of this Article, the two women could
not have been stopped on reasonable suspicion but for the predictive element of
the analysis. Merely looking into car windows is not sufficient activity to
warrant the reasonable belief that criminal activity is afoot. However, with a
predicted computer "tip" of car theft, it might be. Analyzed carefully, this
conclusion means that the potential for crime in an area can alter the
reasonable suspicion analysis.

   For courts, assuming the reliability and accuracy of the prediction, a
data-driven "tip" may be appropriate to factor into the reasonable suspicion
analysis. While corroboration is still required, predictive policing "tips" may
require less corroboration than other tips and may affect the Fourth Amendment
analysis.

   B. Predictive Policing as Profiling in an Area of Forecast Crime

 A second Fourth Amendment analogy to consider is predictive policing as a form
of profiling. In this analogy, predictive policing technologies would forecast a
"profiled" crime in a certain geographic area, such that anyone in the area who
acted in conformity with certain recognizable characteristics could be stopped
based on reasonable suspicion. Whether considered "profiling" or probabilistic
suspicion of activities in an area, the Supreme Court's acceptance of profiling
helps frame the analysis. n283

   Under current law, profiles of suspected criminal activity in particular
locations for specific crimes appear to be constitutional. n284 The focus here
is on the actions or activities of individuals that match actions or activities
generally  [*309]  considered to be indicative of criminal activity. The profile
includes considerations of activity, place, and general characteristics. For
example, in a residential neighborhood with a burglary problem, a burglar
profile could be created so that otherwise innocent actions - like loitering
with bags large enough to carry contraband, tools, ropes, and gloves (in warm
weather) - could be considered suspicious. Someone acting "like a burglar" on a
particular block within a particular time frame would then be considered the
same as someone acting like a drug courier arriving from a known source city for
drugs. The result would be that profiles of generalized criminal activities
would be used to justify stops of individual suspects if they happen to be in a
predicted area of crime. n285

   Profiling suspicious activities is not new, and it mirrors the daily practice
of police officers who informally have an idea of stereotypical criminal
activity. n286 Labeling it a profile, or merely good police work, may not be
significant. What is significant is that the predictive policing forecast, in
combination with this traditional police observation, will change the Fourth
Amendment calculus for reasonable suspicion.

   For example, in one hypothetical case, a police officer sees a man loitering
on a corner with a large duffle bag looking at a house. Under these limited
facts, a stop based on reasonable suspicion would be difficult to justify. There
is nothing objectively criminal about waiting with a bag. Even if the officer
could say that burglars carry bags and burglars steal from houses, there is not
a fit with anything criminal this man has done. Yet, imagine in a second
hypothetical case a police officer is informed that a specific city block has
had a rash of home burglaries. The predictive policing algorithm predicts that
there is a statistical likelihood of another burglary on that block at this
time. Police are told to be on the lookout for burglars (and are given an
appropriate profile). In this second case, a stop based on reasonable suspicion
would likely be upheld.

    [*310]  Notice that the actions of the man have not changed at all.
Objectively, what the suspect has done is no more or less suspicious or
criminal. Yet the prediction, in combination with a profile of generalized
criminal activity, can change the constitutional analysis.

   Of the two changed elements in the analysis - the prediction and the profile
- arguably the profile is more important. From a purely probabilistic model,
even if the computer model said that there was a very significant likelihood of
a burglary in a particular block, if all the police officer saw was a man on the
street (no bag, no looking at the house), then even a very high probability of
crime would not be enough to justify a stop. The profile, because it serves the
corroborating function of linking the prediction to the individual suspect,
matters more.

   This insight again reveals a common theme in the Fourth Amendment analogies.
Corroboration of individual actions is required for reasonable suspicion. n287 A
profile of a burglar is insufficient standing alone. A prediction of a burglary
is insufficient standing alone. But, together a court might find that under a
totality of circumstances this combination could be sufficient for reasonable
suspicion.

   C. Predictive Policing as a Micro-High Crime Area

 The final Fourth Amendment analogy is to consider predictive policing as
creating a micro-high crime area. As discussed earlier, location in a high crime
area is an accepted factor in the reasonable suspicion analysis. n288 Under
Wardlow and its progeny, the ability to predict a specific area of heightened
potential criminal activity appears to directly impact the reasonable suspicion
analysis. n289

   For example, as practiced in Los Angeles and Santa Cruz, the predictive
policing model has targeted three specific types of property crime and then
focused police attention on 500-by-500 foot areas. n290 Assuming that the
[*311]  predictive analysis is based on past crimes and established crime
patterns, those micro-areas would easily fall within the Supreme Court's
understanding of a high crime area. n291 In fact, those areas - small in size,
responsive to immediate crime patterns, and particularized to a type of crime -
are superior to the rather amorphous definition of a "high crime area"
previously accepted by the courts.

   In analyzing reasonable suspicion, there seems to be little reason why an
officer should not consider the predictive information he or she has been given
before patrolling the streets. n292 The information is objective, verifiable,
and particularized to a certain area about a certain crime, and even temporally
relevant. A court analyzing the reasonableness of the officer's suspicion based
on objective standards should take this information into account. To return to
our burglar example, an officer who stops the man standing with the bag outside
the house, in part, because it was a predicted "high burglary" block is making a
reasonable decision based on the available information.

   Notice, however, again the critical fact in the argument is that there is a
corroborative observation that matches the predicted forecast. n293 If the
predictive policing forecast suggested an area with a heightened pattern of
residential burglary, and the police officer went to the area and observed a
hand-to-hand transaction suggestive (but not conclusive) of a drug deal, the
predictive information would be irrelevant. For the predictive technology to add
any value to the totality of circumstances test, there must be a nexus between
prediction, crime, and observed activity. A disconnect in any of those factors
removes the value of the prediction for reasonable suspicion.

   Finally, the predicted area must be limited in size. For example, if the
predicted area covered an entire neighborhood or police district, then the
predictive relevance of a man holding a bag outside a house is weakened. The
chosen metric of a 500-by-500 foot area appears workable and appropriate.
[*312]  Time is also relevant. If, for example, there had not been a burglary in
six months, the predictive value of the prediction is minimal. n294
Particularized place and time remains critical to a useful high crime area
analogy.

   In many ways predictive policing has the potential to add some discipline to
the rather protean "high crime area" term. Predicted areas may no longer be
generic high crime areas, encompassing tens of thousands of residents (as in
Wardlow), but single blocks with information about particular crimes. With this
available technology, courts may no longer need to rely on the generalized high
crime area terminology when more particularized and more relevant information is
available. As will be discussed in the next section, the precision of the
technology may in fact provide more protection for citizens in broadly defined
high crime areas, while at the same time presenting difficulties for law
enforcement that has gotten used to the generic and easily adaptable term.

   D. The Future of Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion

 A police stop based on a predictive policing forecast soon will be in front of
a trial court in a motion to suppress evidence. The court will need to consider
the effect of predictive policing on the Fourth Amendment. The court will also
have to graft existing Fourth Amendment caselaw on this new technology.

   While courts may take different approaches to the question, no matter the
doctrinal analogy chosen the result is the same. Predictive policing will impact
the reasonable suspicion calculus by becoming a factor within the totality of
circumstances test. While never enough alone, with some relevant corroboration,
a predictive tip will serve as the basis of a constitutional stop. Timing will
matter, as the predictive value of the information decays with time. The
particularized nexus will also matter, as the predicted forecast must match the
observed actions. Yet, as demonstrated, the weight of predictive policing in the
totality has the potential to be significant.

   The fact that predictive policing forecasts can affect constitutional rights
may be more of a symptom of the malleability of the reasonable suspicion
doctrine, rather than signifying any great change that prediction offers. n295
As  [*313]  has been discussed in other contexts, the reasonable suspicion
standard offers less protection than perhaps originally designed, and it has
been further eroded with an ever-evolving totality of circumstances test. n296

   Yet, the fact that a law-enforcement-designed technology can alter liberty
protections in certain areas raises the question of whether the Supreme Court's
reasonable suspicion test is being exploited. If police can define away certain
areas using computer algorithms, or define generalized activities as immediately
suspicious in certain areas, it becomes quite easy to escape what had been a
limiting restriction on police officers. n297 This speaks less to the police and
prosecutors that are fighting crime within the existing legal doctrine than to
the doctrine itself, which may need a counterweight to protect liberty interests
in all areas, including areas of predicted criminal activity.

   IV. Future Concerns with Predictive Policing

 Predictive policing is new and evolving. Definitions, validation studies, and
its effectiveness will be evaluated as the technology matures. Its effect on the
Fourth Amendment may evolve as well, as courts and litigants must pick among the
existing reasonable suspicion precedents for suitable analogies for analysis.
Its impact may, in fact, cause courts to rethink the current overly flexible
approach to reasonable suspicion, based on a concern that this technology could
be manipulated or used in a discriminatory manner.

   This Part addresses some of the main concerns that courts, litigants, and
predictive policing supporters should consider in analyzing the constitutional
impact of predictive policing. The focus here, again, is on the Fourth Amendment
concerns, not the effectiveness of the technology from a law enforcement
perspective. The focus is also on predictive technologies centered on the
property-based near-repeat phenomenon, and not the risk terrain model, because
the former has actually been implemented in law enforcement practice.

[*314]

   A. Understanding the Logic of Why Prediction Works and Its Limits

 Central to the use of predictive policing technologies in Fourth Amendment
cases must be an understanding of why prediction works. Predictive algorithms
are not magic boxes that divine future crime, but instead probability models of
future events based on current environmental vulnerabilities. Creators of those
algorithms understand that the limitations of the predictions rest in the
limitations of the data and the conclusions drawn from the data. n298

   Early adopters of predictive policing technologies have focused primarily on
property crimes for a good reason. The accumulated research data supports the
near-repeat effect for some property-based crimes, and not for other crimes.
n299 If burglaries are contagious then it makes sense to focus police efforts
near the original burglary. If a particular parking lot generates a high volume
of car thefts, it makes sense to focus resources at that location. However, the
reason there will be a future crime is not that there was a past crime. Instead,
the reason there will be a future crime is that the environmental vulnerability
that encouraged the first crime is still unaddressed. This insight is critical
to incorporate into the reasonable suspicion analysis. Prediction should be
irrelevant if the underlying vulnerability has been remediated.

   Litigants and courts must understand these limitations. For example, if a
particular block suffers a statistically high number of car thefts over a month
period, a predictive model might forecast that the same block will be the locus
of a subsequent theft. Blind adherence to the predictive forecast might mean
that an individual observed with a screwdriver on that block, in combination
with the forecast, might result in reasonable suspicion for a stop. However, if
prior to the stop police had arrested the gang responsible for all the prior car
thefts, improved the lighting in the area, and posted police on the street,
reliance on the prediction should be irrelevant. n300 The reason why the future
crime is predicted to happen no longer holds. Incorporating predictive policing
into the reasonable suspicion analysis of the court then would not be
appropriate.

   This insight will require litigants challenging a predictive policing stop to
understand the logic of predictive policing technologies. Legal motions may
[*315]  have to be filed to open up the data or to challenge the underlying
computer models. It requires courts to see the prediction as a comment on the
environmental vulnerabilities that generate crime. It also means that the
environment must remain unchanged (or uncorrected) such that the same
vulnerability exists during the time of prediction.

   As can be observed, timing is important. The near repeat theory incorporates
a natural decay such that the prediction is only valid for a short time span
(one or two weeks). n301 This finding reveals the importance of understanding
the environmental factors. Over time, those factors change and, thus, cannot be
the unthinking basis for a valid prediction.

   The crime type is also important. Programs like risk terrain modeling that
model violent crimes present different challenges than the near-repeat
phenomenon for property crimes. Violent crimes such as robbery might correlate
with environmental factors (isolation, darkness, escape routes, reasons for
being on the street), while violent crimes such as shooting correlate with very
different factors (revenge, gangs, turf borders). Computer algorithms that
predict these latter types of crimes must be based on very different theories of
crime and place, and courts that rely on these predictions must understand the
differences.

   The early adopters of predictive policing have taken a careful approach to
considering the effects of their experiments. Admirably, the coordinators of the
study at the LAPD have looked to conduct-validated studies, with blind testing
and very precise areas, as their model. n302 Researchers developing RTM have
also been intentional in recording, analyzing, and limiting their studies in a
scientific manner. n303 The initial tests, while successful, have been tempered
with an understanding that the methods are experimental and the conclusions
restrained. While there is tremendous interest in expanding the technology, the
[*316]  current predictive policing systems are being conducted in a careful,
reflective, and scientific manner. n304

   Whether this caution will remain as other police departments adopt the
technology is unclear. Further, whether new adopters or courts recognize the
limitations and logic of the technologies is uncertain. A real concern is that
the allure of a magic black box that can predict crime will become divorced from
the underlying logic of why the predictions work in the first place.

   In fact, as can be seen in a review of Part III of this Article, there is
little room in the Fourth Amendment legal analysis to argue the underlying
principles of why prediction works. By the time courts are addressing the issue,
a police officer will have acted on predictive information and arrested an
individual. Blind reliance on the forecast, divorced from the reason for the
forecast, may lead to inappropriate reliance on the technology. In addition to
finding the proper Fourth Amendment analogy, or articulating the reasonable
suspicion factors, courts will have to focus on why certain environmental
factors might contribute to future crime or why the absence of those
environmental vulnerabilities could undermine the logic of the algorithm.
Further, courts will need to remember that predictive policing predicts the
potentiality of a crime and not the crime itself, and, thus, the true test will
be the observation of actual, corroborative criminal activity. n305 Keeping
these issues in the forefront of any reasonable suspicion determination is an
important responsibility for litigants and courts.

   B. Ensuring Reliability, Accuracy, and Transparency

 Underlying the question of legitimacy rests the foundational question of
whether predictive policing technologies are reliable and accurate. Any
data-driven policing system is only as good as the data involved. n306 If the
data collection, recording, analysis, or retention is flawed, then the entire
system is  [*317]  called into question. n307 Prior experience with data-driven
crime mapping systems presents several cautionary lessons for the future of
predictive policing. n308

   1. Reliability and Accuracy

 The first concern rests on the data itself. Predictive policing is based in
large measure on extrapolations from past crime data. However, as has been
well-studied, not all crime is reported, not all crime is recorded, and thus,
not all crime is included in crime databases to be used for predictions. n309
While most murders are reported, not all automobile thefts, petty thefts, or
domestic violence assaults are reported. n310 Further, in areas of high crime
among groups of violent criminals, not all retaliatory acts are reported. Thus,
the precision assumed in a statistical probability may not reflect the accurate
crime numbers. Current predictive policing has focused on burglary and car
theft, two crimes that tend to be reported more regularly (perhaps due to the
fixed nature of the property, or the insurance incentives to report). Predictive
numbers for those types of crimes might be more accurate. However, as
predictions move toward more violent crimes or gang crime, the underlying
reporting percentages need to be reexamined.

   Reporting of crimes must also result in recording of crimes. A police report
does not get entered into the system unless the police officer records it
accurately in terms of date, location, crime type, and time. n311 This means
police paperwork must be accurate, and processes must be in place to make sure
that all reported crimes are entered into the system. This emphasis on accuracy
is not a speculative concern. For example, one of the early adopters  [*318]  of
predictive policing was the Memphis Police Department, which saw immediate
success with its Blue C.R.U.S.H. (Crime Reduction Using Statistical History)
program. n312 Like many predictive policing tactics, the Blue C.R.U.S.H. system
was heralded as a revolutionary breakthrough that reduced the crime rate in the
City of Memphis. n313 However, in 2011, an internal governmental audit
discovered the existence of 79,000 police memos in which potential crimes were
recorded, but not counted in the crime statistics. This trove of documents
called into question the scope of the crime reduction, as many potential crimes
were simply not inputted into the computer system. n314 While the city audit is
ongoing, it may mean an upward revision in the crime statistics and questions
for a much-heralded crime prevention program. n315

   The imprecision of crime reporting and recording does not simply affect the
accuracy of the data, but the underlying focus of resources for law enforcement.
n316 If financial fraud or high-end drug dealing is underreported compared to
car thefts, then a system based on predictive policing and data will focus on
the latter at the expense of the former. One might even be able to predict that
certain areas would be the site of these crimes (such as Wall Street or certain
university campuses), but if not reported, the predictive analysis will never
incorporate this data.

   In addition to accurate reporting, there also must be timely analysis. One of
the lessons of the crime and place studies is that the near-repeat effect decays
quite rapidly. n317 Crime reports must be inputted into the systems in a timely
enough fashion to be useful to officers on the street. This means a move to more
real-time reporting, such that the predictive numbers will change at least
weekly, if not daily, or hourly.

    [*319]  Finally, the algorithms chosen to forecast crimes must be validated,
tested, and submitted for outside study. In general, academic scholars have
developed these algorithms from experiments independent of the world of law
enforcement. n318 As academics are versed in the scientific method, scholars
expect testing and peer validation. This tradition, however, may run into
tension with traditional law enforcement practices of maintaining control and
secrecy over tactical operations. Further, some of the predictive policing
programs are proprietary and opening them for study would decrease the
competitive advantage of those institutions or companies that own the programs.
n319 Adopters of predictive policing technologies will have to balance the
utility of tactical secrecy with the reality that courts and litigants will be
seeking to evaluate the reliability of the programs. Only in this way will the
legitimacy of the technology be accepted for use in courts.

   2. Transparency

 Related to the internal data collection and analysis is the concern of how that
information gets translated to courts and litigants in a court proceeding.
Predictive policing programs will need to be explained to courts in a way that
accurately addresses concerns with data collection, analysis, and the creation
of the probabilities. After all, it will be a judge that agrees or disagrees
with the reliability of the information before it can be included in the
totality of circumstances calculus.

   One can easily imagine the situation described earlier from Santa Cruz, in
which a police officer explains to the court that at roll call he was informed
that a particular block had a 10.6% probability of a car theft for a particular
time, and that is why he stopped a suspect near a car. n320 The questions may
include, "Where did that 10.6% probability number come from?" "How accurate is
it?" "How timely?" "How reliable?" Adopters of the new technologies will need to
have answers that will satisfy the courts in a contested hearing. Metrics for
evaluation will need to be created, and then it will be up to courts to address
the line drawing on a case-by-case basis.

    [*320]  This type of questioning could probably be addressed outside the
courtroom if mechanisms of accountability and transparency were built into the
predictive policing systems. Independent oversight boards, audits, and other
methods to test and retest the data collection and analysis may be needed. n321
Regulations, standards, and best practices will have to be developed and
disseminated. Litigants will need to know about internal processes and be able
to compare them to other systems in other jurisdictions. This will mean allowing
access into the systems, as well as limiting some of the proprietary or secrecy
arguments mentioned above. All of these improvements in transparency will be
needed for public oversight of these new public safety initiatives.

   These issues have been recognized by some of the early adopters of predictive
policing. The LAPD pilot program has, for example, developed a blind control
test to see the effect of its program, and this pilot project is being overseen
by academics trained in the scientific method. n322 In addition, the LAPD model
has been designed to avoid the "self-fulfilling prophecy" concern that
predictions will lead to arrests, which will lead to additional predictions in
the same area. n323 To remedy this problem, the LAPD model looks at a three-year
period of crimes, and does not over-value recent arrests into the model. n324
This pilot program was designed with accountability and transparency in mind,
and should likely be a model not just for effectiveness, but also for a process
of openness in developing these programs. As the programs expand across the
country, adopting these control mechanisms may be equally as important as
adopting the technology.

[*321]

   C. Hard Cases

 Predictive policing may well become an effective tool for law enforcement. Yet,
the technology will also create tension for police in defending Fourth Amendment
challenges by defendants. Most notably, by defining particular areas of high
crime down to the block, police are also implicitly demarcating other areas as
not predicted areas of heightened criminal activity. n325 This move changes how
police and prosecutors will be able to rely on the generic high crime area
designation. As there have been thousands of reported cases involving a high
crime area, the number of potential cases implicated by this change is
significant. n326

   For example, assume police are dispatched to a predicted block of heightened
car theft. Following the map in front of them, the police set up surveillance
for the forecast crime. Nothing happens, and after a while, the police drive
off. Two blocks away, the police see a young man with a screwdriver standing
near a parked car. At that moment, the police are no longer in the predicted
area. While subjectively the police are no doubt influenced by the concern of
car thefts in the general area, and objectively such a concern might be
reasonable, the forecast does not cover that block. It is not a micro-area of
heightened crime. The man does not fit the "profile plus activity" model. The
"tip" is for the wrong area. So, assuming the officers go ahead and stop and
search the young man, the predictive profiling model works against the officers
for Fourth Amendment purposes. The officers cannot rely on the forecast. While
the officers' common sense response is probably, "Come on, we were just two
blocks away," the move from a predicted area of particular crime to a generic
and undefined high crime area might actually weaken the justification to stop.

   A similar problem may arise when the predictive model suggests that one type
of crime will occur, and an observing officer sees suspicious activity of
another type of crime. As discussed, the logic of the prediction is based on
certain types of crimes. n327 Further, the logic of the relevance of the stop is
based on the nexus between prediction and observation. Yet, one can easily
imagine that the stakeout for a residential burglary will result in the  [*322]
observation of a suspicious activity unrelated to burglary. Whereas in the past,
an officer could finesse the difference by alluding to the high crime nature of
the neighborhood, now the precision of predictive policing might undercut that
argument.

   A final example might involve the problems with statistical probabilities.
One of the consequences of developing a sophisticated crime prediction model is
that the predictive percentages will be available for all to see. A police
officer who used to be able to state in a suppression hearing, "I was patrolling
a high theft area, one of the top areas for car thefts in the city," now might
be faced with justifying whether a 10.6% likely prediction as directed by an
algorithm is sufficient to change the reasonable suspicion calculus. Or, as
described earlier, an officer may be faced with arguing that a 2.06% increase is
statistically significant. n328 In the traditional situation, most trial judges
would take on good faith the officer's generalized professional judgment. With
the statistics, however, now the court can evaluate the probabilities on its
own, and it may reach a contrary conclusion.

   In each of these cases, the court may well limit the often-malleable
reasonable suspicion doctrine. Hard data has a way of hardening previously fuzzy
judgment calls. To be clear, in the above examples courts may still choose to
keep both the high crime area designation and the predictive forecast as
separate and independent bases for reasonable suspicion. But, a new reliance on
precise, real-time crime statistics is going to undercut the utility of the old
overbroad designation. While this may be a positive development, it is a
consideration that adopting jurisdictions may want to consider.

   D. Discriminatory Use or Discriminatory Effect

 A concern with all law enforcement technology is that it could be used in a
discriminatory fashion. On its face, objective data-driven police tactics should
reduce, not increase, the discriminatory effect of certain police tactics.
However, as can be seen in a few real-world examples, data-driven law
enforcement can have a disproportionate effect on certain communities that
perceive it as discriminatory.

    [*323]  The New York City Police Department has led the nation in its
implementation of a data-driven law enforcement model. n329 The adoption of the
COMPSTAT program led to a dramatic drop in crime in New York City. n330 At the
same time, numerous complaints arose both about the pressures to collect data
(make arrests), as well as its impact on certain communities. n331 Currently,
New York City is being sued by citizens over the use of "stop and frisk"
policies that are largely focused on certain communities. n332 The numbers are
striking as over half a million citizens were stopped and frisked every year for
the last few years. n333 Most of those citizens were people of color. n334

   Whether data-driven or not, the focus on particular communities?usually poor
and usually communities of color?has created concerns about constitutional
equities. While all citizens would like reduced crime, for citizens in higher
crime areas the costs of that reduction in terms of police-citizen tension,
liberty infringements, and occasional physical violence have not always been
squarely balanced. n335 In addition, constitutional freedoms to assemble,
travel, and participate are at stake. In theory, predictive policing should
improve these tensions because the focus is on single blocks, not neighborhoods,
and particular crimes, not general neighborhood reputation. In addition, if the
strategy is merely to direct police to higher areas of crime in  [*324]  order
to disrupt the environmental vulnerability (and not arrest anyone), then this
innovation may decrease rather than increase police-citizen tension.

   On the other hand, one could imagine potential discrimination if certain
groups were targeted using predictive technologies. While gangs are an obvious
and oft-stated target of future use, one could see how predictive forecasts of
gang criminal activities, coupled with corroboration of gang presence in an
area, could result in an automatic finding of reasonable suspicion to stop gang
members on the street. While perhaps not the most sympathetic figures for
protecting Fourth Amendment freedoms, such police-made manufacturing of
reasonable suspicion also runs counter to existing constitutional law. n336

   E. Courtroom Effect

 As a final matter, courts should consider the practical effect of allowing
predictive policing programs to influence the reasonable suspicion analysis in
court. Independent of concerns with reliability, accuracy, or potential
manipulation, there is a separate issue with allowing law enforcement to control
the factors that make up reasonable suspicion. As seen in the creation of
profiles, or the claim of suspicion based on presence in a high crime area, a
malleable reasonable suspicion test offers little protection from a police stop.

   The concern with adding a prediction model to an already weakened reasonable
suspicion standard is that one factor can control the totality of circumstances
in finding reasonable suspicion. The prediction, because it comes from an
objective source, will color the subjective suspicion of the officer and the
ultimate objective decision of the court. In practical application, it will be
difficult for a court to discount the weight of some objective support for the
officer's suspicion. To allow predictive policing such influence without
mechanisms of accountability for the data and analysis, and without full
transparency, may result in a troubling lack of protection for individuals who
end up in the forecasted areas. n337

   This concern should inspire courts to take a more active role in ensuring
that the predictive policing models work and can be evaluated. This will result
[*325]  in new battles over discovery, expert reports, and line drawing about
the predictive validity of the claims. This development is to be expected and
welcomed as a natural course of new technologies being introduced into
courtrooms.

   Conclusion

 In the future, predictive policing will affect the Fourth Amendment reasonable
suspicion analysis. How it affects it and whether these changes weaken or
strengthen Fourth Amendment protections remains unclear. This Article has
attempted to provide a framework for analysis for developers of the technology
as well as courts struggling to interpret the consequences of the technology.
Only by understanding the criminological traditions of crime and place and
predictive themes in the Fourth Amendment doctrine can courts adequately assess
the technology and its impact.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsSearch & SeizureProbable
CauseCriminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesFraudComputer FraudGeneral
OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureSearch & SeizureSearch WarrantsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  A National Interoperable Broadband Network for Public Safety: Recent
Developments: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Commc'ns, Tech., & the Internet of
the H. Energy & Commerce Comm., 111th Cong. 20 (2009) (statement of William J.
Bratton, Chief, Los Angeles Police Department).





n2.  Guy Adams, The Sci-Fi Solution to Real Crime, Independent (London), Jan.
11, 2012, (World), at 32; Joel Rubin, Stopping Crime Before It Starts, L.A.
Times, Aug. 21, 2010, at A1; Christopher Beam, Time Cops: Can Police Really
Predict Crime Before It Happens?, Slate (Jan. 24, 2011, 6:06 PM), http://www.
slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/crime/2011/0 1/time_cops.single.html;
Weekend Edition Saturday (National Public Radio broadcast Nov. 26, 2011),
available at
http://www.npr.org/2011/11/26/142758000/at-lapd-predicting-crimes-before-they-ha
ppen (discussing predictive policing in Los Angeles); see also Andrew Guthrie
Ferguson, "Predictive Policing" and the Fourth Amendment, Am. Crim. L. Rev. Blog
(Nov. 28, 2011, 11:25 PM),
http://www.americancriminallawreview.com/Drupal/blogs/blog-entry/"
predictive-policing"-and- fourth-amendment-11-28-2011.





n3.  Weekend Edition Saturday, supra note 2.





n4.  See id.





n5.  See id. The software used by the LAPD and the Santa Cruz Police Department
was developed by Professors George Mohler, Jeffrey Brantingham, Martin Short,
and George Tita. Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y.
Times, Aug. 16, 2011, at A11.





n6.  Rubin, supra note 2. The idea behind predictive policing preemptive
enforcement using crime data was named one of Time's 2011 Fifty Best Inventions
of the Year. Lev Grossman et al., The 50 Best Inventions of the Year, Time, Nov.
28, 2011, at 55, 82 (discussing preemptive policing).





n7.  Goode, supra note 5.





n8.  Id.





n9.  Id.





n10.  See Tessa Stuart, The Policemen's Secret Crystal Ball, Santa Cruz Wkly.,
Feb. 15, 2012, at 9 (arguing that "the two women from The New York Times article
were first stopped because they were in violation of a municipal code called the
parking lot trespass law").





n11.  See, e.g., United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 274 (2002) (requiring
more than a mere hunch for a police stop); see also Albert W. Alschuler, The
Upside and Downside of Police Hunches and Expertise, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 115,
122-23 (2007).





n12.  See infra Part IV.





n13.  In both Los Angeles and Santa Cruz, the formal rollout of the predictive
policing experiment is not even a year old. As such, the results, while
positive, are preliminary. See Goode, supra note 5; Josh Koehn, Algorithmic
Crimefighting, SanJose.com (Feb. 22, 2012),
http://www.sanjose.com/news/2012/02/22/sheriffs_
office_fights_property_crimes_with _predictive_policing ("During the first half
of 2011, Zach Friend, a spokesman for the Santa Cruz Police Department, says
that after using its predictive policing algorithm, the department reported a
drop in property crimes ranging somewhere between 4 and 11 percent.").





n14.  Predictive policing has been featured in the New York Times, made the
front cover of Popular Science, and drawn national and international interest.
Goode, supra note 5; Popular Sci., Nov. 2011; see also Beam, supra note 2 ("In
November 2009, the National Institute of Justice held a symposium on "predictive
policing,' to figure out the best ways to use statistical data to predict
micro-trends in crime."). In addition, the federal government, through the
Justice Department, has sponsored millions of dollars of research grants on the
subject. Id.





n15.  See infra Part III.





n16.  United States v. Grubbs, 547 U.S. 90, 95 (2006).





n17.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30 (1968) (allowing police to stop a
suspect based upon a conclusion "that criminal activity may be afoot").





n18.  Terry, 392 U.S. 1.





n19.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 268 (2000); Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325,
330 (1990).





n20.  United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1 (1989).





n21.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123-25 (2000).





n22.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 238 (1983).





n23.  See infra Part IV.





n24.  See infra Part II.





n25.  See Stephen Baxter, Modest Gains in First Six Months of Santa Cruz's
Predictive Police Program, Santa Cruz Sentinel (Feb. 26, 2012, 4:59:09 PM),
http://www.santacruzsentinel.com/ci_20050377 ("From the program's start in Santa
Cruz in July 2011 to Jan. 1, 2012, car burglaries and residential burglaries
declined by 4 percent compared with the same period a year earlier, according to
Santa Cruz crime analyst Zach Friend. Vehicle thefts remained about the same.
"The goal of the program has not been to arrest people, it's to deter and
prevent crime from occurring,' Friend said. Having said that, there were roughly
13 suspects arrested during predictive police patrols.").





n26.  See generally Spencer Chainey & Jerry Ratcliffe, GIS and Crime Mapping 8
(2005); Keith Harries, Nat'l Inst. of Justice, Mapping Crime: Principle and
Practice 92-94 (1999); Derek J. Paulsen & Matthew B. Robinson, Crime Mapping and
Spatial Aspects of Crime 154 (2d ed. 2009); Luc Anselin et al., Spatial Analyses
of Crime, in 4 Criminal Justice 2000, at 213, 215 (2000).





n27.  United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 418 (1981) (observing that the
question of reasonable suspicion deals "with probabilities").





n28.  See infra Parts II, III.





n29.  Craig D. Uchida, Nat'l Inst. of Justice, No. NCJ 230404, A National
Discussion on Predictive Policing: Defining Our Terms and Mapping Successful
Implementation Strategies 1 (2009) (emphasis omitted).





n30.  As will be discussed infra, the parallel between police hunches and
computer forecasts is central to determining an appropriate Fourth Amendment
analogy.





n31.  Beth Pearsall, Predictive Policing: The Future of Law Enforcement?, Nat'l
Inst. Just. J., June 2010, at 16, 16 ("Predictive policing, in essence, is
taking data from disparate sources, analyzing them and then using results to
anticipate, prevent and respond more effectively to future crime.").





n32.  In its 2009 call for proposals on "predictive policing models," the
Department of Justice's National Institute of Justice included several specific
targets within the broad category, including: (1) "statistical analysis to
forecast Compstat-like performance"; (2) "advanced statistical models to
determine the risk of offending or victimization of particular individuals or
groups to inform suppression, problem-oriented, or community policing methods of
intervention"; (3) "advanced analytical tools, including social network analysis
tools and intelligent decision support systems for use in investigation to
determine nonobvious relationships among suspects, victims, and others or to
visualize criminal incidents and relationships"; (4) "geospatial tools to
analyze trends including demographics, land use, income, and other sources to
predict future needs for allocation of police resources"; and (5) "crime
prediction models that use a variety of input variables and that can be used to
inform city or neighborhood planning activities to promote long-term public
safety outcomes and benefits." Nat'l Inst. of Justice, Dep't of Justice, SL No.
000877, Solicitation: Predictive Policing Demonstration and Evaluation Program 6
(2009).





n33.  Koehn, supra note 13 (""The most common time [vehicle and residential]
crimes were occurring were Tuesdays and Thursdays between 5pm and 8pm,' says
Damon, who works out of a sheriff's office substation in Cupertino. "We put
together hot spots and victim profiles to give officers an idea what to look
for. In May of 2010, we started seeing a significant decrease. It was pretty
immediate once we got our patrol units in the right place at the right time.' As
a result, from 2010 to 2011, property crimes in the West Valley patrol area for
the sheriff's office - Cupertino, Saratoga, Los Altos and unincorporated zones
that include parts of Los Gatos - dropped 23 percent." (alteration in
original)).





n34.  See infra Part I.A.1.





n35.  Leslie W. Kennedy et al., Risk Clusters, Hotspots, and Spatial
Intelligence: Risk Terrain Modeling as an Algorithm for Police Resource
Allocation Strategies, 27 J. Quantitative Criminology 339, 345-46 (2011) ("The
Newark Police Department maintains an extensive Geographic Information System
(GIS) encompassing numerous data layers. The digitized fields include Part I
crime incidents, officer activity (such as arrests and summonses), persons of
interests (e.g. "Known Burglars' and "Confidential Informants'), locations of
interest (e.g. "Gang Territory'), and business/retail establishments and
infrastructure (e.g. Public Housing and Liquor Stores)."); see also Brigitte
Gassaway et al., Engaging the Community: Operation Heat Wave, Geography & Pub.
Safety, Oct. 2011, at 8, 9.





n36.  Tom Casady, Police Legitimacy and Predictive Policing, Geography & Pub.
Safety, Mar. 2011, at 1, 1.





n37.  See Jie Xu et al., Rutgers Ctr. on Pub. Sec., Crime Generators for
Shootings in Urban Areas: A Test Using Conditional Locational Interdependence as
an Extension of Risk Terrain Modeling 1 (2010) (examining the "spatial
distribution effects of certain urban features (specifically, bus stops, middle
and high schools, and public housing) acting as "generators' of gun shootings"
in two jurisdictions: Newark and Irvington, New Jersey).





n38.  Jeffrey S. Paul & Thomas M. Joiner, Integration of Centralized
Intelligence with Geographic Information Systems: A Countywide Initiative,
Geography & Pub. Safety, Oct. 2011, at 5, 7 ("Geographic profiling gives the
ICTF [Intelligence Crime Task Force] the ability to use heuristic algorithms to
delineate specific regions that have higher probabilities of containing an
offender's residence, place of employment, or leisure space. From these
probabilities, we prioritize these areas and develop a list of likely suspects
based on the GIS data that falls within our search radius.").





n39.  Rubin, supra note 2 ("For patrol officers on the streets, mapping software
on in-car computers and hand-held devices would show continuous updates on the
probability of various crimes occurring in the vicinity, along with the
addresses and background information about paroled ex-convicts living in the
area.").





n40.  Weekend Edition Saturday, supra note 2; see also Adams, supra note 2;
Rubin, supra note 2; Beam, supra note 2.





n41.  See generally Adams, supra note 2; Rubin, supra note 2; Beam, supra note
2; Weekend Edition Saturday, supra note 2. The genesis of the applied predictive
policing research arose from the work of Jeffrey Brantingham (UCLA), George
Mohler (UC Santa Cruz), and George Tita (UC Irvine) who collaborated on the
technological architecture now being applied in both Santa Cruz and Los Angeles,
California. See E-mail from Jeffrey Brantingham, Professor, Dep't of
Anthropology, Univ. of Cal. L.A., to author (Mar. 26, 2012) [hereinafter
Brantingham E-mail] (on file with author).





n42.  Rubin, supra note 2, at A17; see also E-mail from Sean Malinowski,
Captain, L.A. Police Dep't, to author (Feb. 9, 2012) [hereinafter Malinowski
E-mail] (on file with author).





n43.  Adams, supra note 2; Malinowski E-mail, supra note 42.





n44.  Adams, supra note 2. The LAPD experiment involves a double-blind
randomized control model. See Brantingham E-mail, supra note 41.





n45.  Stuart, supra note 10.





n46.  Id.





n47.  Baxter, supra note 25 ("In July, the Santa Cruz Police Department became
the first law enforcement agency in the nation to implement a predictive
policing program. With about eight years of data on car and home burglaries, an
algorithm predicts locations and days of future crimes each day. Police are
given a list of places to go to try to prevent crime when they were not
responding to calls for service.").





n48.  Id.; see also G. O. Mohler et al., Self-Exciting Point Process Modeling of
Crime, 106 J. Am. Stat. Ass'n 100, 100-01 (2011); Stuart, supra note 10.





n49.  Stuart, supra note 10, at 13-14.





n50.  Baxter, supra note 25; see Kalee Thompson, The Santa Cruz Experiment,
Popular Sci., Nov. 2011, at 38, 50 ("By the end of July, [early results of the
LAPD test showed] property crime was down 27 percent from the year before, an
impressive drop, especially given the 25 percent rise in the first six months of
the year. What's more, seven criminals had been discovered inside the hot
spots."); Koehn, supra note 13.





n51.  Jerome Burdi, Police Looking to Predict Crimes in Palm Beach County, Palm
Beach Sun Sentinel (Oct. 30, 2011),
http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2011-10-30/news/fl-predictive-policing-
20111030_1_violent-crime-police-stake-police-agencies ("Predictive policing is
among the initiatives under study by the Palm Beach County Law Enforcement
Exchange Program, a countywide effort to share data among police agencies. The
program could be underway next year.").





n52.  Andrew Ashby, Operation Blue C.R.U.S.H. Advances at MPD, Memphis Daily
News (Apr. 7, 2006),
http://www.memphisdailynews.com/editorial/Article.aspx?id=30029 ("Operation Blue
C.R.U.S.H. (Crime Reduction Using Statistical History) involves using mapping
and statistical information to target crime hot spots and chronic perpetrators.
"It's putting the right people in the right places on the right day at the right
time,' said Dr. Richard Janikowski, an associate professor in the Department of
Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Memphis."); Burdi, supra
note 51 ("John F. Williams, crime-analysis manager for Memphis police, said the
city was plagued by violent crime until its predictive-policing technology,
nicknamed Blue Crush, came online. Since then, crime is down 30 percent, he
said.").





n53.  News Briefs: Chicago Police Department Adopts Predictive Crime-Fighting
Model, Geography & Pub. Safety, Mar. 2011, at 14, 14 ("In April 2010, the
Chicago Police Department began piloting a crime prevention strategy called
predictive analytics."); Burdi, supra note 51 (noting that Memphis, Chicago,
Edmonton, British Columbia, and Northern Ireland now use predictive policing).





n54.  Matt McKinney, The Next Crime, Star Trib. (Minneapolis), Jan. 23, 2011, at
1A (describing the predictive policing units in Minneapolis).





n55.  Gassaway et al., supra note 35, at 8 ("TAAG [Targeted Area Action Grids]
areas are geographic hot spots within the city where conditions are favorable
for crime to occur. Twenty-seven areas have been identified and represent
approximately 7% of the city, or about 26 square miles, and have about 30% of
the total Part I crimes. The model uses a multivariate method that improves the
forecasting effectiveness of geographic information systems (GIS) compared to
conventional or retrospective mapping methods because it looks at more than just
crime. The variables or indicators themselves do not create crime; they simply
point to locations where, if the conditions are right, the likelihood of
victimization and criminal behavior increases. The TAAG areas produced will
assist in strategic decision making and tactical action by showing where
conditions are favorable for crime to occur in the future.").





n56.  Vince Beiser, Forecasting Felonies: Can Computers Predict Crimes of the
Future?, Pac. Standard, July/Aug. 2011, at 20.





n57.  David Alan Sklansky, The Persistent Pull of Police Professionalism 8-9
(2011), available at http://www.hks.harvard.edu/var/ezp_site/storage/fckedito
r/file/pdfs/centers-programs/programs/criminal-justice/ExecSessionPolicing/NPIP-
ThePersistentPullofPoliceProfessionalism-03-11.pdf ("One commonly cited example
of predictive policing is the "data mining' that police in Richmond, Va.,
employed to address the problem of gunfire on New Year's Eve. Categorizing each
complaint of gunfire by time and location, the police discovered that most of
the shots occurred in four neighborhoods during a narrow time window around
midnight on December 31. By concentrating its patrol officers in those areas and
that time window, the department was able to reduce gunfire complaints, boost
seizures of weapons and cut overtime expenses. Backers of intelligence-led
policing and predictive policing can sometimes be dismissive of the old "dots on
a map' style of analysis, but this amounted to dots on a map and on a timeline.
As the consultant who helped the Richmond Police Department devise its new
strategy points out, "this wasn't complicated at all; this was just simple
descriptive statistics.'" (alteration in original) (footnotes omitted));
Pearsall, supra note 31, at 17 (discussing innovations in Richmond, Virginia).





n58.  A predictive policing summit was held in November 2009. Pearsall, supra
note 31, at 16.





n59.  Charlie Beck & Colleen McCue, Predictive Policing: What Can We Learn from
Wal-Mart and Amazon About Fighting Crime in a Recession?, Police Chief, Nov.
2009, at 18, 18 ("Predictive policing allows command staff and police managers
to leverage advanced analytics in support of meaningful, information-based
tactics, strategy, and policy decisions in the applied public safety
environment. As the law enforcement community increasingly is asked to do more
with less, predictive policing represents an opportunity to prevent crime and
respond more effectively, while optimizing increasingly scarce or limited
resources, including personnel."); id. at 20 ("Risk-based deployment supports
the optimization of public safety resources and assets, including personnel."
(footnote omitted)).





n60.  Sklansky, supra note 57, at 9 ("Part of the reason technology tends to be
over-hyped is that there is money to be made from selling it. Another part of
the reason is simply that gear and gadgets are sexy: shiny video screens,
interactive maps, and "mathematical prophesy' have allures that are not shared
by, say, a poorly attended community meeting in a church basement." (footnote
omitted)).





n61.  Paul & Joiner, supra note 38, at 5, 7 ("This proactive approach has led to
successful results in Morris County. Since 2007, the total crime index in the
county has decreased by 11%, violent crime by 21%, and property crime by 7%.").





n62.  Kate J. Bowers & Shane D. Johnson, Who Commits Near Repeats? A Test of the
Boost Explanation, W. Criminology Rev., Nov. 2004, at 12, 21 ("Prospective
mapping is significantly more accurate than extant methods, correctly
identifying the future locations of between 64%-80% of burglary events for the
period considered."); see Beck & McCue, supra note 59, at 19 ("With new
technology, new business processes, and new algorithms, predictive policing is
based on directed, information-based patrol; rapid response supported by
fact-based prepositioning of assets; and proactive, intelligence-based tactics,
strategy, and policy. The predictive-policing era promises measureable results,
including crime reduction; more efficient police agencies; and modern,
innovative policing.").





n63.  See Pearsall, supra note 31, at 17 ("George Gascon, chief of police for
the San Francisco Police Department, noted that predictive policing is the
perfect tool to help departments become more efficient as budgets continue to be
reduced. "With predictive policing, we have the tools to put cops at the right
place at the right time or bring other services to impact crime, and we can do
so with less,' he said.").





n64.  See Sklansky, supra note 57, at 3 ("The newest approaches to policing
pushed by the federal government are "intelligence-led policing' and "predictive
policing.' ... Like intelligence-led policing, predictive policing has been
proclaimed "the next era in policing' ... ." (footnotes omitted)).





n65.  See Nina Cope, "Intelligence Led Policing or Policing Led Intelligence?':
Integrating Volume Crime Analysis into Policing, 44 Brit. J. Criminology 188,
191 (2004) ("Analysis converts raw information into actionable intelligence by
seeking patterns in crime data, linking criminal events or constructing detailed
suspect profiles."); O. Ribaux et al., Forensic Intelligence and Crime Analysis,
2 L. Probability & Risk 47, 48 (2003) ("The evolution of policing strategies and
new technologies has dramatically increased the role of intelligence in law
enforcement agencies."); id. at 54 ("A combination of exploratory, statistical
and visualization methods helps reveal patterns in large quantities of
information. The information itself is an integration of a broad variety of data
representing for example crime incidents, physical environments, socio-economic
and demographic features of a population, or physical traces.").





n66.  See Sklansky, supra note 57, at 3 ("Intelligence-led policing - trumpeted
by its supporters as a "new paradigm in policing,' "rapidly growing' into a
"worldwide movement' - emphasizes the use of intelligence collection and data
analysis to guide the selection and implementation of police policies."
(footnote omitted)); Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 358 ("Problem Oriented
Policing relies on intricate "scanning' and "analysis' of crime problems in the
development of strategies and stresses rigorous "assessment' of program
impact.").





n67.  Debra Livingston, Police Discretion and the Quality of Life in Public
Places: Courts, Communities, and the New Policing, 97 Colum. L. Rev. 551, 562-63
(1997).





n68.  Bernard E. Harcourt & Jens Ludwig, Broken Windows: New Evidence from New
York City and a Five-City Social Experiment, 73 U. Chi. L. Rev. 271, 276 (2006);
James Q. Wilson & George L. Kelling, Broken Windows, Atlantic, Mar. 1982, at 29.





n69.  See Sklansky, supra note 57, at 3 ("Like intelligence-led policing,
predictive policing puts intelligence collection and data analysis at the center
of police decision-making, emphasizing "directed, information-based patrol;
rapid response supported by fact-based pre-positioning of assets; and proactive,
intelligence-based tactics, strategy, and policy.'").





n70.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson & Damien Bernache, The "High-Crime Area" Question:
Requiring Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth Amendment Reasonable
Suspicion Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1627 & n.251 (2008) (noting that
many cities, including Los Angeles and Chicago, utilize crime mapping
technologies); James J. Willis et al., Making Sense of COMPSTAT: A Theory-Based
Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police Departments, 41 Law & Soc'y
Rev. 147, 148, 172 (2007) (noting that New York utilizes crime mapping
technologies).





n71.  See generally Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Crime Mapping and the Fourth
Amendment: Redrawing "High-Crime Areas", 63 Hastings L.J. 179, 182-84 (2011)
("Simply stated, these GIS crime-mapping technologies can produce almost perfect
information about the frequency and geographic location of crimes in any given
area. The crime data can be broken down and analyzed by location, crime, and
time period... . Typically, the data collection, storage, and analysis are done
by police administrators to determine staffing needs or allocate resources."
(footnotes omitted)).





n72.  Rosamunde van Brakel & Paul De Hert, Policing, Surveillance and Law in a
Pre-Crime Society: Understanding the Consequences of Technology Based
Strategies, 20 J. Police Stud. (Belg.), no. 3, 2011 at 163, 173 (recognizing
that new technologies allow for preemptive profiling of individuals as the
combination of predictive strategies and increased surveillance allow for more
targeted profiles).





n73.  See Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 358 ("Hotspots policing relies on
the identification, primarily through GIS analysis, of distinct places
experiencing crime concentrations.").





n74.  Id. at 340 ("As better data and more sophisticated mapping techniques have
come available, opportunities have emerged to move beyond approaches that rely
on density mapping to empirical and evidence-based strategies that forecast
where crime will emerge in the future.").





n75.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12 ("Studies demonstrate that rather
than being random, crime tends to cluster in space, and that directing police or
crime prevention resources to such "hotspots' can have a crime reductive
effect." (citations omitted)); Spencer Chainey et al., The Utility of Hotspot
Mapping for Predicting Spatial Patterns of Crime, 21 Security J. 4, 5 (2008)
("Crime also does not occur randomly. It tends to concentrate at particular
places for reasons that can be explained in relation to victim and offender
interaction and the opportunities that exist to commit crime.").





n76.  See Chainey et al., supra note 75, at 5 ("[Crime] tends to concentrate at
particular places for reasons that can be explained in relation to victim and
offender interaction and the opportunities that exist to commit crime.").





n77.  Id. at 5 ("These concentrations or clusters of crime are commonly referred
to as hotspots - geographic locations "of high crime concentration, relative to
the distribution of crime across the whole region of interest.'").





n78.  Wim Bernasco, Them Again?: Same-Offender Involvement in Repeat and Near
Repeat Burglaries, 5 Eur. J. Criminology 411, 412 (2008) ("Since the
introduction of victimization surveys in the 1970s, it has become widely
recognized that crime is concentrated among relatively few victims. A
significant number of people become repeat victims, some of them over and over
again." (citation omitted)).





n79.  Joel M. Caplan et al., Rutgers Ctr. on Pub. Sec., Joint Operational
Utility of Hotspot, Near Repeat and Risk Terrain Modeling Techniques for Crime
Analysis 1 (2011), available at
http://www.rutgerscps.org/rtm/JointOperationalUtility_Br ief.pdf ("Hotspot
mapping is the use of cartographic techniques to create and visualize crime
clusters. Conventional hotspot mapping uses the locations of past events to
predict locations of future similar events ... .").





n80.  See Anthony A. Braga et al., The Relevance of Micro Places to Citywide
Robbery Trends: A Longitudinal Analysis of Robbery Incidents at Street Corners
and Block Faces in Boston, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 7, 9 (2011)
("Criminological evidence on the spatial concentration of crime suggests that a
small number of highly active micro places in cities - frequently called "hot
spots' - may be primarily responsible for overall citywide crime trends.").





n81.  Id. at 10 ("[A] research team from the University of Maryland analyzed
crime incidents at the level of street segments in Seattle over a 14-year period
and found that, year to year, about 50 percent of the crime was concentrated in
approximately 4.5 percent of street segments.").





n82.  Lawrence W. Sherman et al., Hot Spots of Predatory Crime: Routine
Activities and the Criminology of Place, 27 Criminology 27, 37 (1989).





n83.  Braga et al., supra note 80, at 9 ("In fact, roughly 8 percent of street
segments and intersections in Boston are responsible for nearly 66 percent of
street robbery incidents between 1980 and 2008 even when controlling for prior
levels of robbery and existing trends.").





n84.  Lisa Tompson & Michael Townsley, (Looking) Back to the Future: Using
Space-Time Patterns to Better Predict the Location of Street Crime, 12 Int'l J.
Police Sci. & Mgmt. 23, 25 (2010) (U.K.) (studying how time of day can add
predictive accuracy to crime hot spotting).





n85.  Braga et al., supra note 80, at 11 ("Studies of the spatial distribution
of robbery in urban environments have also revealed that a small number of micro
places generate a disproportionate number of robberies. Certain high-risk
facilities, such as bars, convenience stores, and banks, at particular places
also tend to experience a disproportionate amount of robbery.").





n86.  Tompson & Townsley, supra note 84, at 24 ("Research has repeatedly
demonstrated that offenders prefer to return to a location associated with a
high chance of success instead of choosing random targets.").





n87.  Joel M. Caplan, Mapping the Spatial Influence of Crime Correlates: A
Comparison of Operationalization Schemes and Implications for Crime Analysis and
Criminal Justice Practice, 13 Cityscape, no. 3, 2011, at 57, 60.





n88.  Id. at 58-59 ("Location matters when assessing the likelihood of crime
because crimes cluster at certain locations."). "Crime control and prevention
activities must consider not only who is involved in the criminal events, "but
also the nature of the environments in which these activities take place'
because opportunity for crime is an attribute of all places." Id. at 61
(citation omitted).





n89.  Id. at 69 ("Qualities of places themselves do not create crime. They
simply point to locations where, if the conditions are right, the risk of crime
or victimization will be high.").





n90.  The terminology of an environmental backcloth is used to describe the
dynamic realities of areas of heightened crime:



   This backcloth is dynamic and can be influenced by the forces of "crime
attractors" and "crime generators" which contribute to the existence of crime
hotspots. Attractors are those specific things that attract offenders to places
to commit crime. Generators refer to the greater opportunities for crime that
emerge from increased volume of interaction occurring at these areas. The
concentration of crime at specific places or hotspots is consistent with the
idea of an environmental backcloth [and] is well supported by research ... .

 Id. at 60 (citations omitted).





n91.  Shane D. Johnson et al., Space-Time Patterns of Risk: A Cross National
Assessment of Residential Burglary Victimization, 23 J. Quantitative Criminology
201, 203-04 (2007).





n92.  Id. at 203. Opportunity theory holds "that crime rates will be highest in
locations that contain the best opportunity for crime." Id. "An important
finding in this body of research [on opportunity theory] was that criminals did
not travel far to exploit opportunities for crime." Id.





n93.  Joel M. Caplan et al., Risk Terrain Modeling: Brokering Criminological
Theory and GIS Methods for Crime Forecasting, 28 Just. Q. 360, 364 (2011)
("While a crime event occurs at a finite place, risk is a continuous dynamic
value that increases or decreases intensity and clusters or dissipates in
different places over time, even places remote from a crime event. Valuations of
risk are tied to geography and, regarding crime, risk values are the measure of
a place's potential for a crime event to occur. Geographic risk is determined by
a nexus of certain factors and it changes only as the characteristics and
interactions of those factors vary. Sometimes all of those factors must interact
at the same place and time for the event to occur.").





n94.  Theories of criminology have always utilized a predictive element. Routine
activities theory is a prediction that if certain factors exist there is more of
a risk of crime. See Elizabeth R. Groff, Adding the Temporal and Spatial Aspects
of Routine Activities: A Further Test of Routine Activity Theory, 21 Security J.
95, 98-99 (2008) (studying the theory of street robbery "based on routine
activity theory").





n95.  Lawrence E. Cohen & Marcus Felson, Social Change and Crime Rate Trends: A
Routine Activity Approach, 44 Am. Soc. Rev. 588 (1979); Johnson et al., supra
note 91, at 203 (postulating that "crime would not take place unless a motivated
offender comes into contact with a suitable target (opportunity for crime) in
the absence of a capable guardian (often, though not always, within a socially
disorganized community)").





n96.  See Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12, 21.





n97.  Shane D. Johnson et al., Offender as Forager? A Direct Test of the Boost
Account of Victimization, 25 J. Quantitative Criminology 181, 184 (2009).





n98.  Caplan et al., supra note 79, at 5 ("Prospective mapping of violent
crimes, therefore, must incorporate both the spatial-temporal patterns of recent
known violent crime incidents and the environmental risks of micro-level places
if it is to yield the most efficient and actionable information for police
resource allocation and crime prevention efforts.").





n99.  See generally Chainey & Ratcliffe, supra note 26, at 8; Harries, supra
note 26, at 92-93 (describing the history of crime mapping); Paulsen & Robinson,
supra note 26, at 154; Anselin et al., supra note 26 (describing analytical
methods for studying the relationship between location and crime).





n100.  Mohler et al., supra note 48, at 104 (analyzing the predictive accuracy
of forecasts created using crime patterns); Martin B. Short et al., Dissipation
and Displacement of Hotspots in Reaction-Diffusion Models of Crime, 107 Proc.
Nat'l Acad. Sci. U.S. Am. 3961, 3964 (2010) (describing how research suggests
hotspot policing strategies are effective at reducing crime).





n101.  See infra Part I.2.a.





n102.  See infra Part I.2.b.





n103.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12 ("Research demonstrates that prior
victimisation is a very good predictor of future risk and that when it occurs,
repeat victimisation tends to occur swiftly." (citations omitted)).





n104.  Caplan et al., supra note 79, at 2 ("Near repeat refers to when a crime
incident occurs nearby a precursory crime location within a specific period of
time. Near repeat analysis adds a temporal aspect to point pattern and hotspot
analysis by suggesting - with a certain level of statistical confidence, that
new crimes happen within a certain distance of past crimes and within a certain
period of time from the prior incident.").





n105.  Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412; Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 13
("The (communicated) risk of burglary to nearby properties (within 400m of each
other) was shown to be elevated for a short period of time, typically one-month,
after which risks returned to pre-event levels. This pattern of space-time
clustering has been referred to as the "near repeat' phenomenon to reflect the
association with repeat victimisation."); Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 215;
Jerry H. Ratcliffe & George F. Rengert, Near-Repeat Patterns in Philadelphia
Shootings, 21 Security J. 58, 58 (2008) ("The near-repeat phenomenon states that
if a location is the target of a crime such as burglary, the homes within a
relatively short distance have an increased chance of being burgled for a
limited number of weeks.").





n106.  See, e.g., Graham Farrell & Ken Pease, Once Bitten, Twice Bitten: Repeat
Victimisation and Its Implications for Crime Prevention 21 (Gloria Laycock ed.,
1993); Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412; Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12;
Chainey et al., supra note 75, at 11, 19; Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 215.





n107.  Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 206-14, 215 ("For every data set
analyzed, more burglaries occurred close to each other in space and time than
would be expected on the basis of chance, and the size of the effect typically
conformed to expectation. It is important to note that the results do more than
confirm that burglary clusters in space. They also demonstrate that when a
burglary occurs at one location, a further burglary is likely to occur nearby
and that it will do so swiftly. As time elapses, this communication of risk
decays.").





n108.  Id. at 210.





n109.  Bernasco, supra note 78, at 414.





n110.  Farrell & Pease, supra note 106, at 21 (citing David Forrester et al.,
The Kirkholt Burglary Prevention Project, Rochdale 9 (Kevin Heal ed., 1988))
("Once a house has been burgled, its chance of repeat victimisation was four
times the rate of houses that had not been burgled at all.").





n111.  Id. at 8 (noting that one study in Saskatoon, Canada found that ""the
likelihood of a repeat burglary within one month was over twelve times the
expected rate, but this declined to less than twice the expected rate when
burglaries six months apart were considered. Analysis of the repeat burglaries
within one month showed that half of the second victimisations occurred within
seven days of the first'" (quoting Natalie Polvi et al., The Time Course of
Repeat Burglary Victimization, 31 Brit. J. Criminology 411, 412 (1991))).





n112.  See Bernasco, supra note 78, at 427-28 (suggesting that, based on the
author's research, "if you want to prevent burglaries, focus on recently burgled
properties and victims as well as on nearby properties and residents, react very
quickly, and allocate resources elsewhere when the elevated risk has
decreased").





n113.  Beiser, supra note 56.





n114.  Ashley B. Pitcher & Shane D. Johnson, Exploring Theories of Victimization
Using a Mathematical Model of Burglary, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 83, 85-86
(2011) (discussing the flag and boost theories behind the near-repeat
phenomenon).





n115.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12.





n116.  Shane D. Johnson, Repeat Burglary Victimisation: A Tale of Two Theories,
4 J. Experimental Criminology 215, 217 (2008) (Neth.) (emphasis omitted).





n117.  See Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12; Johnson, supra note 116, at
216; see also M.B. Short et al., Measuring and Modeling Repeat and Near-Repeat
Burglary Effects, 25 J. Quantitative Criminology 325, 326 (2009) (noting that
"event dependence suggests that some aspect of the burglar's previous experience
victimizing the house increases their [sic] preference to return").





n118.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 13.





n119.  Bernasco, supra note 78, at 423-25 (concluding that "both repeat
burglaries and near repeat burglaries are much more likely to involve the same
offender than are spatially or temporally unrelated burglaries"); Johnson et
al., supra note 97, at 194 ("For repeat burglary victimization, detected events
were almost always cleared to the same offender. Moreover, events that occurred
closest to each other in space and time were those most likely to involve one or
more of the same offenders.").





n120.  Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 204 (citing U. Ericsson, Straight from
the Horse's Mouth, 43 Forensic Update 23 (1995) (U.K.)).





n121.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 13 ("Consideration of the reasons
typically given by offenders for returning to the same properties suggests that
these are bounded by rational choices that are entirely commensurate with the
boost account. These include familiarity with the house layout, the risks
involved, and the known availability of saleable goods. Thus, the overwhelming
evidence from the research undertaken is that the same perpetrators are
responsible for the bulk of offences against the same target." (citation
omitted)).





n122.  Id. ("Research ... suggests that the risk of victimisation is
communicable, with the risk of victimisation following an initial burglary not
only affecting the burgled home but, in a similar way to the spread of a
communicable disease, also extending to properties nearby." (citations
omitted)); see Johnson, supra note 116, at 216 ("The initial offence boosts the
future likelihood of victimisation, and hence the observed correlation between
historic and prospective victimisation is due to a contagion-like process."
(citation omitted)).





n123.  Bowers & Johnson, supra note 62, at 12 ("Thus, following an initial
crime, the risk of victimisation is "boosted.' Here, the assumption is that the
same offender, or group of offenders, will be involved in the crime series and
that experience gained during the first event is put to use later." (citation
omitted)).





n124.  See Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 202 ("The pattern of clustering in
time and space has significant implications for the extent and choice of crime
prevention measures as well as the value of any predictive work that could
influence detection activity.").





n125.  See Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412 ("It has recently been suggested that
the elevated risk in the aftermath of victimization may spill over to the social
and spatial environment. It was demonstrated that, in the wake of a domestic
burglary, not only the property itself but also properties near the victimized
property have an elevated burglary risk, and similar findings have been reported
with respect to shootings and vehicle crime." (citations omitted)).





n126.  See Johnson et al., supra note 97, at 197 ("The finding that TFMV [theft
from motor vehicles] conforms to the same pattern as burglary suggests that this
approach of prospective mapping may be useful for this type of crime also.");
Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 216-17 ("Other acquisitive crimes such as
theft from automobile are likely to share motivational factors with burglary and
are committed with a high enough frequency to warrant study.").





n127.  See Johnson et al., supra note 91, at 216 ("Besides housing density and
transportation infrastructure, the communication of risk may also be influenced
by social, demographic and physical factors that characterize residential
areas.").





n128.  See Johnson, supra note 116, at 236 ("To illustrate, consider that as
homes are stationary, any burglar can decide to return to a preferred location
so long as he can remember where it is. In the case of street robbery, an
offender may not remember exactly what a particular victim looked like, or know
where they are next likely to encounter them. Thus, in the case of the latter,
the convergence in space and time of the victim and offender will often be the
result of a more complex process over which the offender may have little
control. In such cases, the contribution of a boost process (as currently
conceived) may be small, and patterns of concentration at the victim level may
be more strongly influenced by stable individual differences across potential
victims." (footnote omitted)).





n129.  See Farrell & Pease, supra note 106, at 22 ("From the time-course
analysis, for maximum preventive effect, [resources] must be in place within
twenty four hours. After victimisation there exists a "heightened risk period'
for revictimisation. The risk declines with time as the time-course smooths out
at a low-level of revictimisation, and so a late response is less efficient to
the point of uselessness."); Johnson, supra note 116, at 215-16 (finding that
research shows that repeat victimization is a good indicator of future
victimization, at least under short time frames).





n130.  Johnson, supra note 116, at 226 & fig.2 (showing results indicating more
repeat burglaries in the first two weeks than in later weeks); accord Pitcher &
Johnson, supra note 114, at 85 ("When repeat burglary victimization occurs, it
is more likely to do so swiftly than after some time has elapsed. In fact, the
time course of repeat victimization fits an exponential decay function rather
well. More recent work suggests that this phenomenon extends to nearby homes
such that when one house is victimized, those nearby also appear to experience a
temporary elevation in risk. When this occurs, it has been referred to as a near
repeat." (citations omitted)).





n131.  Almost all the studies mentioned in this Article caution against
extrapolating too far from the findings included under the limited tests
conducted.





n132.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 342.





n133.  Caplan, supra note 87, at 68.





n134.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 343.





n135.  Certain criteria used in data analysis could be critiqued as leading to
gender or racial profiling. From an analyst's perspective, these data points are
based on statistical correlations from past crime data. From a legal
perspective, these types of profiles, while questionable, have not been deemed
unconstitutional. See infra Part II.B.1.





n136.  Paul & Joiner, supra note 38, at 7.





n137.  Id.





n138.  Some near-repeat analysis holds for violent crimes. See Caplan et al.,
supra note 79, at 2-3 (noting that near-repeat analysis is useful in the
"immediate aftermath of a new violent criminal event," and the validation of
"nearest neighbor analysis and hotspot maps that violent crime incidents cluster
spatially and temporally" (emphasis omitted)).





n139.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 345-46 (noting that, to predict future
shootings, researchers identified "seven risk layers that [they] believed would
accurately forecast the locations of shooting incidents in Newark: locations of
drug arrests, proximity to "at-risk' housing developments, "risky facilities,'
locations of gang activity, known home addresses of parolees previously
incarcerated for violent crimes and/or violations of drug distribution laws,
locations of past shooting incidents, and locations of past gun robberies").





n140.  Xu et al., supra note 37, at 2 ("Gun shootings are not randomly
distributed throughout a terrain; but rather, are concentrated in a
statistically significant way around certain features. In Newark and Irvington,
these features are middle and high schools, bus stops, and public housing.").





n141.  See id. at 2-3.





n142.  Caplan et al., supra note 93, at 374 ("As much as 21% more shootings
occurred in high-risk cells predicted by the risk terrain map compared to the
retrospective map... . The risk terrain innovation therefore doubles the number
of shooting incident locations that were correctly predicted compared with the
conventional approach."); Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 352 ("The risk
terrain model outperformed retrospective maps across each high risk cell
designation method and across all time periods.").





n143.  Caplan, supra note 87, at 69-70 (citations omitted).





n144.  See Caplan et al., supra note 93; Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 344
(recognizing issues central to the validity of RTM including (1) "selection
criteria used in determining which risk layers to include in risk terrain
models" and (2) "best models"); New Technique Predicts Crime Risk, Informant
(Kansas City Mo. Police Dep't, Kansas City, Mo.), Aug. 2010, at 1 ("[Risk
terrain modeling] attempts to predict where crime will happen and then address
it before it does. RTM uses crime-mapping software the police department already
has but takes it to another level. Instead of just including historical
information about crime hotspots, it incorporates a variety of other factors
(like vacant buildings, where parolees live, or almost any other factor
imaginable) to create a map that highlights areas at highest risk for crime.").





n145.  Kennedy et al., supra note 35, at 347 ("Newark Police personnel
identified two offender types as playing prominent roles in shootings: Gang
members and parolees previously incarcerated for violent crime and/or drug
distribution.").





n146.  See Bernasco, supra note 78, at 412 ("Patterns of risk communication
might also operate in social networks, so that family members, friends,
classmates or colleagues of victims are "infected' with a temporarily elevated
risk of victimization.").





n147.  Caplan et al., supra note 79, at 3 ("Risk terrain maps can be used to
forecast areas with the greatest potential for violent crimes to occur in the
future, not just because police statistics show that similar crimes occurred
there in the past, but because the environmental conditions are ripe (if they
remain unchanged) for violent crimes to occur there tomorrow.").





n148.  This might include the placement of video surveillance systems or even
aerial drone cameras.





n149.  Vince Beiser, Criminal Intent, Wired, Dec. 2011, at 60 (finding that
police in Minneapolis, Minnesota could target gang activity near libraries
because of gang member use of free internet access at local libraries).





n150.  Joel Rubin, UCLA Does the Math on Gang Crimes, L.A. Times, Nov. 1, 2011,
at AA3.





n151.  M. Todd Henderson et al., Predicting Crime, 52 Ariz. L. Rev. 15, 27-28
(2010) ("In their book Is Crime Predictable?, Carolyn Block and Sheryl Knight
attempt to predict future trends in specific types of crime based on data
gathered from past criminal activity taking place in the Chicago area. The
predictive accuracy of their model varied widely depending on the type of crime
in question. For example, rates of larceny and theft were by far the most
predictable, with the number of offenses in eleven cities predicted within 10%
for the year 1982. In contrast, there were accurate predictions of burglary in
only three out of the fourteen cities studied, and predictive success for
aggravated assault varied widely, from very accurate predictions to completely
unpredictable, depending on the city in question." (footnotes omitted)).





n152.  Casady, supra note 36, at 1 ("Parolees, probationers, and registered sex
offenders have been identified in computer databases, and their homes,
workplaces, and treatment centers can be geographically mapped. We can
visualize, measure, and define concentrations of such past offenders. We can
also predict who is at greatest risk for criminal behavior - unemployed young
men, gang members, or chronic truants, for example."); cf. Eric S. Janus &
Robert A. Prentky, Forensic Use of Actuarial Risk Assessment with Sex Offenders:
Accuracy, Admissibility and Accountability, 40 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 1443, 1454
(2003) (discussing the use of the actuarial method of risk assessment to
determine the likelihood of recidivism in sex offenders).





n153.  E.g., Nadya Labi, Misfortune Teller, Atlantic, Jan./Feb. 2012, at 18, 19
(discussing Professor Richard Berk's work in predicting recidivism rates of
parolees in Pennsylvania).





n154.  See, e.g., Shima Baradaran & Frank L. McIntyre, Predicting Violence, 90
Tex. L. Rev. 497, 500-01, 522-24 (2012); Richard Berk, Balancing the Costs of
Forecasting Errors in Parole Decisions, 74 Alb. L. Rev. 1071, 1074 (2010/2011);
see also Paul H. Robinson, Commentary, Punishing Dangerousness: Cloaking
Preventive Detention as Criminal Justice, 114 Harv. L. Rev. 1429, 1432 (2001)
(discussing the shift towards the incarceration of dangerous offenders).





n155.  U.S. Const. amend. IV.





n156.  Id.





n157.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 21-22 (1968) (defining the question of
reasonable suspicion as whether "the facts available to the officer at the
moment of the seizure or the search "warrant a man of reasonable caution in the
belief' that the action taken was appropriate").





n158.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 238 (1983).





n159.  See United States v. Grubbs, 547 U.S. 90, 95 (2006).





n160.  Id. ("In the typical case where the police seek permission to search a
house for an item they believe is already located there, the magistrate's
determination that there is probable cause for the search amounts to a
prediction that the item will still be there when the warrant is executed.").





n161.  Id. at 95 n.2 ("The probable-cause showing may have grown "stale' in view
of the time that has passed since the warrant was issued.").





n162.  Brinegar v. United States, 338 U.S. 160, 175-76 (1949) (defining probable
cause).





n163.  Grubbs, 547 U.S. at 94. In fact, the availability of "anticipatory
warrants" in which there is "probable cause that at some future time (but not
presently) certain evidence of crime will be located at a specified place,"
demonstrates the central role of predictive judgments. Id. (quoting 2 Wayne R.
LaFave, Search and Seizure § 3.7(c), at 398 (4th ed. 2004)). As long as there is
a fair probability that evidence of the crime will occur in a particular place
(because of triggering conditions that also have a fair probability of
occurring) then probable cause has been established. Id. at 95.





n164.  See Daniel J. Steinbock, Data Matching, Data Mining, and Due Process, 40
Ga. L. Rev. 1, 38 (2005) ("The Fourth Amendment permits interferences with
liberty and privacy based on predictions, often made by field officers, without
notice to or consultation with the suspect.").





n165.  See Andrew E. Taslitz, Fortune-Telling and the Fourth Amendment: Of
Terrorism, Slippery Slopes, and Predicting the Future, 58 Rutgers L. Rev. 195,
201 (2005) ("What is less often emphasized is that Katz faced the Justices with
the question whether it is possible to authorize a search for non-existent
evidence - evidence that may or may not come into being in the future.
Specifically, [Katz] involved the warrantless use of an electronic listening and
recording device attached to the outside of a telephone booth to monitor
expected conversations concerning illegal gambling.").





n166.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30-31 (1968); accord United States v. Sokolow,
490 U.S. 1, 7 (1989) ("Police can stop and briefly detain a person for
investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion supported by
articulable facts that criminal activity "may be afoot,' even if the officer
lacks probable cause." (quoting Terry, 392 U.S. at 30)); see also id. ("The
Fourth Amendment requires "some minimal level of objective justification' for
making the stop." (quoting INS v. Delgado, 466 U.S. 210, 217 (1984))).





n167.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 241 (1983) ("Probable cause deals "with
probabilities.'" (quoting Brinegar, 338 U.S. at 175)).





n168.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) ("Reasonable suspicion, like
probable cause, is dependent upon both the content of information possessed by
police and its degree of reliability. Both factors - quantity and quality - are
considered in the "totality of the circumstances - the whole picture' that must
be taken into account when evaluating whether there is reasonable suspicion."
(quoting United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417 (1981))).





n169.  As with the nature of all probabilities, some predictions will be wrong.





n170.  See infra Part II.





n171.  See Florida v. Riley, 488 U.S. 445, 463-64 (1989) (Brennan, J.,
dissenting) ("Justice Frankfurter once noted that "it is a fair summary of
history to say that the safeguards of liberty have frequently been forged in
controversies involving not very nice people,' and nowhere is this observation
more apt than in the area of the Fourth Amendment, whose words have necessarily
been given meaning largely through decisions suppressing evidence of criminal
activity." (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Rabinowitz, 339
U.S. 56, 69 (1950) (Frankfurter, J., dissenting))).





n172.  See supra notes 156-67 and accompanying text.





n173.  White, 496 U.S. at 328-29 ("Gates made clear, however, that those factors
that had been considered critical under Aguilar and Spinelli - an informant's
"veracity,' "reliability,' and "basis of knowledge' - remain "highly relevant in
determining the value of his report.' These factors are also relevant in the
reasonable-suspicion context, although allowance must be made in applying them
for the lesser showing required to meet that standard." (quoting Illinois v.
Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 230 (1983))).





n174.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 231-32 (""The process does not deal with hard
certainties, but with probabilities. Long before the law of probabilities was
articulated as such, practical people formulated certain common-sense
conclusions about human behavior; jurors as factfinders are permitted to do the
same - and so are law enforcement officers. Finally, the evidence thus collected
must be seen and weighed not in terms of library analysis by scholars, but as
understood by those versed in the field of law enforcement.'" (quoting United
States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 418 (1981))).





n175.  Id. at 225.





n176.  Id.





n177.  Id. at 226-27.





n178.  Id. at 246; see also id. at 241 ("Our decisions applying the
totality-of-the-circumstances analysis outlined above have consistently
recognized the value of corroboration of details of an informant's tip by
independent police work.").





n179.  Id. at 242-43.





n180.  Draper v. United States, 358 U.S. 307, 313-14 (1959).





n181.  Id.





n182.  Id. It is important to note the details involved. The tip in Draper was
not that there would be a man carrying drugs, but rather the following:



   Draper would arrive in Denver on a train from Chicago on one of two days, and
that he would be carrying a quantity of heroin. The informant also supplied a
fairly detailed physical description of Draper, and predicted that he would be
wearing a light colored raincoat, brown slacks, and black shoes, and would be
walking "real fast."

 Gates, 462 U.S. at 242 (quoting Draper, 358 U.S. at 309).





n183.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 245-46; Draper, 358 U.S. at 313-14.





n184.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 231 ("Perhaps the central teaching of our decisions
bearing on the probable-cause standard is that it is a "practical, nontechnical
conception.'" (quoting Brinegar v. United States, 338 U.S. 160, 176 (1949))).





n185.  See infra notes 187-97 and accompanying text.





n186.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 332 (1990) ("Although it is a close case,
we conclude that under the totality of the circumstances the anonymous tip, as
corroborated, exhibited sufficient indicia of reliability to justify the
investigatory stop of respondent's car.").





n187.  Id. at 327.





n188.  Id.





n189.  Id.





n190.  Id. at 331 ("Given the fact that the officers proceeded to the indicated
address immediately after the call and that respondent emerged not too long
thereafter, it appears from the record before us that respondent's departure
from the building was within the timeframe predicted by the caller.").





n191.  Id. at 332.





n192.  Id. at 330 ("Thus, if a tip has a relatively low degree of reliability,
more information will be required to establish the requisite quantum of
suspicion than would be required if the tip were more reliable.").





n193.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 268, 271 (2000) ("The anonymous call
concerning J.L. provided no predictive information and therefore left the police
without means to test the informant's knowledge or credibility.").





n194.  Id. at 268.





n195.  Id.





n196.  Id.





n197.  Id. at 270.





n198.  Id. at 270-71.





n199.  Taslitz, supra note 165, at 203-04 ("But the Court has never entirely
abandoned the individualized suspicion mandate for traditional criminal searches
for evidence concerning currently non-existent crimes, and the Court has always
required a relatively brief period of time between when suspicion arises and
when the search or seizure must be executed.").





n200.  In J.L., the timing of the tip to observation was quick, although there
was no firm record established. J.L., 529 U.S. at 268 ("Sometime after the
police received the tip - the record does not say how long - two officers were
instructed to respond. They arrived at the bus stop about six minutes later and
saw three black males "just hanging out [there].'" (alteration in original)
(quoting Petition for Writ of Certiorari to the Supreme Court of Fla. at A-42,
J.L., 529 U.S. 266 (No. 98-1993))).





n201.  See Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 233 (1983); see also Adams v.
Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 146 (1972) ("Applying these principles to the present
case, we believe that Sgt. Connolly acted justifiably in responding to his
informant's tip. The informant was known to him personally and had provided him
with information in the past. This is a stronger case than obtains in the case
of an anonymous telephone tip. The informant here came forward personally to
give information that was immediately verifiable at the scene.").





n202.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 233.





n203.  Where informants are known, however, a lesser degree of corroboration is
required. Compare Williams, 407 U.S. at 146-47 (upholding a Terry stop based on
an uncorroborated tip from a known and previously reliable informant), with
Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 331-32 (1990) (holding that an anonymous tip
justified a Terry stop because both innocent details and predictive information
were corroborated). A known informant's reputation may be assessed, and he may
be held accountable if his allegations turn out to be fabricated. J.L., 529 U.S.
at 270.





n204.  See Williams, 407 U.S. at 147.





n205.  See id.





n206.  See, e.g., Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 493 n.2 (1983) (plurality
opinion) ("The "drug courier profile' is an abstract of characteristics found to
be typical of persons transporting illegal drugs.").





n207.  This section does not address the racial or class-based critiques of this
form of identification. See generally R. Richard Banks, Race-Based Suspect
Selection and Colorblind Equal Protection Doctrine and Discourse, 48 UCLA L.
Rev. 1075, 1083-88 (2001); Samuel R. Gross & Katherine Y. Barnes, Road Work:
Racial Profiling and Drug Interdiction on the Highway, 101 Mich. L. Rev. 651,
655 (2002); David A. Harris, The Stories, the Statistics, and the Law: Why
"Driving While Black" Matters, 84 Minn. L. Rev. 265, 273 & n.48, 274 (1999);
Kevin R. Johnson, Essay, How Racial Profiling in America Became the Law of the
Land: United States v. Brignoni-Ponce and Whren v. United States and the Need
for Truly Rebellious Lawyering, 98 Geo. L.J. 1005, 1006-08 (2010); Sheri Lynn
Johnson, Race and the Decision to Detain a Suspect, 93 Yale L.J. 214 (1983)
[hereinafter Johnson, Race and the Decision]; Anthony E. Mucchetti, Driving
While Brown: A Proposal for Ending Racial Profiling in Emerging Latino
Communities, 8 Harv. Latino L. Rev. 1, 18 (2005).





n208.  See Bernard E. Harcourt & Tracey L. Meares, Randomization and the Fourth
Amendment, 78 U. Chi. L. Rev. 809, 813 (2011). Courts naturally think of
suspicion based on "group-based identifiers." Id.





n209.  Id. ("Suspicion attaches to group-based traits, conditions, and
behaviors; the police identify sets of individuals with motives, individuals who
match a drug-courier profile, individuals who fit an eye-witness description,
individuals who are in a specific location, or individuals who have the same
blood type.").





n210.  Tracey Maclin, The Decline of the Right of Locomotion: The Fourth
Amendment on the Streets, 75 Cornell L. Rev. 1258 (1990); see also David
Rudovsky, The Impact of the War on Drugs on Procedural Fairness and Racial
Equality, 1994 U. Chi. Legal F. 237, 240.





n211.  See United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 268-69, 277 (2002).





n212.  See Tracey Maclin, Race and the Fourth Amendment, 51 Vand. L. Rev. 333,
344-46 (1998). In other contexts, the Supreme Court has obliquely acknowledged
the unconstitutionality of strict racial profiles, yet at the same time it has
allowed racially based profiles to remain factors in the reasonable suspicion
analysis. Id. at 344. This can most easily be seen in the border patrol stop
cases in which race or perceived national origin can be a contextual factor in
determining reasonable suspicion. Again, the underlying logic of these profiles
is that at certain locations (the border), with certain crimes (smuggling), a
predictive profile of a typical suspect is appropriate in determining reasonable
suspicion for a particular suspect.





n213.  Bernard E. Harcourt, Rethinking Racial Profiling: A Critique of the
Economics, Civil Liberties, and Constitutional Literature, and of Criminal
Profiling More Generally, 71 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1275, 1307 (2004) (emphasis
omitted) (footnote omitted).





n214.  Steinbock, supra note 164, at 29-30 ("Although predictive profiling is
not inconsistent with the Fourth Amendment, the factors used must indicate to
the investigating officers (and, later, the reviewing court) the requisite
degree of suspicion. Nothing suggests that these actors should defer to a
computer algorithm for projecting that level of suspicion, but nothing rules out
that possibility either." (footnote omitted)).





n215.  Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690, 692 (1996); United States v.
Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 10 n.6 (1989); id. at 13 (Marshall, J., dissenting); INS v.
Delgado, 466 U.S. 210, 215-17 (1984); Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491, 493,
497-501 (1983) (plurality opinion); Reid v. Georgia, 448 U.S. 438, 440 (1980)
(per curiam); United States v. Mendenhall, 446 U.S. 544, 547 n.1 (1980); id. at
551-57 (Stewart, J., concurring).





n216.  Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 10 (recognizing that drug courier profiles are not
inappropriate to consider in determining reasonable suspicion).





n217.  Id. at 3-4.





n218.  Id. at 10 n.6 ("Agent Kempshall testified that respondent's behavior "had
all the classic aspects of a drug courier.' Since 1974, the DEA has trained
narcotics officers to identify drug smugglers on the basis of the sort of
circumstantial evidence at issue here." (citation omitted)).





n219.  See id. at 8 (recognizing that profiling based on probabilistic evidence
can factor into the reasonable suspicion analysis); see also id. at 13
(Marshall, J., dissenting) ("Reflexive reliance on a profile of drug courier
characteristics runs a far greater risk than does ordinary, case-by-case police
work of subjecting innocent individuals to unwarranted police harassment and
detention.").





n220.  Maclin, supra note 212, at 359.





n221.  Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 14 n.1 (Marshall, J., dissenting) ("Even if such
profiles had reliable predictive value, their utility would be short lived, for
drug couriers will adapt their behavior to sidestep detection from
profile-focused officers."); cf. Michael O. Finkelstein & Bruce Levin, On the
Probative Value of Evidence from a Screening Search, 43 Jurimetrics J. 265, 272
(2003) (concluding "profiles are somewhat predictive but not accurate enough to
show a reasonable probability of crime, given the rarity of drug couriers").





n222.  Tracey L. Meares & Bernard E. Harcourt, Foreword: Transparent
Adjudication and Social Science Research in Constitutional Criminal Procedure,
90 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 733, 789-90 (2000) (analyzing New York City report
on stop and frisks that found one arrest for every 7.3 Terry stops). See
generally Charles L. Becton, The Drug Courier Profile: "All Seems Infected That
th' Infected Spy, As All Looks Yellow to the Jaundic'd Eye", 65 N.C. L. Rev. 417
(1987).





n223.  Reid v. Georgia, 448 U.S. 438, 441 (1980) (per curiam) (holding,
pre-Gates, that profile evidence alone is insufficient for reasonable suspicion
because the "circumstances describe a very large category of presumably innocent
travelers, who would be subject to virtually random seizures were the Court to
conclude that as little foundation as there was in this case could justify a
seizure"); Finkelstein & Levin, supra note 221, at 271 ("The justices generally
agree that a profile, standing alone, does not constitute probable cause for an
arrest. There is less agreement on whether the DEA profiles can provide a basis
for reasonable suspicion. Those who uphold stops based primarily on profiles
appear to accept the DEA assertion that the profiled characteristics, considered
collectively, are common for drug couriers but rare for normal travelers. Those
who oppose stops based on profiles argue that many normal travelers would fit
the profile description.").





n224.  Tung Yin, The Probative Values and Pitfalls of Drug Courier Profiles as
Probabilistic Evidence, 5 Tex. F. on C.L. & C.R. 141, 152 (2000).





n225.  Becton, supra note 222, at 429.





n226.  See id.; see also Yin, supra note 224, at 148 (recognizing the
"chameleon-like way" the profile adapts and criticism that the profile allows
for an "ad hoc rationalization[]" to justify the stop).





n227.  Yin, supra note 224, at 152; see also United States v. Zapata-Ibarra, 223
F.3d 281, 282-83 (5th Cir. 2000) (Weiner, J., dissenting).





n228.  See Zapata-Ibarra, 223 F.3d at 282-83 (Weiner, J., dissenting); Yin,
supra note 224, at 152.





n229.  Yin, supra note 224, at 151.





n230.  See Craig S. Lerner, Reasonable Suspicion and Mere Hunches, 59 Vand. L.
Rev. 407, 437-39 (2006); Andrew E. Taslitz, Police Are People Too: Cognitive
Obstacles to, and Opportunities for, Police Getting the Individualized Suspicion
Judgment Right, 8 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 7, 37 (2010).





n231.  Harcourt & Meares, supra note 208, at 813.





n232.  See id. ("Suspicion attaches to a group trait that an individual
displays, such as having a bulge in one's pants pocket, fitting a description in
the vicinity of a recently committed offense, throwing away a plastic vial at
the sight of a police patrol car, or driving a car with Florida license plates
on the New Jersey Turnpike. These are group-based determinations often made
irrespective of the officer's knowledge of whether a specific offense has been
committed, and suspicion potentially attaches to all individuals within these
categories. Suspicion in these cases is "individualized' only in the sense that
it attaches to an individual because he or she is a member of the suspect group.
In other words, in most cases of policing, suspicion does not originate at the
individual level.").





n233.  Again, the legal standard remains unchanged: "The officer [making a Terry
stop] ... must be able to articulate something more than an "inchoate and
unparticularized suspicion or hunch.'" United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 7
(1989) (quoting Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968)).





n234.  Reasonable suspicion "must be based on specific, objective facts," see
Brown v. Texas, 443 U.S. 47, 51 (1979), and requires that "the detaining
officers ... have a particularized and objective basis for suspecting the
particular person stopped of criminal activity." United States v. Cortez, 449
U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981); see also Reid v. Georgia, 448 U.S. 438, 441 (1980) (per
curiam).





n235.  See generally City of Indianapolis v. Edmond, 531 U.S. 32, 46-47 (2000)
(declaring that general crime suppression techniques violate the Fourth
Amendment).





n236.  Cf. Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 14 n.1 (Marshall, J., dissenting).





n237.  Cortez, 449 U.S. at 418.





n238.  David H. Kaye, Probability, Individualization, and Uniqueness in Forensic
Science Evidence: Listening to the Academies, 75 Brook. L. Rev. 1163, 1178-79
(2010); Laurence H. Tribe, Trial by Mathematics: Precision and Ritual in the
Legal Process, 84 Harv. L. Rev. 1329, 1330 n.2 (1971) ("All factual evidence is
ultimately "statistical,' and all legal proof ultimately "probabilistic,' in the
... sense that no conclusion can ever be drawn from empirical data without some
step of inductive inference ... .").





n239.  Arnold H. Loewy, Rethinking Search and Seizure in a Post-9/11 World, 80
Miss. L.J. 1507, 1518 (2011).





n240.  The scholarly commentary on the role of probabilities is vast and
nuanced. See generally Max Minzner, Putting Probability Back into Probable
Cause, 87 Tex. L. Rev. 913 (2009); Margaret Raymond, Down on the Corner, Out in
the Street: Considering the Character of the Neighborhood in Evaluating
Reasonable Suspicion, 60 Ohio St. L.J. 99, 105 (1999) ("Something more than a
purely probabilistic inference of suspicion based on statistical likelihoods
must be present to justify a stop."); Lawrence Rosenthal, Probability, Probable
Cause, and the Law of Unintended Consequences, 87 Tex. L. Rev. See Also 63
(2009); Yin, supra note 224, at 158 (recognizing that businesses use forms of
yield management to predict future behavior from past activity).





n241.  Professor Christopher Slobogin has written insightfully about this issue.
See Christopher Slobogin, Privacy at Risk: The New Government Surveillance and
the Fourth Amendment 37-44 (2007); Christopher Slobogin, The World Without a
Fourth Amendment, 39 UCLA L. Rev. 1, 39-41 (1991).





n242.  Thompson, supra note 50, at 40 ("Linden Street, where, the statistics
reveal, there is a 2.06 percent chance of a crime happening today, and 3:1 odds
that a crime, should it occur, will be a home break-in versus an auto theft.").





n243.  Ferguson, supra note 71, at 218-19.





n244.  See, e.g., Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000); United States
v. Wright, 582 F.3d 199, 222-23 (1st Cir. 2009) (Lipez, J., dissenting); United
States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53 (1st Cir. 2007); United States v. Baskin, 401
F.3d 788, 793 (7th Cir. 2005); United States v. Vargas, 369 F.3d 98, 101 (2d
Cir. 2004); Bolton v. Taylor, 367 F.3d 5, 8-9 (1st Cir. 2004); United States v.
Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 216 (3d Cir. 2004); United States v. Moore, 235 F.3d 700,
703-04 (1st Cir. 2000); United States v. Jordan, 232 F.3d 447, 448-49 (5th Cir.
2000); United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir. 2000) (en
banc) (Kozinski, J., concurring).





n245.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124.





n246.  Id. ("Accordingly, we have previously noted the fact that the stop
occurred in a "high crime area' among the relevant contextual considerations in
a Terry analysis." (citing Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144, 147-48
(1972))); Williams, 407 U.S. at 147-48 ("While properly investigating the
activity of a person who was reported to be carrying narcotics and a concealed
weapon and who was sitting alone in a car in a high-crime area at 2:15 in the
morning, Sgt. Connolly had ample reason to fear for his safety."); Debra Meek
Nelson, Illinois v. Wardlow: A Single Factor Totality, 2001 Utah L. Rev. 509,
510.





n247.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-25.





n248.  Id. at 121-22.





n249.  Id. at 137 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n250.  Id. at 122 (majority opinion).





n251.  Id. at 124-25.





n252.  People v. Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d 65, 67 (Ill. App. Ct. 1997) ("[Officer
Nolan's] testimony indicates only that the officers were headed somewhere in the
general area. There was no evidence that the officers were investigating the
specific area where defendant had been standing or that any of the police cars
had stopped at that location or that defendant had any basis for believing that
police were interested in his activity. Officer Nolan testified that he was
"caravaning' down West Van Buren when he noticed defendant. He did not testify
that the officers were targeting 4035 West Van Buren because it was known to be
a location where drugs were sold."), aff'd, 701 N.E.2d 484 (Ill. 1998), rev'd,
528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n253.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119; see also id. at 139 (Stevens, J., concurring in
part and dissenting in part) ("The State, along with the majority of the Court,
relies ... on the assumption that this flight occurred in a high crime area.").





n254.  Id. at 137 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n255.  Id. at 137 n.15.





n256.  Or, in the alternative, it reveals that, contrary to its stated
reasoning, the Court accepts that unprovoked flight alone may give rise to
reasonable suspicion. See id. at 124 (majority opinion). As can be seen in the
dissent in Pennsylvania v. Dunlap, two members of the Court clearly believe that
particularized prediction may rise to the level of reasonable suspicion, if not
probable cause. See 129 S. Ct. 448, 448 (2008) (Roberts, C.J., dissenting),
denying cert. to 941 A.2d. 671 (Pa. 2007).





n257.  A Westlaw search of the terms "high crime area" and "reasonable
suspicion" after 2000 returns over two thousand results.





n258.  Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 70, at 1607-18 (collecting cases).





n259.  David A. Harris, Factors for Reasonable Suspicion: When Black and Poor
Means Stopped and Frisked, 69 Ind. L.J. 659, 677-78 (1994); Lenese C. Herbert,
Can't You See What I'm Saying? Making Expressive Conduct a Crime in High-Crime
Areas, 9 Geo. J. on Poverty L. & Pol'y 135, 135-38 (2002); Johnson, Race and the
Decision, supra note 207, at 255-56; Raymond, supra note 240, at 116-24; Amy D.
Ronner, Fleeing While Black: The Fourth Amendment Apartheid, 32 Colum. Hum. Rts.
L. Rev. 383, 384-85 (2001); Christopher Slobogin, The Poverty Exception to the
Fourth Amendment, 55 Fla. L. Rev. 391, 405 (2003); Mia Carpiniello, Note,
Striking a Sincere Balance: A Reasonable Black Person Standard for "Location
Plus Evasion" Terry Stops, 6 Mich. J. Race & L. 355, 358 (2001).





n260.  See, e.g., Harris, supra note 259, at 677-78.





n261.  See, e.g., id.





n262.  E.g., Ferguson, supra note 71, at 223-25.





n263.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 137 n.15 (2000) (Stevens, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n264.  United States v. Black, 525 F.3d 359, 367 (4th Cir. 2008) (Gregory, J.,
dissenting); United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53 (1st Cir. 2007); United
States v. Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 216-18 (3d Cir. 2004); id. at 218-19 (Smith, J.,
concurring); United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir.
2000) (en banc) (Kozinski, J., concurring).





n265.  See supra text accompanying notes 40-44 for a discussion of the LAPD
model of predictive policing.





n266.  The Wardlow case does cut against this need for particularity, as there
was little particularized information about Mr. Wardlow before officers arrived
on the scene. See supra text accompanying note 253.





n267.  William J. Mertens, The Fourth Amendment and the Control of Police
Discretion, 17 U. Mich. J. L. Reform 551, 594-95 (1984) ("The police must be
able to justify singling out from the rest of humanity (or at least from the
rest of the people in the general area) the particular individual whom they have
stopped as somehow meriting this special attention."); Taslitz, supra note 230,
at 14-15.





n268.  It is important to emphasize the newness of the technologies. Many of the
tests are in their initial phases, and no claim of success has yet to have been
made. See supra text accompanying notes 103-04.





n269.  This has happened in other areas in which new technologies challenge
Fourth Amendment principles.





n270.  The analysis in this section focuses on a particular type of informant
tip. Some informants report past facts that a police officer can interpret to
predict future crime. But some informants, like those in Gates, White, and
Draper, focus on future actions of suspects. Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 327
(1990); Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 225 (1983); Draper v. United States,
358 U.S. 307, 309 (1959). The facts presented are genuine predictions that a
certain action will happen at a certain time. It is this subset of informant
tips that is the focus of this analysis.





n271.  See supra Part II.





n272.  Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 272 (2000) (recognizing that informant
tips must not only relate to a particular individual, but also an "assertion of
illegality" in the conduct of that individual).





n273.  Reasonable suspicion "requires that a tip be reliable in its assertion of
illegality, not just in its tendency to identify a determinate person." Id.





n274.  See White, 496 U.S. at 327-32 (emphasizing that the tip not only
contained a number of details at the time, but detailed predictions of future
activity as well).





n275.  See J.L., 529 U.S. at 272 (emphasizing that to support reasonable
suspicion the tip should not merely identify a person but a crime as well).





n276.  United States v. Reaves, 512 F.3d 123, 126 (4th Cir. 2008) ("When the
police rely on an anonymous tip to support reasonable suspicion, the tip "must
be accompanied by some corroborative elements that establish [its]
reliability.'" (alteration in original) (quoting United States v. Perkins, 363
F.3d 317, 323 (4th Cir. 2004))).





n277.  See, e.g., United States v. Griffin, 589 F.3d 148, 150 (4th Cir. 2009)
("The Value-Lodge Motel in Charlotte, North Carolina, was well known to officers
of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department as a location for violent crime
and drug trafficking."); United States v. DeJear, 552 F.3d 1196, 1198 (10th Cir.
2009) ("According to the officers, that house was at an intersection that had a
history of criminal activity."); United States v. Clarkson, 551 F.3d 1196,
1201-02 (10th Cir. 2009) (including characteristics of an area, such as being
known for high crime, as factors for reasonable suspicion); United States v.
Pearce, 531 F.3d 374, 377 (6th Cir. 2008) (holding that police officers who were
patrolling the streets around the Mount Carmel Deli, an area known for narcotics
trafficking, had reasonable suspicion to justify an investigatory search).





n278.  See Pennsylvania v. Dunlap, 129 S. Ct. 448, 448 (2008) (Roberts, C.J.,
dissenting) (arguing that an experienced police officer's generalized knowledge
that drug activity was likely in an area should have been enough for probable
cause), denying cert. to 941 A.2d. 671 (Pa. 2007).





n279.  This is analytically distinct from a high crime area (discussed in the
next section) because the information is about a particular crime that may or
may not be located in an established high crime area. See supra Part II.C.





n280.  Going back to reasonable suspicion first principles, assuming a
well-functioning predictive system that accurately collects, records, and
analyzes crime data, the question is how to evaluate this computer informant's
"veracity," "reliability," and "basis of knowledge." Alabama v. White, 496 U.S.
325, 328-30 (1990). Veracity can be quickly disposed of as the computer
algorithm presents none of the truth-related concerns that arise with a human
informant. The computer computes what it computes, neither being true nor false.
The basis of knowledge element of the analysis is important, but turns on more
foundational concerns of where the data comes from and how it is collected and
sorted. These concerns will be addressed in the next Part. Generally speaking,
however, veracity and basis of knowledge are not serious concerns with computer
programs.





n281.  See, e.g., White, 496 U.S. at 330 (emphasizing how the totality of
circumstances should be factored in when making a determination of reasonable
suspicion).





n282.  Id.





n283.  Florida v. Royer, 460 U.S. 491 (1983) (plurality opinion) (allowing
police to rely on a drug courier profile).





n284.  See supra notes 209-13.





n285.  Johnson, Race and the Decision, supra note 207, at 217-18 ("Although the
aim in selecting facts to justify probable cause or reasonable suspicion must be
objective prediction, practicality tempers the precision of the prediction
required... . The variety of "suspicious' facts or circumstances police may
witness is nearly infinite, but most fall into one of four general categories.
The simplest factor is conduct resembling a crime or necessary preparation for
that crime. A more subtle factor that attracts police attention is conduct that
appears to reflect consciousness of guilt. In addition, characteristics of the
actor may either legitimate observed conduct or render it more suspect. Finally,
the environment in which the actor is observed may aid in the interpretation of
his conduct."); Slobogin, supra note 241, at 39-41.





n286.  See Lerner, supra note 230, at 437-39; Taslitz, supra note 230, at 37,
58.





n287.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 241 (1983).





n288.  See supra Part II.C.





n289.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000) (citing Adams v. Williams,
407 U.S. 143, 144, 147-48 (1972)); e.g., United States v. DeJear, 552 F.3d 1196,
1200-01 (10th Cir. 2009); United States v. Clarkson, 551 F.3d 1196, 1201-02
(10th Cir. 2009); United States v. Pearce, 531 F.3d 374, 383 (6th Cir. 2008);
cf. Shelton v. United States, 929 A.2d 420, 424-26 (D.C. 2007) (distinguishing a
long line of cases justifying Fourth Amendment seizures based on hand-to-hand
transactions because the observed activity did not take place in a high crime
area).





n290.  Thompson, supra note 50, at 38, 40 (describing the 500-by-500 foot
target).





n291.  The Supreme Court has never defined a high crime area, but in Wardlow an
area large in size without any particularized crime data was allowed to
constitute a high crime area. 528 U.S. at 121, 124.





n292.  But see United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir.
2000) (en banc) (Kozinski, J., concurring) ("Just as a man with a hammer sees
every problem as a nail, so a man with a badge may see every corner of his beat
as a high crime area. Police are trained to detect criminal activity and they
look at the world with suspicious eyes. This is a good thing, because we rely on
this suspicion to keep us safe from those who would harm us. But to rely on
every cop's repertoire of war stories to determine what is a "high crime area' -
and on that basis to treat otherwise innocuous behavior as grounds for
reasonable suspicion - strikes me as an invitation to trouble." (citation
omitted)).





n293.  United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53-54 (1st Cir. 2007) (examining
"the nexus between the type of crime most prevalent or common in the area and
the type of crime suspected in the instant case").





n294.  Again, as discussed earlier, the near repeat theories have a quick decay
that makes the timeliness of the information very important. See supra notes
129-30 and accompanying text.





n295.  See, e.g., Harris, supra note 259, at 660; Raymond, supra note 240, at
100; Slobogin, supra note 259, at 405.





n296.  See, e.g., David A. Harris, Particularized Suspicion, Categorical
Judgments: Supreme Court Rhetoric Versus Lower Court Reality Under Terry v.
Ohio, 72 St. John's L. Rev. 975, 1022 (1998); Lewis R. Katz, Terry v. Ohio at
Thirty-Five: A Revisionist View, 74 Miss. L.J. 423, 493 (2004).





n297.  See Johnson v. United States, 333 U.S. 10, 13-14 (1948) ("The point of
the Fourth Amendment, which often is not grasped by zealous officers, is not
that it denies law enforcement the support of the usual inferences which
reasonable men draw from evidence. Its protection consists in requiring that
those inferences be drawn by a neutral and detached magistrate instead of being
judged by the officer engaged in the often competitive enterprise of ferreting
out crime.").





n298.  See, e.g., Mohler et al., supra note 48, at 104; Short et al., supra note
100, at 3965.





n299.  See supra Part I.





n300.  These types of law enforcement responses would address crime increases
under both a flag theory and boost theory. See supra notes 93-98.





n301.  See supra notes 129-30 and accompanying text.





n302.  Thompson, supra note 50, at 97 ("Unlike Santa Cruz, the L.A. experiment
will be run like a clinical trial, with control areas where crime is predicted
and tracked but predictive policing methods are not introduced.").





n303.  Baxter, supra note 25 ("George Mohler, a Santa Clara University assistant
math professor, produced the algorithm for Santa Cruz police after analyzing
years worth of data. He said the 4 percent decline in burglaries in the first
six months is not conclusive evidence that it works. "You kind of have to take
those numbers with a grain of salt because there are other factors,' Mohler said
Friday. Variables such as the economy, the weather, new criminals in town and
even long-term demographic changes factor into crime figures, Mohler said. In a
more scientific experiment, Mohler has been working with Los Angeles police and
an anthropology professor at UCLA. That experiment has split the city into
districts. Predictive policing patrols are used in some areas and others remain
with traditional patrols.").





n304.  Rubin, supra note 2, at A17 ("Much of the work at UCLA and other
universities focuses on burglaries, because there are a lot of them and their
times and locations are easy to pin down. Building predictive tools capable of
addressing rarer and more complex crimes, such as homicides and rapes, will be
far more complex.").





n305.  United States v. Roch, 5 F.3d 894, 897-98 (5th Cir. 1993) ("In fact, the
surveillance failed to provide reasonable suspicion of any crime. The agents did
not see Roch commit a criminal offense, engage in any questionable behavior, or
break any traffic laws. The only activity the agents observed was a man and
woman leaving the motel parking lot in a[] white and orange pickup truck, and
driving to a filling station." (footnotes omitted)).





n306.  See Cope, supra note 65, at 193.





n307.  This, in turn, affects the quality of the reasonable suspicion analysis.
See Murray v. United States, 419 U.S. 942, 944 (1974) (Douglas, J., dissenting)
("But the transmission of the information in the form of a Los Angeles "police
report' is of no immediate analytical significance; the Los Angeles Department
merely served as a conduit between the searching officer and a still undisclosed
source. The fact that the searching officer received his information from
another police officer does not alter the usual Fourth Amendment inquiry."),
denying cert. to 492 F.2d 178 (9th Cir. 1973).





n308.  See Ferguson, supra note 71, at 225-27.





n309.  Chainey & Ratcliffe, supra note 26, at 65 ("Crime data recorded in police
information systems offer only a partial view of crime in society, and not all
crime reported to the police ends up being recorded as crime.").





n310.  See John Markovic & Christopher Stone, Vera Inst. of Justice, Crime
Mapping and the Policing of Democratic Societies 2 (2002) ("Even some
jurisdictions with sophisticated crime mapping programs choose not to map some
forms of domestic violence, crimes among juveniles, threats, defacing public
property, and other criminal offenses.").





n311.  Cf. Harries, supra note 26, at 98.





n312.  Ashby, supra note 52.





n313.  Rachael King, IBM Analytics Help Memphis Cops Get "Smart', Bloomberg
Businessweek (Dec. 5, 2011),
http://www.businessweek.com/technology/ibm-analytics-help-memphis-cops-get-smart
-12052011.html.





n314.  Amos Maki, Crimes Lurk in Police Memos, Com. Appeal (Memphis), Jan. 25,
2012, at A1; Mike Matthews, MPD Memos Predicted to Drastically Increase Crime
Stats, ABC24 (Jan. 25, 2012, 5:08 PM),
http://www.abc24.com/news/local/story/MPD-Memos-Expected-to-Drastically-Increase
-Crime/KkIIl2jHK0ya UtilCB4fzg.cspx ("Memphis Police Director Toney Armstrong
confirmed the discovery of 79,000 memos dating back to 2006. MPD's top cop said
many of those memos could be crimes that should have been reported... . Now,
with a full review of those 79,000 memos, those crime stats will probably go way
up.").





n315.  Maki, supra note 314, at A1 ("The department picked a sampling of 20,000
memos from 2010 and found what Armstrong described as a high error rate. "We
found that one out of every 15 memos should have been upgraded to a report,' he
said. The discovery could cast doubt on the crime-reduction numbers the
department claimed under former police director Larry Godwin.").





n316.  Credit goes to Professor Steven Morrison for reminding me of this
important point.





n317.  See supra Part I.





n318.  For example, Professor George Mohler, a math professor, modeled his
predictive policing software on studies done on earthquakes with seismic
aftershocks and Professor P. Jeffrey Brantingham is an anthropologist. See
Rubin, supra note 2, at A1.





n319.  See, e.g., King, supra note 313. Several other companies have designed
and are selling predictive computer systems to law enforcement.





n320.  See supra Part I.





n321.  As of yet, these oversight structures have not been developed.





n322.  See supra text accompanying notes 40-57.





n323.  See Ferguson, supra note 71, at 196 n.107.





n324.  See Malinowski E-mail, supra note 42 ("We ... stress that this is a
place-based strategy that develops and plots forecasts based on a three year
look at crime patterns and that arrests are not part of the equation. We felt
this was important because we heard from some community members that they were
concerned about the program creating a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy from
under which a community could not recover. For instance if the police deploy to
an area due to a forecast based on crime AND arrests and do, in fact, make
additional arrests that go back into the model, it could skew further
forecasting. In our model, we would hope to deploy the officers based on crime
only and then hopefully deny the criminal the opportunity to commit the crime in
the first place. We don't want to necessarily be tied up taking a report or
making an arrest if we could just as easily be in the right place at the right
time and deter the criminal from carrying out their plans to commit a property
crime.").





n325.  See United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 49 (1st Cir. 2007). In United
States v. Wright, a defendant introduced city crime statistics against the
prosecution in an attempt to prove that the area was not in fact a high crime
area as defined by the city's own standards. Id.





n326.  Ferguson & Bernache, supra note 70, at 1608-18 (demonstrating uncertainty
in both federal and state courts regarding the standard for what constitutes a
"high crime area").





n327.  See supra Part I.





n328.  See Thompson, supra note 50, at 40.





n329.  Eli B. Silverman, With a Hunch and a Punch, 4 J.L. Econ. & Pol'y 133,
144-45 (2007); see also John Douglass, Tactical Deployment: The Next Great
Paradigm Shift in Law Enforcement?, Geography & Pub. Safety, Jan. 2009, at 6, 7
n.1. See generally James J. Willis et al., Police Found., Compstat in Practice:
An In-Depth Analysis of Three Cities 2 n.1 (2003) (describing the origins of the
name COMPSTAT).





n330.  Willis et al., supra note 329, at 12, 15.





n331.  See Graham Rayman, The NYPD Police Tapes: Inside Bed-Stuy's 81st
Precinct, Village Voice, May 5, 2010, at 12, 14, 15 (describing the pressure on
police departments to report certain numbers).





n332.  See Editorial, The Truth Behind Stop-and-Frisk, N.Y. Times, Sept. 3,
2011, at A26.





n333.  I. Bennett Capers, Rethinking the Fourth Amendment: Race, Citizenship,
and the Equality Principle, 46 Harv. C.R.-C.L. L. Rev. 1, 16, 17 & n.120 (2011)
("Between January 1, 2006, and September 30, 2007, the New York City Police
Department completed stop-and-frisk forms for 867,617 individuals. Of that
number, 453,042 were black, and another 30% were Hispanic, numbers grossly
disproportionate to their representation in the general public. Only one in
every 21.5 blacks stopped was found to be engaged in activity warranting arrest.
Put another way, of the 453,042 stop-and-frisk forms police officers completed
for black suspects, approximately 402,943 were for stopping and frisking blacks
not engaged in unlawful activity warranting arrest."); Editorial, supra note
332, at A26.





n334.  Capers, supra note 333, at 17 n.120; Editorial, supra note 332, at A26.





n335.  John D. Castiglione, Human Dignity Under the Fourth Amendment, 2008 Wis.
L. Rev. 655, 659-61 (describing how courts balance the government's interests
against the invasion of privacy); Harris, supra note 207, at 290-91 (describing
the irony that the victims of crimes and those who need the most protection are
most likely to be stopped during illegal searches); Andrew E. Taslitz, Respect
and the Fourth Amendment, 94 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 15, 23-24 (2003)
(detailing illegal seizure of property and home invasions and the psychological
effect on victims); see Tracey Maclin, "Black and Blue Encounters" - Some
Preliminary Thoughts About Fourth Amendment Seizures: Should Race Matter?, 26
Val. U. L. Rev. 243, 255 (1991).





n336.  Harris, supra note 207, at 290-91 ("The right to be free from illegal
searches and seizures belongs not just to the guilty, but to everyone.").





n337.  Of course, some might argue that this weight is given to officers anyway
without the additional weight of a computer algorithm.


                               2 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

THE SCI-FI SOLUTION TO REAL CRIME;
Predicting where felons might strike is being made easier with a computer
calculation. Guy Adams reports from Los Angeles

BYLINE: Guy Adams

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1448 words


Sergeant John Gomperz slows his black-and-white patrol vehicle to a crawl as he
enters the parking lot of one of the shopping malls that litter the Los Angeles
northern suburbs. For the next 15 minutes, he drives up and down, past
McDonald's, Taco Bell, and a row of fast-food outlets. Then he pauses at the
entrance of the electronics store Best Buy, and scans the horizon.

We're looking for people he considers "suspicious". These include lone,
predatory males; youths cruising around on bicycles; and anyone who happens to
be sporting gangland tattoos. "I'm trying to be highly visible," he explains.
"Just because we don't see them doesn't mean they can't see us."

Eventually, after smiling at a few shoppers, waving to a casual acquaintance,
and making a final lap of the car-park, Gomperz looks at his watch, winds up the
window, and drives off. Job done, he announces.

To a casual observer, it might seem a waste of a quarter of an hour of valuable
police time. But the way the sergeant sees things, the long, slow tour of a
seemingly normal parking lot is one of the most important things he's done all
day.

That's how things roll in the brave new world of computerised "predictive
policing", a hi-tech crime-busting technique which Gomperz is helping to pioneer
and which ,has the potential to revolutionise modern law enforcement.

The technique revolves around a single mathematical algorithm, developed by the
University of California, Los Angeles. This complex equation can in theory
predict, with pinpoint accuracy, where criminal offences are most likely to
happen on any given day. Though that sounds like the stuff of science-fiction
novels the principle is relatively straightforward. It mines several years'
crime statistics to tease out hidden patterns. Once identified, they are
projected into the future, to predict where cars might be stolen, or houses
burgled, on any given day.

The forecasts are startlingly specific, and that's where the policing comes in.
Each morning, Gomperz and his colleagues in the Foothill area of Los Angeles,
where the technology is being tested, are given maps identifying a handful of
"boxes" measuring 500ft x 500ft - the supposed crime hot-spots for that day. The
officers are instructed to visit them as often as time allows. Once inside the
"box", they make themselves as visible as possible. The shopping centre car-park
which Gomperz has just slowly criss-crossed is bang in the middle of one of that
day's boxes.

Computerised "predictive policing" is still in its infancy, but all the early
signs are that it has a startling effect. In the city of Santa Cruz, California,
where it was first trialled this summer, a 25 per cent drop in crime was
recorded. Meanwhile in Foothill, a 50sq mile portion of northern Los Angeles,
the number of non-violent crimes has dropped from around 50 a week to nearer 40,
in the eight weeks since trials began. So striking have the results been that
UCLA's system will this year be rolled out across Los Angeles, one of America's
largest police forces. And it could soon be crossing the Atlantic. On 23
January, Captain Sean Malinowski, a LAPD officer who helped to develop the
technology, will showcase it to delegates at the Defence Geospatial Intelligence
conference in London.

"Anecdotally it seems to work. From the data we're seeing, it stops crime
happening," Malinowski says, adding that an era of declining resources (the LAPD
currently has a paid overtime ban), predictive policing can be a particularly
valuable tool, since it isn't labour intensive. "If a suspect turns up, say, to
steal a car, and he sees a police officer, then maybe that's enough to stop him
committing a crime that day.

"Making arrests is still important. It keeps officers motivated. And in this
trial, it has certainly been happening, when officers are in their boxes. But
arresting people also takes up a huge amount of time. Booking one guy can take
up most of a shift. So if we can reduce crime without doing that, so much the
better." Malinowski struck on the idea for computerised predictive policing
several years ago, when he was asked to supply UCLA with crime data for a
research project. A bookish man, with an interest in academia, he began
attending lectures there, and soon learnt that it was theoretically possible to
use equations to model naturally occurring events such as animal population
growths, or migration patterns.

In conjunction with several UCLA academics, he decided to create an equation
which could model crime patterns. The algorithm they came up with uses three
pieces of information about each crime - the time, date and co-ordinates -
before teasing patterns out of the data.

Jeff Brantingham, a UCLA anthropologist who helped to develop it, says the
ongoing trial in Foothill is using a randomised control. On some days, the
co-ordinates of the boxes officers are asked to focus on are randomly generated;
on others, they use the algorithm. "Comparing crime on the days we use the
algorithm and the days we don't will give us a true gold-standard test as to
whether it really works," he says. "We are also trying to measure appropriate
dosage: how long an officer needs to spend in a box for it to be effective."

The concept of predictive policing is not without critics. Civil libertarians
are concerned it might lead to life mirroring the film Minority Report, which
starred Tom Cruise, in which police target people for crimes they might commit
at some undetermined point in the future.

It also has legal complications. Under the Fourth Amendment of the US
Constitution, police officers are forbidden from stopping a suspect without
"reasonable suspicion" that they are committing a crime. No one yet knows
whether simply being in a geographic box identified by a computer programme
represents reasonable suspicion.

"What happens if officers turn up at a 500ft x 500ft area, on the look out for
burglaries, see a guy with a black bag, search him and find it contains stolen
goods?" wonders Andrew Ferguson, an assistant professor of Law at the University
of the District of Colombia. "If that case goes to court, there will be the
question of whether it was reasonable for the officer to suspect he was
committing a crime."

If computerised predictive policing catches on, Ferguson expects a test case
eventually to work its way up to the US Supreme Court. In the meantime, he
expects noisy kickback from civil rights groups. "That a computer can
effectively curtail the Fourth Amendment rights of individuals in certain areas
would be particularly troubling to the civil liberties lobby," he says.

"There will also be concerns that if police wanted to target certain areas, or
demographics, then they could simply tweak the algorithm to ensure officers
visit certain neighbourhoods."

Back on the streets of Foothill, Sergeant Gomperz has no such concerns. He
drives to another 500ft square box - this time at a park named after Ritchie
Valens, the Mexican-American songwriter who wrote "La Bamba" and grew up
locally. As we pull up next to a children's playground, a young man, with
tattoos, cropped hair and a menacing pit-bull terrier catches sight of the
patrol car. Seconds later, he turns around, and hastily disappears from the
scene.

"Maybe he's going home to his mother. Maybe he doesn't have a licence for that
dog. Maybe something way more sinister is going on," says Gomperz. "All I know
is that he was here. He's seen us, and he's moving on. When I see that, I think
maybe that's stopped him committing a crime. And that makes me think that this
predictive policing thing really works."

ALGORITHMS

FORMULAE FOR SUCCESS

So what exactly is an algorithm? You could define it as a step-by-step
problem-solving procedure, especially an established, recursive computational
procedure for solving a problem in a finite number of steps. Or, to put it more
simply, it's like a mathematical recipe, a set formula for finding your way
through data.

Humble long division is an example of an algorithm that almost everybody would
recognise. At the other end of the spectrum are the thousand character-long
codes used for automated trades in the financial markets or the series of
complex instructions that make up computer programs.

The man believed to have coined the term is the ninth-century Persian
mathematician, Mohamed ibn-Musa al-Khwarizmi, who is also credited with giving
us the word algebra, which like algorithm, derives from the Latin version of his
name, Algoritmi.

Algorithms are put to good use in the 2011 film Moneyball, which stars Brad Pitt
as a baseball coach who uses computer-generated analysis to pick a series of
undervalued players who are gifted but affordable.

PORTIA WALKER

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 11, 2012
                                 First Edition

Real-life 'Minority Report' stops crime before it happens;
Computer profiling allows LAPD cops to target areas where criminals may operate.
Guy Adams reports.

BYLINE: Guy Adams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1183 words


Sergeant John Gomperz slows his black-and-white patrol vehicle to a crawl as he
enters the parking lot of one of the shopping malls that litter the northern
suburbs of Los Angeles. For the next 15 minutes, he drives up and down, past
McDonald's, Taco Bell and a row of other fast-food outlets. Then he pauses at
the entrance of the electronics store Best Buy and scans the horizon. We're
looking for people he considers "suspicious". These include lone, predatory
males, youths cruising around on bicycles and anyone who happens to be sporting
gangland tattoos. "I'm trying to be highly visible," he explains. "Just because
we don't see them doesn't mean that they can't see us."

Eventually, after smiling at a few shoppers, waving to a casual acquaintance and
making a final lap of the car park, Gomperz looks at his watch, winds up the
window and drives off.

"Job done," he announces.

To a casual observer, it might seem a waste of a quarter of an hour of valuable
police time. But the way the sergeant sees things, the long, slow tour of a
seemingly normal parking lot is one of the most important things he's done all
day. That's how things roll in the brave new world of computerised "predictive
policing", a hi-tech crimebusting technique which Gomperz is helping to pioneer
and which has the potential to revolutionise modern law enforcement.

The technique revolves around a single mathematical algorithm, developed by the
University of California, Los Angeles.

This complex equation can in theory predict, with pinpoint accuracy, where
criminal offences are most likely to happen on any given day.

Though that sounds like the stuff of science fiction, the principle is
relatively straightforward. It mines several years' crime statistics to tease
out hidden patterns. Once identified, they are projected into the future, to
predict where cars might be stolen, or houses burgled, on any given day.

The forecasts are startlingly specific and that's where the policing comes in.
Each morning, Gomperz and his colleagues in the Foothill area of Los Angeles,
where the technology is being tested, are given maps showing "boxes" measuring
500ft x 500ft - the supposed crime hot-spots for that day.

The officers are instructed to visit them as often as time allows. Once inside
the "box", they make themselves as visible as possible. The shopping centre car
park which Gomperz has just slowly criss-crossed is bang in the middle of one of
that day's boxes.

Computerised "predictive policing" is still in its infancy, but all the early
signs are that it has a startling effect.

In the city of Santa Cruz, California, where it was first trialled this summer,
a 25 per cent drop in crime was recorded.

Meanwhile in Foothill, a 50 square mile portion of northern LA, the number of
non-violent crimes has dropped from around 50 a week to nearer 40, in the eight
weeks since trials began.

So striking have the results been that UCLA's system will this year be rolledout
across Los Angeles, one of America's largest police forces. And it could soon be
crossing the Atlantic. On 23 January, Captain Sean Malinowski, an LAPD officer
who helped to develop the technology, will showcase it to delegates at the
Defence Geospatial Intelligence conference in London.

"Anecdotally it seems to work. From the data we're seeing, it stops crime
happening," Malinowski says, adding that in an era of declining resources (the
LAPD currently has a paid overtime ban), predictive policing can be a valuable
tool. "If a suspect turns up, say, to steal a car, and he sees a police officer,
then maybe that's enough to stop him committing a crime that day. Making arrests
is still important. It keeps officers motivated. And in this trial, it has
certainly been happening, when officers are in their boxes. But arresting people
also takes up a huge amount of time... So if we can reduce crime without doing
that, so much the better." Malinowski struck on the idea for computerised
predictive policing several years ago, when he was asked to supply UCLA with
crime data for a research project. A bookish man, with an interest in academia,
he began attending lectures there and soon learnt that it was theoretically
possible to use equations to model naturally occurring events such as animal
population growths, or migration patterns.

In conjunction with UCLA academics, he decided to create an equation which could
model crime patterns. The algorithm they came up with uses three pieces of
information about each crime - the time, date and co-ordinates - be-fore teasing
patterns out of the data. Jeff Brantingham, a UCLA anthropologist who helped to
develop it, says the ongoing trial in Foothill is using a randomised control. On
some days, the coordinates of the boxes officers are asked to focus on are
randomly generated; on others, they use the algorithm. "Comparing crime on the
days we use the algorithm and the days we don't will give us a true
gold-standard test as to whether it really works," he says. "We are also trying
to measure appropriate dosage: how long an officer needs to spend in a box for
it to be effective."

The technology is not without critics.

Civil libertarians are concerned it might lead to life mirroring the Tom Cruise
film Minority Report, in which police target people for crimes which they might
commit at some point in the future.

It also has legal complications. Under the Fourth Amendment of the US
Constitution, police officers are forbidden from stopping a suspect without
"reasonable suspicion" that they are committing a crime. No one yet knows
whether simply being in a geographic box identified by a computer programme
passes the test. "What happens if officers turn up at a 500ft x 500ft area, on
the lookout for burglaries, see a guy with a black bag, search him and find it
contains stolen goods?" wonders Andrew Ferguson, an assistant professor of Law
at the University of the District of Colombia.

"If that case goes to court, there will be the question of whether it was
reasonable for the officer to suspect he was committing a crime."

If computerised predictive policing catches on, Ferguson expects a test case
eventually to work its way up to the US Supreme Court. In the meantime, he
expects a noisy kickback from civil rights groups.

Back on the streets of Foothill, Sergeant Gomperz has no such concerns.

He drives to another 500ft square box - this time at a park named after Ritchie
Valens, the Mexican-American songwriter. As we pull up next to a children's
playground, a young man, with tattoos, cropped hair and a menacing pit-bull
terrier catches sight of the patrol car. Seconds later, he turns around and
hastily disappears from the scene.

"Maybe he's going home to his mother.

Maybe he doesn't have a licence for that dog. Maybe something way more sinister
is going on," says Gomperz.

"All I know is that he was here. He's seen us and he's moving on. When I see
that, I think maybe that's stopped him committing a crime. And that makes me
think that this predictive policing thing really works."

Arresting people takes time. If we can cut crime without doing this, so much the
better

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday

High-tech formula gets cops there before criminals

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; General

LENGTH: 800 words


Sergeant John Gomperz slows his black-and-white patrol vehicle to a crawl as he
enters the parking lot of one of the shopping malls that litter the Los Angeles
northern suburbs. For the next 15 minutes, he drives up and down, past
McDonald"s and Taco Bell. Then he pauses at the entrance of the electronics
store Best Buy, and scans the horizon.

He"s looking for people he considers "suspicious". These include lone males,
youths cruising around on bicycles and anyone with gangland tattoos.

"I"m trying to be highly visible," he explains. "Just because we don"t see them
doesn"t mean they can"t see us."

Eventually, after smiling at a few shoppers, waving to a casual acquaintance and
making a final lap of the carpark, Gomperz looks at his watch, winds up the
window and drives off. Job done, he announces.

It might seem a waste of a quarter of an hour of valuable police time. But the
way the sergeant sees things, the slow tour of a seemingly normal parking lot is
one of the most important things he"s done all day.

That"s how it is in the new world of computerised "predictive policing", a
high-tech crime-busting technique which Gomperz is helping to pioneer and which
could revolutionise modern law enforcement.

The technique is based on a single mathematical algorithm, developed by the
University of California, Los Angeles.

This complex equation can in theory predict, with pinpoint accuracy, where
criminal offences are most likely to happen on any given day.

Though that sounds like the stuff of science-fiction novels, the principle is
straightforward.

The formula mines several years" crime statistics to reveal underlying patterns.
These are projected into the future to predict where cars might be stolen, or
houses burgled.

The forecasts are startlingly specific, and that"s where the policing comes in.
Each morning, Gomperz and his colleagues in the Foothill area of northern Los
Angeles, where the technology is being tested, are given maps identifying a
handful of 125sq m "boxes" - the supposed crime hot-spots for that day.

The officers are instructed to visit them as often as time allows. Once inside
the "box", they make themselves as visible as possible.

Computerised "predictive policing" is still in its infancy, but all the early
signs are that it has a startling effect. In the city of Santa Cruz, California,
where it was first tested last year, a 25 per cent drop in crime was recorded.

In Foothill, the number of non-violent crimes has dropped from about 50 a week
to nearer 40 in the eight weeks since trials began. So striking have the results
been that UCLA"s system will this year be introduced throughout Los Angeles.

And it could soon be crossing the Atlantic. On January 23, Captain Sean
Malinowski, an LAPD officer who helped develop the technology, will demonstrate
it to delegates at the Defence Geospatial Intelligence conference in London.

"From the data we"re seeing, it stops crime happening," Malinowski says, adding
that in an era of declining resources, predictive policing can be a particularly
valuable tool, since it isn"t labour intensive.

"If a suspect turns up, say, to steal a car, and he sees a police officer, then
maybe that"s enough to stop him committing a crime that day.

"Making arrests is still important. It keeps officers motivated. And in this
trial it has certainly been happening.

"But arresting people also takes up a huge amount of time. Booking one guy can
take up most of a shift. So if we can reduce crime without doing that, so much
the better."

Malinowski struck on the idea for computerised predictive policing several years
ago, when he was asked to supply UCLA with crime data for a research project.

In conjunction with UCLA academics, he decided to create an equation which could
model crime patterns. The algorithm they came up with uses three pieces of
information about each crime - the time, date and location.

Jeff Brantingham, a UCLA anthropologist who helped to develop it, says the trial
in Foothill is using a randomised control. On some days, the boxes officers are
asked to focus on are randomly generated; on others, they use the algorithm.

"Comparing crime on the days we use the algorithm and the days we don"t will
give us a true gold-standard test as to whether it really works."

The concept of predictive policing is not without critics. Civil libertarians
are concerned it might lead to life mirroring the Tom Cruise film Minority
Report, in which police target people for crimes they might commit in the
future.

It also has legal complications. Under the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution,
police are forbidden to stop a suspect without "reasonable suspicion" that they
are committing a crime. No one yet knows if being in a geographic box identified
by a computer programme represents reasonable suspicion.

Independent

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                             Government Technology

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             October 8, 2012 Monday

Predictive Policing a Success in Santa Cruz, Calif.

BYLINE: Brian Heaton, Government Technology

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 657 words


Oct. 08--Burglaries are down in the iconic beach community of Santa Cruz,
Calif., and police are crediting the drop in crime to the use of predictive
policing technology.

The Santa Cruz Police Department compared crime statistics from the first six
months of 2012 to the same timeframe in 2011 when the advanced analytics and
prediction technology wasn't being used. Without adding more officers to the
streets or changing beats and shift times, the results were a 19 percent
reduction in property theft.

Zach Friend, press information officer and crime analyst for the Santa Cruz PD,
said the program's success really started being noticed a few months after the
department installed the system as a pilot project in July 2011. Crime data is
pumped into a database and a complex computer algorithm predicts hotspots around
the city where officers can expect illegal activity to occur.

Once officers got comfortable using data generated from the sophisticated
computer algorithm, crime started going down and some arrests were made because
of correct predictions.

For example, in August, an officer was out at 12:30 a.m. driving into a zone
that the predictive technology told him to check out. He noticed two people
attempting to steal a car and arrested them. Until alerted by the police, the
car's owner had no idea the vehicle had been tampered with.

"To me, that's the perfect example of the success of the program -- preventing
the crimes before they occur in the first place," Friend said.

Predictive policing technology is becoming widespread among local law
enforcement agencies in the U.S. Los Angeles and Chicago have been using crime
stats and analytic tools for a few years now. Other cities such as Rialto,
Calif., are just starting their own programs.

Initial Changes

The Santa Cruz PD bumped its predictive policing program from an experimental
phase to full operation in July 2012. In addition to property theft, the system
is now used to predict gang activity and street crimes for specialty units in
the department.

When officers in one of the specialty units access the system, they can check
off selections to run predictive analyses just in their specific area, without
the inclusion of property theft data. While statistics on the accuracy of these
predictions aren't available yet, Friend said the predictive technology has been
able to focus the efforts of those units even further.

In addition, the system is now automated. When the technology was initially
deployed, 10 maps featuring the predictive algorithm's crime hot spot findings
were manually generated by Friend on a daily basis. Now 15 maps are produced,
and supervisors log in to the system prior to briefings and print out a one-page
sheet that lists the predicted crime locations for the day.

The information can be accessed online by any officer and the data is refreshed
hourly, giving users almost real-time statistical views. Friend said data
generated by the system can be accessed by in-car computers and smartphones, but
the department hasn't upgraded its equipment yet so it's unable to accommodate
it.

Friend believes technology upgrades are inevitable, however.

"A lot of the younger officers that are coming up are very adept with technology
and have an expectation that the technology they use at home will be used ... on
the job," Friend said.

"I think [predictive technology] systems like this will be widely adopted,
especially by younger generations of officers that are very comfortable with
having data in their cars, having maps and the interactivity," he added.

While the predictive crime maps are useful, Friend said there aren't any plans
to share them with the public. Although the Santa Cruz PD has been using a
mobile app to share maps of overall crime, the department views the predictive
data as internal tactical information.

___ (c)2012 Government Technology Visit Government Technology at www.govtech.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121008-1GT-Predictive-Policing
-a-Success-in-Santa-Cruz-Calif-1008-20121008

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GT


                                 Copyright 2012


                               6 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 2, 2012 Monday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Sci-fi policing: Anticipating crimes before they are committed

BYLINE: Greg Risling

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


LOS ANGELES - Police are aiming to beat offenders to the scene of a crime by
using computers to predict where trouble might occur.

The Los Angeles Police Department is the largest agency to embrace an experiment
known as "predictive policing," which crunches data to determine where to send
officers to thwart would-be thieves.

Early successes could serve as a model for other cash-strapped law enforcement
agencies, but some legal observers are concerned that it could lead to stops and
searches that violate Fourth Amendment protections.

In the San Fernando Valley, where the program was launched late last year,
officers are seeing double-digit drops in burglaries and other property crimes.
The program has turned enough in-house skeptics into believers that there are
plans to roll it out citywide by next summer.

"We have prevented hundreds and hundreds of people coming home and seeing their
homes robbed," Capt. Sean Malinowski said.

Crime mapping has long been a tool used to determine where the bad guys lurk.
The idea has evolved from colored pins placed on a map to identifying "hot
spots" via a computer database of past crimes and possible patterns.

Over the past decade, many large police departments, including Los Angeles and
New York City, have used CompStat, a system that tracks crime figures and
enables police to send extra officers to trouble spots.

The new program used by  the LAPD and police in the Northern California city of
Santa Cruz is more timely and precise, proponents said. Built on the same model
for predicting aftershocks following an earthquake, the software promises to
show officers what might be coming based on simple, constantly calibrated data -
location, time and type of crime.

The software generates prediction boxes - as small as 500 square feet - on a
patrol map. When officers have spare time, they are told to "go in the box."

The goal is not to boost the number of arrests, a common benchmark to reflect
crime reduction. Officers want to intercept a crime in progress or deter
would-be criminals.

"I want to disrupt an activity before an arrest is made," Malinowski said.

Jeff Brantingham, an anthropology professor at UCLA, said the data are derived
in part from criminal behaviors - repeat victimization and the notion that
criminals tend not to stray too far from areas they know best.

"If you are victimized today, the risk that you'll be a victim again goes way
up," said Brantingham, who co-founded a software company tapped by the LAPD for
its program.

So far, the program has been implemented in five LAPD divisions that cover 130
square miles and about 1.3 million people. In the valley's Foothill Division,
where more than half of the crimes committed are property-related, about 170
patrol officers are spending a total of about 70 hours a week working in the
boxes.

In one instance, a police captain questioned sending officers into a box that
was on the edge of his coverage area. Officers went out and didn't find
anything, but returned several nights later and found a man breaking a window.

The division leads the department in crime reduction, Malinowski said. Crimes
were down in the area 13 percent following the rollout, compared with a slight
uptick across the rest of the city, where the program wasn't being used.

"If you had told us a few years ago you could get an algorithm to perform the
same as a crime analyst, we would think you were crazy," Malinowski said. "Even
the most skeptical people are now coming up to me and saying, 'I think this is
working.'â[#x20ac][#x160]"

Other police departments across the nation are using similar approaches. IBM has
teamed up with police in Memphis and Charleston, S.C., to provide analysis.
Minneapolis police are breaking down crime statistics and factoring in
geographic locations to determine future crimes.

Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, an assistant professor of law at the University of the
District of Columbia, has written about predictive policing and how it may
involve Fourth Amendment protections from unlawful searches and seizures.

Ferguson said the trend is "a seductive idea" for law enforcement agencies that
carry a lot of power. He said that the LAPD has done a good job with the data,
but he's concerned that other departments could abuse the process with racial
profiling or stereotyping a neighborhood or an area.

"There are real pressures to expand this nationally and see it succeed,"
Ferguson said. "I think it's an important innovation. But like any innovation,
it's not foolproof, and looking closely at the data is important to ensure it
doesn't harm the civil liberties of the people living in those areas."

- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                              July 29, 2012 Sunday

Predictive policing takes byte out of crime

BYLINE: AFP(AFP)

LENGTH: 994 words


Crime fighters have long used brains and brawn, but now a new kind of technology
known as "predictive policing" promises to make them more efficient.
A growing number of law enforcement agencies, in the US and elsewhere, have been
adopting software tools with predictive analytics, based on algorithms that aim
to predict crimes before they happen.


The concept sounds like something out of science fiction and the thriller
"Minority Report" based on a Philip K. Dick story.
Without some of the sci-fi gimmickry, police departments from Santa Cruz,
California, to Memphis, Tennessee, and law enforcement agencies from Poland to
Britain have adopted these new techniques.
The premise is simple: criminals follow patterns, and with software -- the same
kind that retailers like Wal-Mart and Amazon use to determine consumer
purchasing trends -- police can determine where the next crime will occur and
sometimes prevent it.
Colleen McCue, a behavioral scientist at GeoEye, a firm that works with US
Homeland Security and local law enforcement on predictive analytics, said
studying criminal behavior was not that different from examining other types of
behavior like shopping.
"People are creatures of habit," she said.
"When you go shopping you go to a place where they have the things you re
looking for... the criminal wants to go where he will be successful also."
She said the technology could help in cities where tight budgets were forcing
patrol reductions.
"When police departments are laying more sworn personnel, they can do more with
less," she said.
The key to success in predictive policing is getting as much data as possible to
determine patterns. This can be especially useful in property crimes like auto
theft and burglary, where patterns can be detected.
"You can build a model that factors in attributes like the time of year, whether
it is hot and humid or cold and snowy, if it is a payday when people are
carrying a lot of cash," says Mark Cleverly, who heads the IBM unit for
predictive crime analytics.
"It s not saying a crime will occur at a particular time and place, no one can
do that. But it can say you can expect a wave of vehicle thefts based one
everything we know."
IBM has worked with dozens of agencies such as London s Metropolitan Police, the
Polish National Police and a number of US and Canadian cities.
In Memphis, officials said serious crimes fell 30 percent and violent crimes
declined 15 percent since implementing predictive analytics in a program with
IBM and the University of Memphis in 2006.

The program known as CRUSH -- Criminal Reduction Utilizing Statistical History
-- targeted certain "hot spots" to allow police to deploy more efficiently.
John Williams, crime analysis manager for the city s police, said the system has
had a dramatic impact, allowing Memphis to get off the list of worst US cities
for crime.
"If the data is indicating a hot spot, we are able to immediately deploy
resources there. And in a lot of instances we are able to make quality arrests
because we re in the right area at the right time," he said.
Although beat officers can use their instincts for similar results, Williams
said the software could be far more precise, such as predicting burglaries in a
small geographic area between 10 pm and 2 am.
In one case, the software was able to help police break up a group that was
committing armed robberies on the city s Hispanic population.
"There were 84 robberies, but we had no idea it was so organized," Williams
said.
By crunching the numbers, police were able to pinpoint the zone and time of
likely holdups: "We caught a group of robbers in progress, we had leads on
additional robberies," he said.
Williams said police officials from as far away as Hong Kong, Rio de Janeiro and
Estonia have come to review the experience in Memphis.
In Los Angeles, another program developed by scientists at the University of
California-Los Angeles and Santa Clara University was tested in a single
precinct, and resulted in a 12 percent drop in crime while the rest of the city
saw a 0.2 percent increase.
That test and others led to the creation of a company called PredPol.
And Los Angeles will expand its use of the program under contract with PredPol,
said CEO Caleb Baskin.
Baskin said the system is based on a model from mathematician George Mohler
which "is very effective in predicting the time and location for crimes that
have not yet taken place."
PredPol had begun working with other cities in California and "we ve had
inquiries from a lot of places in the US and international locations," Baskin
said.
"The science that underlies the tool will work anywhere. The question is does
the agency maintain a database that we can plug into."
While use of such analytics generally wins plaudits for helping "smarter"
policing, it does raise concerns about Big Brother-like snooping.
Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, a law professor at the University of the District of
Columbia, said the use of technology could be positive but that it could lower
the threshold for constitutional protections on "unreasonable" searches.

"To stop you and frisk you and search you, a police officer needs reasonable
suspicion, so my question is how will this affect reasonable suspicion " he
said.
If the search is based on a computer algorithm, Ferguson said, and the case
comes to court, "How do you cross-examine a computer "
IBM s Cleverly said the technology can in many cases improve privacy.
"You can pinpoint the record of who has access to information, you have a solid
history of what s going on, so if someone is using the system for ill you have
an audit trail," he said.
As for "The Minority Report" and its predictive software, Cleverly said, "It was
a great film and great short story, but it s science fiction and will remain
science fiction. That s not what this is about."
(Follow timesofoman.com on Facebook and on Twitter for updates that you can
share with your friends.)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2012 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

'Predictive policing' takes byte out of crime

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 988 words


don't cut

Rob Lever

Agence France-Presse

Washington

Crime fighters have long used brains and brawn, but now a new kind of technology
known as "predictive policing" promises to make them more efficient.

A growing number of law enforcement agencies, in the US and elsewhere, have been
adopting software tools with predictive analytics, based on algorithms that aim
to predict crimes before they happen.

The concept sounds like something out of science fiction thriller "Minority
Report", the 2002 Steven Spielberg film based on a Philip K Dick story.

Without some of the sci-fi gimmickry, police departments from Santa Cruz,
California, to Memphis, Tennessee, and law enforcement agencies from Poland to
Britain have adopted these new techniques.

The premise is simple. Criminals follow patterns, and with software â[#x20ac]"
the same kind that retailers such as Wal-Mart and Amazon use to determine
consumer-purchasing trends â[#x20ac]" police can determine where the next crime
will occur and sometimes prevent it.

Colleen McCue, a behavioural scientist at GeoEye, a firm that works with US
Homeland Security and local law enforcement on predictive analytics, said
studying criminal behaviour was not that different from examining other types of
behaviour like shopping.

"People are creatures of habit," she said.

"When you go shopping you go to a place where they have the things you're
looking for... the criminal wants to go where he will be successful also."

She said the technology could help in cities where tight budgets were forcing
patrol reductions.

"When police departments are laying (off) more sworn personnel, they can do more
with less," she said.

The key to success in predictive policing is getting as much data as possible to
determine patterns. This can be especially useful in property crimes like auto
theft and burglary, where patterns can be detected.

"You can build a model that factors in attributes like the time of year, whether
it is hot and humid or cold and snowy, if it is a pay-day when people are
carrying a lot of cash," says Mark Cleverly, who is the head of the IBM unit for
predictive crime analytics.

"It's not saying a crime will occur at a particular time and place, no one can
do that. But it can say you can expect a wave of vehicle thefts based on
everything we know."

IBM has worked with dozens of agencies such as London's Metropolitan Police, the
Polish National Police and a number of US and Canadian cities.

In Memphis, officials said serious crimes fell 30 per cent and violent crimes
declined 15 per cent since implementing predictive analytics in a programme with
IBM and the University of Memphis in 2006.

The program known as CRUSH â[#x20ac]" Criminal Reduction Utilising Statistical
History â[#x20ac]"targeted certain "hot spots" to allow police to deploy more
efficiently.

John Williams, crime analysis manager for the city's police, said the system has
had a dramatic impact, allowing Memphis to get off the list of worst US cities
for crime.

'Quality arrests'

"If the data is indicating a hot spot, we are able to immediately deploy
resources there. And in a lot of instances we are able to make quality arrests
because we're in the right area at the right time," he said.

Although beat officers can use their instincts for similar results, Williams
said the software could be far more precise, such as predicting burglaries in a
small geographic area between the hours of 10pm and 2am.

In one case, the software was able to help police break up a group that was
committing armed robberies on the city's Hispanic population.

"There were 84 robberies, but we had no idea it was so organised," Williams
said.

By crunching the numbers, police were able to pinpoint the zone and time of
likely hold-ups. "We caught a group of robbers in progress, we had leads on
additional robberies," he said.

Williams said police officials from as far away as Hong Kong, Rio de Janeiro and
Estonia have come to review the experience in Memphis.

In Los Angeles, another program developed by scientists at the University of
California-Los Angeles and Santa Clara University was tested in a single
precinct.

The result was a 12-per-cent drop in crime while the rest of the city saw a
0.2-per-cent increase.

That test and others led to the creation of a company called PredPol.

And Los Angeles will expand its use of the programme under contract with
PredPol, said CEO Caleb Baskin.

Baskin said the system is based on a model from mathematician George Mohler
which "is very effective in predicting the time and location for crimes that
have not yet taken place".

PredPol had begun working with other cities in California and "we've had
inquiries from a lot of places in the US and international locations", Baskin
said.

"The science that underlies the tool will work anywhere. The question is does
the agency maintain a database that we can plug into."

While use of such analytics generally wins plaudits for helping "smarter"
policing, it does raise concerns about Big Brother-like snooping.

Andrew Ferguson, a law professor at the University of the District of Columbia,
said the use of technology could be positive but that it could lower the
threshold for constitutional protections on "unreasonable" searches.

"To stop you and frisk you and search you, a police officer needs reasonable
suspicion, so my question is how will this affect reasonable suspicion?" he
said.

If the search is based on a computer algorithm, Ferguson said, and the case
comes to court, "How do you cross-examine a computer?"

IBM's Cleverly said the technology can in many cases improve privacy.

"You can pinpoint the record of who has access to information, you have a solid
history of what's going on, so if someone is using the system for ill you have
an audit trail," he said.

As for "Minority Report" and its predictive software, Cleverly said, "It was a
great film and great short story, but it's science fiction and will remain
science fiction. That's not what this is about."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                              KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

USC Gets New Safety Measures in Wake of Student Slayings

BYLINE: KTLA-TV, Los Angeles

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


April 26--EXPOSITION PARK, Calif. -- Police and USC officials have announced
additional safety measures in the wake of the shooting deaths of two graduate
students.

International students Ying Wu and Ming Qu, both 23, were gunned down about a
mile from campus in the early morning hours of April 11.

Then, exactly a week later, A USC Department of Public Safety officer shot and
wounded a suspect near fraternity row, minutes after witnesses say he robbed
four students at gunpoint.

L.A. Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa joined LAPD Chief Charlie Beck and USC President
C.L. Max Nikias at a news conference Tuesday morning to discuss security
concerns.

The university is working alongside the LAPD and the city to improve safety for
faculty and students.

USC will increase the number of public safety patrol cars and officers in the
neighborhoods near campus.

It has also invested in video cameras, license plate recognition cameras and
"security ambassadors" to patrol the streets bordering the campus.

One of those ambassadors will cover the popular route from fraternity row on
28th street to the 901 Bar and Grill on Figueroa Street.

Additionally, the university plans to will provide new websites and orientation
sessions to teach students how to stay safe.

USC is also working with the LAPD and the city to trim trees and brighten street
lights.

The LAPD has committed additional patrol cars and has agreed to increase its
data sharing with USC's Department of Public Safety.

It also has plans for "predictive policing" in the area. Basically, that
involves using sophisticated algorithms to predict and prevent crime.

The murders of Wu and Qu have also raised concerns about the availability of
affordable and safe student housing.

They were gunned down while sitting in a BMW in front of the house where Wu
rented a room, which is outside USC's public patrol area.

Students pay as much as $2,500 a month for a one bedroom apartment in the area
monitored by patrols and cameras.

Friends said Wu chose to live in the neighborhood to save money.

Wu apparently had concerns about safety, however, and planned to move next
semester.

USC says it plans to add 5,000 additional student-housing beds.

The first phase is redeveloping the University Village, which will provide 3,000
of those beds for graduate students.

A $200,000 reward is still being offered in connection with the murders of Wu
and Qu.

Anyone with information is asked to call investigators with Southwest Area
Homicide at (213) 485-2417.

Anonymous callers can contact Crimestoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS (800-222-8477).

___ (c)2012 KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) Visit KTLA-TV (Los Angeles) at www.ktla.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120426-5LA-USC-Gets-New-Safety-Measures-in-Wake-of-Student-Slayings-0426-20120
426

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5LA


                                 Copyright 2012


                               10 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2012 Georgia State University
                      Georgia State University Law Review

                                  Summer, 2012

                      Georgia State University Law Review

                           28 Ga. St. U.L. Rev. 1193

LENGTH: 18478 words

ARTICLE: THE GREAT RECESSION AND ITS IMPLICATIONS FOR COMMUNITY POLICING

NAME: Matthew J. Parlow *

BIO:


* Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Associate Professor of Law, Marquette
University Law School; J.D., Yale Law School; B.A., Loyola Marymount University.
I would like to thank Mary Ellen Archer Lighthiser and the other editors of the
Georgia State University Law Review for inviting me to speak at their symposium
entitled "The Criminal Justice System in a Time of Economic Meltdown: Crisis or
Opportunity for Reform?" as well as for their research and editing assistance;
Professor Janine Kim for her comments on an earlier draft of this article; Brian
Guyer, Emily Hinkens, Dieter Juedes, Sam Liverseed, and Sarah Matt for their
research assistance; and Marquette University Law School for its financial
support.

HIGHLIGHT: During the last twenty years, community policing has been the
dominant approach to local law enforcement. Community policing is based, in
part, on the broken windows theory of public safety. The broken windows theory
suggests a link between low-level crime and violent crime--that is, if minor
offenses are allowed to pervade a community, they will lead to a proliferation
of crime and, ultimately, a community plagued by violent crime. To maintain a
perception of community orderliness, many local governments adopted "order
maintenance" laws--such as panhandling ordinances and antihomeless statutes.
This emphasis on cracking down on such low-level offenses brought with it an
increase in the needs and costs of policing, prosecutions, jails, social
services, and other related resources.

   When the economy was flourishing, local governments were able to pay for the
time- and resource-intensive broken windows approach to community policing. The
Great Recession, however, has forced localities to think critically about
whether they can sustain these practices given budget cuts. This Article
analyzes the effects that the downturn in the economy has had on public safety
budgets and the changes that many local governments have made, and are
continuing to make, to adjust to decreasing revenue and resources. This Article
will also explore proposed changes to the current criminal justice and social
service systems that seek cost-effective approaches to deliver the same level of
public safety to which communities are accustomed. In particular, this Article
will assess and evaluate evidence-based decision-making--an emerging trend in
some criminal justice systems--as part of an evolving trend driven by the
effects of the Great Recession, but also stemming out of community policing.
Finally, this Article will use Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, as an example of an
evidence-based decision-making approach and explain how it can fulfill the
public safety goals of the broken windows theory of community policing while
creating a framework that provides for "smart" decision-making that accounts for
the financial realities that most cities face.

TEXT:
 [*1195]  I. INTRODUCTION

   The last fifteen to twenty years has brought a paradigm shift in local
policing efforts--moving from a reactive approach to a proactive one marked by
community engagement and proble-moriented policing processes. This shift spawned
the rise of community policing as a dominant trend in local policing. Community
policing is, in part, based on the seminal work of George L. Kelling and James
Q. Wilson's Broken Windows.  n1 The broken windows theory links minor public
disorders--vagrancy, public drunkenness, and panhandling, to name a few--to
violent crime: If such small offenses are allowed to pervade a community, they
will inevitably escalate and lead to a community plagued by violent crime.
Building on social psychology theory, the broken windows theory views
maintaining a perception of community orderliness--by cracking down on low-level
criminal offenses to stop their proliferation or escalation--as central to
keeping that community safe. Community policing was designed on these premises,
and thus many local governments adopted "order maintenance" laws such as
panhandling ordinances, anti-gang statutes, anti-homeless statutes, and
anti-loitering laws, to take aim at maintaining order in their communities. This
focus on low-level offenses led to increases in prosecutions and a demand for
attendant needs such as jails, prisons, and other social services related to the
criminal justice system. This trend in local policing also coincided with a wave
of "tough on crime" political rhetoric and policies.

   The Great Recessions  n2 --and the related budget deficits faced by many
local governments--are forcing local governments  n3 to think  [*1196]
critically about their commitment to community policing and the costs associated
with it. Can this dominant approach to local policing remain intact with the
economic realities faced by local governments? Or might new local policing
philosophies align with fledgling movements in the criminal justice and social
service systems that seek to make difficult but cost-efficient decisions
regarding the allocation of scarce resources? This Article explores these
questions to determine what changes are in store for local governments due to
the current economic crisis and what their implications are for localities. This
Article will also examine the proposed changes to the criminal justice and
social service systems that seek cost-efficient approaches that hark back to a
rehabilitative approach to low-level criminals--in somewhat stark contrast to
the "tough on crime" rhetoric that has pervaded the political debate. Finally,
this Article will assess and evaluate the broader implications of these
coalescing trends on local policing and criminal justice and social service
systems.

   Part II of this Article provides an overview of community policing, the most
prevalent model of policing today. Part III briefly describes the broken windows
theory, which serves as a foundational basis for this model of policing. Part IV
describes some of the costs of community policing--both for local governments
and arrestees. Part V explores how the financial downturn marked by the Great
Recession has affected local government funding and describes the difficult
funding choices communities face--related to police services and more
generally--because of these changed circumstances. Part VI analyzes how cities
have responded to reduced funding in both traditional and nontraditional
manners. Part VII reflects on how these difficult economic times may provide an
opportunity for a more creative, holistic approach to policing and social
services--in the form of evidence-based decision-making--that remains consistent
with the broken windows theory of community policing while adjusting to the
realities of current local government budgets. Part VII uses Milwaukee County as
an example of how some localities are embracing evidence-based decision-making
[*1197]  to reinvent their criminal justice system during these challenging
economic times. Part VIII will provide some concluding thoughts.

   II. COMMUNITY POLICING

   The term "community policing" has no settled definition. While the goal of
this Article is not to delve into the various iterations and characteristics
that collectively define community policing, a working definition and
understanding proves helpful for the purposes of the forthcoming analysis.
Community policing is a theoretical and practical approach to policing that
focuses on crime prevention, order maintenance, and partnership with the
community to achieve these goals.  n4 The United States Department of Justice's
Office of Community Oriented Police Services defines community policing as "a
philosophy that promotes organizational strategies, which support the systematic
use of partnerships and problem-solving techniques, to proactively address the
immediate conditions that give rise to public safety issues such as crime,
social disorder, and fear of crime."  n5 As described further below, community
policing shepherded in a new model of policing that valued decentralization,
deep community  [*1198]  partnerships, a problem-solving approach to crime and
crime prevention, and citizen satisfaction.  n6

   Community policing rose to prominence in the 1980s after a general consensus
formed that police-community relationships were severely strained and that there
was a need for a different paradigm for the legitimacy and effectiveness of
local police forces.  n7 The traditional model of the "warrior" police
officer--"the detached, aloof crime-fighter"--battling the enemy (that is, the
public) was one that had sown deep resentment in many communities.  n8 Law
enforcement organizations thus sought to change their image and partner with
their respective communities to better achieve a mutual goal: a safe environment
within which to work and live.  n9 At the same time, new research emerged that
called into question the efficacy of traditional policing theories and
practices. Studies questioned whether some of the tenets of policing leading up
to the 1980s were effective: increasing the number of passive patrols in a
neighborhood; random and saturation patrols; and an emphasis on rapid response
times for 911 calls.  n10 Finally, crimes rates were also on the rise during
this time, which led to considerable fear in many neighborhoods.  n11 The
confluence of these three forces--the rise in crime, poor relationships between
many police departments and their communities, and research questioning the
effectiveness of traditional police strategies--led to an environment where a
paradigm shift to community policing could, and did, occur.

   Community policing thus ushered in an approach to policing that deemphasized
the "us against them" and "warrior police officer versus the enemy" view and
focused instead on collaboration and partnership with the community.  n12 In
this model, instead of patrolling  [*1199]  neighborhoods in cars, police
officers walk a beat within a neighborhood so that they are visible, easily
accessible to the community, and better able to develop strong ties with
community stakeholders.  n13 The collaborative emphasis of community policing
provides the community with an opportunity to provide input regarding the
services that it receives and the types of problems it would like addressed.
n14 Community policing thus embraces collaboration with various community
stakeholders: neighborhood groups, grass-roots organizations, property owners,
businesses, other government officials and agencies, and the like. In making
common cause, the community can define its social norms and values. Partnering
with the police department ensures that those norms are inculcated and respected
in the community and enforced by the police.  n15 This approach also allows the
police and those they serve to tailor specific solutions to the problems and
challenges facing their particular community.  n16

   This ability for the community to help inform police decision-making comports
with the problem-oriented approach to policing that this model encourages.
Indeed, community policing envisions a problem-oriented approach where police
officers collaborate with key stakeholders in a community. This collaboration
identifies disorders and then devises solutions that seek to solve the
underlying problems.  n17 As discussed in Part VII, not all of these underlying
[*1200]  problems are necessarily crime related. Consequently, community
policing expects that the police department will engage and collaborate with
other governmental and social services agencies to help address these problems.
n18 With the financial constraints affecting local governments today, this
holistic approach to addressing disorder and its underlying problems may prove
of even greater importance in maintaining community policing and attempting to
stay true to the broken windows theory that underlies it.

   III. BROKEN WINDOWS THEORY

   The broken windows theory of policing provides one of the key philosophical
foundations for community policing.  n19 George L. Kelling and James Q. Wilson
first outlined the theory in their seminal 1982 article.  n20 In the article,
the authors describe a Newark, New Jersey neighborhood that implemented a police
foot patrol after many years of having only vehicle control.  n21 The foot
patrol officer kept order in the neighborhood by encouraging normatively
desirable behavior. For example, the officer would not allow drunks to sleep on
the main streets--rather, only in alleys--and he arrested people for breaking
informal rules of vagrancy.  n22 Interestingly, while the neighborhood did not,
in fact, see a reduction in crime after the implementation of the foot patrol,
residents nevertheless felt safe and perceived that crime rates had dropped.
n23 This story served as the  [*1201]  conduit for Kelling and Wilson to develop
their theory linking disorder to violent crime.

   While acknowledging that for many the link seems tenuous at best, Kelling and
Wilson claim that "at the community level, disorder and crime are usually
inextricably linked, in a kind of developmental sequence."  n24 To this end, the
authors theorize that if small infractions such as vagrancy, public drunkenness,
and panhandling--the broken windows--are allowed to pervade a community, then
crime in the area will further proliferate, and the neighborhood will eventually
be riddled with violent crime.  n25 These obvious and visible signs of disorder
undermine the social, law-abiding norms in a community.  n26 The disorder
signals that the community either cannot or will not enforce basic social
norms--a clear indication of a breakdown of community control.  n27 If a
community is unwilling or unable to enforce social norms, it provides a
reasonable inference to both criminals and law-abiding citizens that the
community similarly will not or cannot prevent more serious crimes.  n28 This
disorder leads criminals to commit more serious crimes in greater numbers and
instills fear in the law-abiding stakeholders in the community. Conversely, if
criminals see more arrests for drunkenness, driving violations, or other
disruptions of order, they will believe arrest is more likely and thus will be
deterred from committing crimes.  n29  [*1202]  Indeed, as Professor Dan M.
Kahan points out, "[I]ndividuals are much more likely to commit crimes when they
perceive that criminal activity is widespread."  n30 If there is no visible
communal moral rebuke of small crimes, people in the community will likely
engage in such behavior themselves because they perceive such actions to be
acceptable--with low risks and potentially high payoffs.  n31

   Social psychology supports the broken windows theory. If people see a
weakening in the orderliness of a system, they begin to doubt whether they can
do anything to prevent such disorder.  n32 This doubt feeds on itself, causing
those in a disorderly neighborhood to be less likely to report a crime because
they think the police will not respond in time or will not be able to do
anything about the situation.  n33 This devolving cycle leads to more crimes as
those before them go unreported and unpunished.  n34 The increase in crimes is
also accompanied by a greater seriousness in the type of crimes that are
committed. In this regard, disorder leads to citizen fear, which causes citizens
to physically and socially withdraw.  n35 Such withdrawal spurs increased
predatory behavior and rising crime rates--leading to a spiral of decline in the
neighborhood.  n36 Therefore, according to the broken windows theory, a
community must address disorder early on so as to prevent the spiral of decline
from eventually occurring.

   The broken windows theory thus spurred policing responses that sought to
crack down on low-level criminal offenses to stop their  [*1203]  proliferation,
escalation, or both.  n37 For when police enforce basic social norms, and when
community stakeholders both obey and embrace such norms, the community signals
to criminals and law-abiding citizens alike that it is intolerant of criminal
behavior.  n38 This positive messaging, broken windows theorists posit, helps
avoid the downward spiral that communities with rampant disorder experience.
Accordingly, police seeking to adopt broken windows policing strategies target
both social and physical disorder. Social disorder includes loitering,
vandalism, gangs, public drinking, drug dealing, prostitution, and street
harassment.  n39 Physical disorder encompasses building abandonment, graffiti,
litter on the streets and sidewalks, abandoned cars, junk and garbage in vacant
lots, and the like.  n40 These small quality-of-life crimes "contribute to a
sense of disorder and danger on the street."  n41 Many communities thus adopted
order maintenance laws such as panhandling ordinances, anti-gang statutes,
anti-homeless statutes, anti-loitering statutes, and vagrancy statutes to target
these forms of disorder and avoid the devolution toward crime that the broken
windows theory describes.  n42 Police departments even used civil laws like
nuisance abatement and forfeiture laws to address and prevent these
quality-of-life criminal activities.  n43 This approach supports the social
influence theory's focus on how a community's norms and behavior affect its
conduct and the conduct of others  [*1204]  entering the community.  n44
Therefore, by adopting order maintenance laws, communities can use social
influence to discourage criminality.  n45

   However, this social influence aspect of the broken windows theory is
oftentimes misunderstood in community policing literature. As Professor K. Babe
Howell notes, "[O]rder-maintenance policing as described in Broken Windows
neither demands nor suggests that zero tolerance arrest policies are efficient,
desirable, or effective methods to achieve order and reduce fear."  n46 In fact,
the broken windows approach to community policing is not entirely based on
arrests. For example, the police officer in the Broken Windows article did not
arrest people, but rather enforced social norms by breaking up arguments and
asking drunks to move to different areas.  n47 Indeed, under this approach,
police seek to employ non-arrest approaches and interventions--such as
discussion, persuasion, negotiation, counseling, and ordering--in an attempt to
ameliorate the problem without making an arrest.  n48 Nevertheless, despite this
philosophical and practical approach to non-arrest interventions, the broken
windows theory has led to a significant number of arrests for relatively minor
offenses during the community policing era.  n49

   IV. THE COSTS OF COMMUNITY POLICING

   Whether police attempt arrest or non-arrest solutions, the broken windows
approach to community policing requires significant expenditures and resources
by local governments.  n50 Foot patrols, while beneficial for establishing
better community relationships, are  [*1205]  less efficient for police in terms
of patrolling portions of the city. In this regard, a police department needs
more police officers than it previously did to maintain such a visible presence
in the community. With the shift to community policing, police officers spend
more time attending community meetings and developing personal relationships
with key stakeholders in the neighborhood in order to help understand the
community's challenges and devise strategies for addressing them. While an
effective use of the police officer's time in the theoretical construct of
community policing, such efforts are time-intensive and require more dedicated
officers from a police force than previous approaches to policing did.

   Moreover, the broken windows approach to community policing inevitably leads
to arrests for the various low-level criminal offenses that lead to disorder in
a community. There are also tremendous hidden costs in the time, money, and
personnel required for "extra arrests" and the costs to the local criminal
justice system in processing and prosecuting each misdemeanor.  n51 The police
department, the district attorney's or city attorney's offices, the public
defenders' offices, and the local court system all spend a significant amount of
resources to process these minor offenses through the criminal justice system.
n52 For example, many police departments face substantial overtime expenses to
pay for police officers and other staff to process the increase in these
quality-of-life criminal arrests.  n53 There are also other externalized costs
borne by the city, and taxpayers more broadly, when an arrest and criminal
record leads an individual down the all-too-common spiral of multiple subsequent
arrests, incarceration, and unemployment.  n54

   This is to say nothing of the significant costs to the individual arrested
for these low-level, quality-of-life crimes. The arrestee loses significant
time, money, and opportunity each time he or she is  [*1206]  booked for a
misdemeanor. He or she typically misses two to four days of work (or school),
which may lead to a loss of employment, and the arrestee must also pay the
processing fees for being arrested.  n55 The criminal record that such an
arrestee may wind up with can prevent that person from getting a loan for a car,
a house, or schooling--thus limiting his or her options and potentially leading
that person back to committing more crimes.  n56 The arrestee--and possibly his
or her family--could be kicked out of public housing.  n57 All of these costs on
the individual affect the community as well. While the broken windows approach
to community policing may decrease fear in the community, it might also result
in economic ruin for the arrestee and thus create an even more desperate
criminal.  n58 These costs have become more magnified in the past few years as
the Great Recession has taken a devastating toll on the economy more generally
and local government budgets more specifically.

   V. LOCAL GOVERNMENT FUNDING AND THE GREAT RECESSION

A. Sources of Local Government Funding

   Local governments receive funding from six main sources: taxes, federal
government assistance, state government assistance, special assessments, fees
and fines, and borrowing.  n59 While local governments do not have an inherent
power to levy taxes, states grant localities the power to tax through their
constitutions, statutes, and local home rule charter provisions.  n60 However,
the local government power to tax is often quite limited and not universally
enjoyed in every state.  n61 The most common and universal form of local
[*1207]  government tax is the property tax, while some localities are also able
to garner funds through taxes related to sales and other excise taxes, local
income, use, and licenses.  n62

   Due to these limited taxation sources of revenue, local governments rely on
the other aforementioned sources of non-tax revenues to help meet their budgets.
The federal government has historically given substantial financial aid to local
governments through block grants--categorical grants aimed at funding particular
programs, with specific requirements and conditions attached--which gave local
governments more discretion to use such funds for a variety of policy areas.
n63 State governments also provide funding to local governments through direct
revenue sharing, education budgets, and grants-in-aid (for specific purposes or
uses).  n64 Special assessments allow local governments to raise revenue by
funding a community improvement--such as infrastructure projects--by assessing a
fee to those property owners who will benefit from it.  n65 Localities also
charge various fees and fines on businesses, individuals, properties, and other
entities for various regulatory, licensing, permitting, and user purposes.  n66
Finally, local governments also obtain money needed to meet their yearly
budgetary obligations by borrowing money and issuing bonds to repay their debt.
n67

B. The Effects of the Great Recession on Public Safety Budgets

   Before the Great Recession began in 2007, these funding sources for local
governments were relatively stable and predictable. However, with the financial
downturn that the United States--and the world more generally--has experienced
in the past several years,  [*1208]  localities experienced severe reductions
from virtually all of their revenue sources that dramatically impacted their
budgets. The federal government significantly cut its funding to local
governments in its attempt to balance its budget and rein in the national debt.
n68 Many state governments cut their funding to local governments--in a variety
of different areas--to help make up budget deficits.  n69 Cities also saw a
significant drop in tax revenues as housing prices dropped, foreclosures
proliferated, and spending (and thus sales taxes) dropped significantly while
unemployment rose and fear of worse financial circumstances lingered.  n70 In
addition, some cities bore additional unexpected costs. Localities in
California, for example, were forced by state law to house prisoners formerly
imprisoned in state facilities in an attempt to save money at the state level.
n71

   Police departments, and public safety budgets more generally, were not immune
to these difficult economic times for local governments. A 2010 study conducted
by the Police Executive Forum revealed that fifty-one percent of police
departments responding to the survey had their budgets cut since the Great
Recession began.  n72 The average cut to police department budgets was seven
percent.  n73 Fifty-nine percent of those respondents also anticipated cuts to
their budgets in 2011.  n74 Another study showed that eight-five percent of
responding police departments had their budgets  [*1209]  cut in 2010, with more
than half of them experiencing a five percent cut and nearly a quarter of them
having a cut of ten percent or more.  n75 Still another study detailed that
seventy-eight percent of responding major city police departments experienced
budget cuts by an average of 5.4%.  n76 As nearly any newspaper in the country
would likely report, police departments--like all other local government
agencies--have experienced, and will likely continue to face, budget cuts during
this economic downturn.

   VI. LOCAL GOVERNMENT RESPONSES AND AN OPPORTUNITY BORN?

A. Traditional Approaches: Cutting Costs and Raising Revenue

   The challenging economic times and attendant budget cuts have forced police
departments to make difficult decisions to balance their budgets. There are
several approaches that are worth analyzing because of their potential impact on
a police department's ability to continue with a broken windows approach to
community policing. Many police departments have laid off officers and made
other reductions in their workforces. Some police departments have experimented
with turning to private security firms for help with police services--or at
least permitting them to operate in certain spheres--and "de-deputizing" certain
police work so that civilian employees can perform those tasks. Other cities and
suburbs have explored combining or regionalizing police services. Finally, many
cities have attempted various cost-saving measures and looked to identify new,
nontraditional revenue sources in an attempt to maintain staffing and service
levels.

    [*1210]  1. Reductions in Police Department Workforces

   To address budget cuts, many police departments have laid off officers, made
other personnel cuts, or left various jobs unfilled.  n77 In fact, the United
States Department of Justice estimated that by the end of 2011, approximately
12,000 officers would have been laid off by police departments and nearly 30,000
law enforcement jobs would go unfilled.  n78 Some examples of police layoffs are
breathtaking. The City of Camden, New Jersey, announced in January 2011 that it
was cutting nearly half of its police force.  n79 The City of Flint, Michigan,
laid off 80 of its 260 police officers due to budget cuts.  n80 The City of
Paterson, New Jersey, eliminated one quarter of its police force--125
officers--to help combat a $ 70 million city budget deficit.  n81 The effects of
such cuts are even more staggering when considering the significant amount of
crime that each of these cities experiences.

   Such a reduction in police officers has forced police departments to alter
and reduce some of their traditional services and practices. Many police
departments are prioritizing emergency calls over non-emergency calls.  n82
Others are making similar, though difficult, decisions on what problems to focus
on given their more limited resources. For example, some departments are no
longer responding to motor vehicle thefts.  n83 The City of Detroit, Michigan,
recently followed the lead of other big cities in no longer responding to
burglar alarms unless the alarm company has verified that there is a  [*1211]
valid alarm.  n84 In a response to a reduction of 165 sworn police officers, the
City of San Jose, California, adopted a "modified response policy" that reduces
the number of police responses to non-emergency situations.  n85 To this end,
the San Jose Police Department (SJPD) no longer responds to noise complaints,
recycling thefts, traffic accidents in which no one is injured, fruit vending
without valid permits, and illegal parking.  n86 The SJPD also followed a
national trend of severely reducing, if not eliminating, its horse-mounted
police force.  n87 Other police departments reduced their investigation
follow-ups with property, computer, and financial crimes; non-felony domestic
assaults; narcotics; and other such crimes.  n88 Some localities are reducing or
eliminating police services for community events such as parades, funerals, and
high school football games.  n89 Finally, cutbacks have forced some police
departments to require residents to file their own reports online or in  [*1212]
writing for lower-level crimes such as break-ins.  n90 With the reductions in
police personnel that many cities are experiencing, some police departments have
no choice but to make such difficult decisions.

2. Partnering with Private Security Firms and Civilianizing Police Work

   Cities and their police departments have also tried to cut costs by working
with private security firms--or at least allowing them to function in certain
capacities and locations.  n91 The use of private security guards in specific
areas of a city--in downtown or particular tourist locations--was not uncommon
before the Great Recession.  n92 However, the recent budget cuts have led some
police departments to collaborate with, or even hire, private security firms to
help them with providing police services. For example, the Minneapolis Police
Department (MPD) collaborates with private security officers in the downtown
business district to help reduce crime through enhanced communication, wireless
cameras placed in strategic locations, and MPD training of these private
security officers.  n93 Cities such as Las Vegas, Nevada; Wilmington, Delaware;
New York City, New York; and Durham, North Carolina, have all collaborated with
private security firms to reduce their costs while maintaining their
effectiveness.  n94 Some cities have even sought to go further than such
collaborations. The City Council in Oakland, California, had originally voted to
hire private armed security guards to patrol high-crime  [*1213]  areas of the
city, but the contract was later rescinded when the company with whom it
contracted, International Services, Inc., was indicted for fraud.  n95 With the
significant cost savings in private security officers compared to sworn public
police officers, it is no wonder that many cities are exploring how they might
use or partner with private security firms.

   Other police departments have increased the duties of civilian workers by
assigning them tasks that deputized police officers have traditionally
performed. By shifting such clerical and non-law-enforcement activities to
civilians, police departments can deploy their sworn officers into the field to
deal with more pressing crime needs.  n96 Some cities have explored
responsibilities for civilians beyond the traditional clerical activities. For
example, the City of Mesa, Arizona, created a civilian investigation unit in
2009 to respond to low-level crimes and conduct investigations.  n97 These
civilian investigators take initial reports and collect DNA and fingerprints at
the crime scene, but they are not armed and do not have the authority to make an
arrest.  n98 The City of Chicago, Illinois, has similarly sought to cut costs by
civilianizing traditional police work, hiring 104 civilian detention aides at
city jails and transferring the police officers stationed there to beat patrols.
n99 Such civilianization has helped many cities save money in an era of
dwindling budgets.  n100

    [*1214]  3. Combining or Regionalizing Police Service

   Some cities and suburbs have explored the idea of combining or regionalizing
police service. Modeled after regional police service approaches in San
Francisco, California; Denver, Colorado; Las Vegas, Nevada; and San Antonio,
Texas, many communities have sought to either merge city police departments and
county sheriff departments or merge small suburban police forces into a regional
police force.  n101 In one survey, twenty-six percent of responding police
departments reported that their county partnered with a neighboring county to
consolidate police service, while another thirty-one percent of respondents have
had discussions with other localities regarding such consolidation.  n102 Other
cities have even disbanded their police departments and contracted with their
local sheriff's department for police services.  n103 While such proposals to
combine or regionalize police services are often met with resistance and
controversy--because of concerns about centralizing a government service as
community-tailored as policing and crime prevention--consolidation,
regionalization, or even outsourcing policing services to the local sheriff's
department may be the most  [*1215]  cost-effective way for some communities to
deal with the current economic times.

4. Cost-Cutting Measures and New Revenue Sources

   Some cities are attempting to counter budget reductions through various
cost-saving measures. For example, Chicago is seeking to curtail the police
department's current sick leave policy and to close underutilized police
stations.  n104 Many police departments have been forced to cut back or
eliminate plans to acquire technology to aid in their work.  n105 Other local
governments have sought to reduce expenses at their jails. Given that medical
costs are the largest service costs for most local government jails, it is
unsurprising that cities have sought to save money on these expenses.  n106 Some
counties have begun treating patients inside of the jails instead of
transferring them to external facilities; switching from name-brand medications
to generic ones; and creating better monitoring of inmate medication
distribution and use to decrease the amount of unused medicine.  n107 Other
local governments have privatized the medical services that they provide in
their jails in an attempt to save money.  n108

   Some counties have sought to reduce the cost of feeding their inmates. For
example, fourteen counties in New York are saving  [*1216]  money by purchasing
"Cook Chill" food products that allow a mere reheating of the food to be served
to inmates.  n109 The switch to this type of food preparation model is estimated
to save these counties an average of $ 730 per inmate per year.  n110 Sauk
County, Wisconsin, no longer provides warm breakfast for inmates and instead
serves only cold cereal--saving approximately $ 50,000 per year.  n111 Polk
County, Florida, eliminated peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, cornbread,
coffee, and juice from its jail menu to save money.  n112 The Sandusky County
Jail in Ohio grows produce in a garden to use for meals in the jail--an effort
that has saved $ 20,000 in food costs.  n113 Some counties have also pursued
privatization of their food services, which will save one county at least $
700,000 per year.  n114

   Local governments have also attempted a hodgepodge of other cost-cutting
measures to address the financial strains their budgets face. To save on
electricity costs, Hays County Jail in Texas moved lights out from 1:30 a.m. to
11:00 p.m.  n115 The Barrow County Detention Center in Georgia mandated that all
incoming and outgoing mail be in the form of postcards to reduce the time spent
on opening and inspecting mail.  n116 Some localities have used inmates for
[*1217]  general labor--such as mowing lawns, shoveling snow, picking up litter,
weeding, maintaining parks, and caring for buildings--which enables them to cut
the costs of these services from their respective budgets.  n117 Finally, some
localities are considering consolidating jails and jail services in order to
save money.  n118 These are just some examples of the lengths that local
governments are going to in order to cut costs given the current budget cuts to
public safety spending.

   Cities are also looking to nontraditional revenue sources in an attempt to
maintain current staffing and service levels. For example, Chicago proposes
raising $ 25 million in new revenue through the reallocation of tax increment
financing (TIF) funds in order to hire 250 new police officers.  n119 Many
localities have used fundraising and community philanthropic efforts to raise
additional revenue.  n120 Several counties in Michigan, Wood County in
Wisconsin, and Riverside County in California have all started billing inmates
for their stay in jail.  n121 Polk County, Florida, now charges male inmates
[*1218]  for underwear--a move that has an estimated savings of $ 45,000 per
year.  n122 Riverside County, California, also plans on charging inmates for
using public defenders.  n123

B. Creative Alternatives to Traditional Incarceration

   Other local governments are using the current budget crises to rethink their
traditional approaches to policing (including the broken windows approach to
community policing), which have focused heavily on incarceration. Indeed, the
financial realities of an incarceration-dominant approach to policing pose an
expensive challenge for most local governments. To illustrate the point: A city
or county often spends $ 100 or more per day to house a criminal (or someone
accused of a crime)--a daunting figure given the increase in the number of
incarcerated individuals in most jails.  n124 It is no wonder, then, that many
localities are rethinking an incarceration-dominated approach to community
policing. But to simply look at the creative alternatives, described below, as
solely money-based would be to oversimplify these cities' and counties'
motivations. As this sub-section and the Milwaukee County experience (detailed
below) demonstrate, those in the criminal justice system in many localities are
seeking to approach the problems of crime and disorder in a smarter and,
arguably, more effective manner than the traditional "tough on crime" ethos that
has pervaded the criminal justice system--and political discourse more
generally--for decades. While the costs of the current system may be a
significant motivating factor  [*1219]  for why these communities are rethinking
their approach to the criminal justice system, the communities' impetus also
stems from a desire to better achieve their goals for a safe community and to
help those who may need social service support to avoid recidivism and problems
in the future.

   Many localities are using house arrest for pretrial detainees, for parolees,
and even as a criminal sentence.  n125 Local governments design these programs
to enable those who commit, or are accused of committing, certain low-level,
nonviolent crimes to serve their sentences at home, monitored by an electronic
ankle bracelet.  n126 One obvious benefit for these localities comes in the form
of cost savings, such as not having to pay for an inmate's health care, food,
and other related expenses. In this regard, the results have been promising thus
far. Scottsdale, Arizona, for example, saved $ 200,000 in the first five weeks
of its electronic monitoring program for drunk driving cases, and Cook County,
Illinois, cut its cost per detainee from $ 142.60 per day to $ 64.74 with
electronic monitoring.  n127

    [*1220]  However, such programs also seek to avoid substantially disrupting
the lives of those accused of crimes or those who have committed low-level
crimes. In doing so, these programs aim to help these people avoid a downward
spiral of more frequent and more serious criminal acts because they have lost
their jobs and support systems. For example, house arrest and electronic
monitoring programs aim to allow these low-risk criminals to hold (or continue
to hold) jobs and enjoy the help and support of their families--factors that can
help these criminals avoid recidivism.  n128 For example, Dallas County, Texas,
saved $ 400,000 in the first year of its house arrest program, and it also saw
273 out of the 281 offenders successfully complete the program.  n129 Through
such programs, local governments seek to help ensure that those accused or
convicted of minor crimes--who are not serious threats to the community--can
maintain some semblance of their normal lives and thus avoid the significant
costs and disruptions that often come with being arrested or convicted of such
low-level crimes.

   Localities are also adopting or expanding alternatives to traditional
incarceration, such as work release and halfway houses. Work release programs
allow nonviolent misdemeanor and low-level felony offenders to maintain jobs in
the community while serving their ordered jail sentence.  n130 In order to be
eligible for and complete a work release program, the convicted criminal must
obtain a written order from a judge, comport with the rules of the program, and
maintain a job.  n131 Some counties have used weekend incarceration and work
release--in conjunction with electronic monitoring--to  [*1221]  enable inmates
to work at county facilities, such as the zoo or veterans' cemetery, and also
allow them to sleep at home after work.  n132 Other counties have linked work
release with halfway homes--a scenario where inmates sleep at the halfway house
at night but leave during the day for their court-approved work.  n133 Finally,
some counties have established day reporting centers for nonviolent
offenders--usually alcohol and drug abusers--who cannot make bail.  n134 Under a
traditional system, these offenders would spend weeks in jail waiting for court
hearings for failure to post bail. Under the day reporting center programs,
these offenders report daily to the center and are subject to random drug tests.
n135 In addition, these offenders receive vocational training and, if they
complete the  [*1222]  program successfully, they can avoid jail altogether and
hopefully avoid recidivism in the future.  n136

   Counties have similarly adopted specialty courts to complement such diversion
programs, in an attempt to help offenders with their underlying problems through
social service programs and to avoid recidivism. Many counties set up these
courts to help channel those whose criminal acts stem from drug addiction or
mental health issues into treatment programs that will help them deal with their
underlying problem. These programs serve as alternatives to simply incarcerating
these individuals and then, in all likelihood, releasing them to commit the same
types of crimes because their underlying disorder was not addressed while in
jail.  n137 For example, the City of Greenwood, Minnesota, uses a program in
which substance abusers enter a recovery court program where the abuser lives at
home but cannot use drugs or alcohol and cannot live with anyone who uses drugs.
n138 Recovery court supervisors randomly show up at the participant's house to
check for alcohol or drug use and ensure compliance with the program's
requirements.  n139 The program also forbids participants from going to
locations where drugs or alcohol are used.  n140 If participants break these
rules, they become subjected to more restrictive rules and may ultimately be
sent to jail.  n141 As this example demonstrates, the purpose of such specialty
courts is to reduce recidivism by helping treat the criminal offender's
underlying  [*1223]  problem, while at the same time saving money by keeping
them out of jail initially.  n142

   As described further below, some local governments are moving to
evidence-based practices to make "smarter" decisions as to how to police their
communities and how to administer their criminal justice system. For example,
Napa County, California, designed a matrix program that rates prisoners on
certain factors to determine who is too dangerous to release before their
sentences end and who is truly nonviolent and could be eligible for diversion or
early release programs.  n143 "Graduates" of the Napa County matrix program have
a 70% employment rate and only a 24% recidivism rate, compared to the statewide
recidivism rate of approximately 70%.  n144 The Napa County model has been so
successful that the American Civil Liberties Union has called upon other
California counties to develop "evidence-based solutions for alternatives to
incarceration and reentry, instead of adding jail beds."  n145

   Finally, many local governments have shifted their operational models to
include enhanced technology that allows police departments to improve their
outcomes and increase efficiency.  n146 Some police departments have begun to
use certain public surveillance systems--such as closed circuit televisions and
light-based intervention systems--that "can act as force multipliers through
incident intervention and crime prevention, without requiring  [*1224]  the
immediate presence of an officer."  n147 Other police departments are using
geographical technology such as the Tactical Automatic Vehicle Locator, which
reduces response times by providing the locations of patrol cars and allowing
commanders to dispatch the closest patrol car with far greater precision and
efficiency.  n148

   Other police departments have taken greater leaps of faith with technology
due to severe budget cuts. For example, the Santa Cruz Police Department (SCPD)
has lost twenty percent of its force since 2000 due to budget cuts.  n149 To
help meet the needs of its community, the SCPD started experimenting with a
predictive policing model.  n150 Based on technology that helps predict
aftershocks of earthquakes, this predictive policing model uses crime data to
identify specific areas, and even specific times, in which crime is most likely
to occur.  n151 This model enables the SCPD to send patrols to certain
"hotspots" each day, which it believes serves as a deterrent and allows for
better responsiveness--and thus likelihood of arrest--when a crime occurs.  n152
Based on the perceived success of the SCPD's predictive policing model, other
cities--such as Los Angeles--are hoping to develop similar models, including
ones that model both property crimes and violent crimes.  n153 In an era of
budget cuts and reduced staffing, such technological advances and other
evidence-based strategies may help evolve community policing from its historical
model to an approach similar in theory, but different in execution.

    [*1225]  VII. EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION-MAKING AND MILWAUKEE COUNTY

A. Evidence-Based Decision-Making

   With the changes and challenges that they have faced during the past several
years, some localities have concluded that they must change their approach to
community policing to continue to be effective in the future. The economic
realities of the Great Recession coalesced with a national sentencing reform
movement--led by the National Center for State Courts (NCSC)--entitled "Getting
Smarter About Sentencing."  n154 Two of the key objectives to this movement were
"to reduce reliance on long-term incarceration as a criminal sanction for those
not posing a substantial danger to the community or committing the most serious
offenders" and "to promote the development, funding, and utilization of
community-based alternatives to incarceration for appropriate offenses."  n155
At the same time, the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) launched its
"Evidence-Based Decision Making in Local Criminal Justice Systems" initiative.
n156 The NIC's initiative was driven by the belief that research could better
inform decision-making in the criminal justice system and that it would lead to
better outcomes for public safety and the community more generally.  n157 In
this regard, the confluence of these events helped bring greater clarity to the
problems, challenges, and needs of many communities and their criminal justice
systems. The goals were also similar and clear: keeping communities safe,
reducing recidivism, being mindful of the costs of an incarceration-first
approach to criminal justice, offender rehabilitation, and providing
community-based alternatives to  [*1226]  incarceration to help low-level
offenders address their underlying problems (such as mental illness or drug or
alcohol addiction).  n158 In short, "How can communities be smarter about
running their criminal justice systems?" Given the changes and movements in the
criminal justice system, evidenced-based decision-making began to gain traction
in some localities.  n159

   Evidence-based decision-making in policing and in the criminal justice system
is modeled on the concept of evidence-based medicine that has been popular in
the health care field and human services fields more broadly.  n160
Evidence-based decision-making seeks to apply the best available evidence from
empirically sound social science research to decision-making in policing and the
criminal justice system more generally.  n161 Through experimentation, data
collection, and qualitative and quantitative analysis, evidence-based
decision-making seeks to identify the exact problem, propose possible solutions
that will address the problem, and analyze and weigh the costs and impacts of
the different solutions before implementation.  n162 In this regard,
evidence-based decision-making  [*1227]  seeks to use data and research of
historical outcomes of previous cases and decisions--such as releasing an
offender on bail and on what terms--and then using this information and those
outcomes to improve decision-making in similar cases in the future.  n163 By
using empirical findings to drive better-informed policies and practices in the
criminal justice system, localities can use evidence-based decision-making in
all aspects of public safety--from policing to arrest to final disposition and
discharge--to alter, and in some cases retool, long-held approaches that are no
longer economically sustainable nor, perhaps, normatively desirable.  n164

   In order to thoroughly inculcate evidence-based decision-making in this
manner, local governments must foster meaningful collaboration between the
partners in the criminal justice system and those entities providing various
social services to the community. There are numerous key decision points with
regard to those who come into contact with the criminal justice system: contact
with a police officer (whether leading to an arrest, detention, treatment,
citation, or release); pretrial status matters (including release on
recognizance, bail, conditions of supervised release, and the like);
prosecutorial discretion (charging, diversion, deferred prosecution, or
dismissal); potential plea bargains; sentencing (length, conditions, etc.);
institutional intervention (for example, regarding treatment); early release
(both with regard to timing and conditions); community intervention (decisions
involving, for example, conditions and supervision); violations of parole or
probation (sanctions, treatment, and the like); and discharge from the criminal
justice system.  n165 There are numerous decision-makers and key stakeholders in
the criminal justice system and the social service system that may have
important overlap with problems experienced in the realm of public  [*1228]
safety: law enforcement officers (police, sheriffs, and the like); attorneys
(prosecutors, public defenders, and other defense attorneys); pretrial
officials; court administrators; judges; victim advocates; probation and parole
officers; local elected and appointed officials; state legislators; social
service providers (for example, those who treat alcohol and drug addiction);
other local government agencies that collaborate with those in the criminal
justice system or are affected by their decisions; and community stakeholders
(such as civic leaders, faith-based groups, and the like).  n166 Given these
various and interconnected decision points and the significant number of
decision-makers and stakeholder groups, a locality's emphasis on collaboration
is critical to achieving the effectiveness and efficiency sought by
evidence-based decision-making.

   Such collaboration may involve the police working with prosecutors and other
law enforcement professionals to solve a problem--oftentimes a solution along
the lines of a traditional enforcement strategy such as arresting an individual
and prosecuting a crime.  n167 However, under the evidence-based decision-making
approach, law enforcement will also look to other governmental agencies for
assistance in solving various problems. For example, a community prosecutor
might work with a city's building department to identify code violations when
targeting a drug house.  n168 However, under this model, interagency
collaboration also seeks to be proactive to solve a community's problems before
they occur or in a manner that addresses the underlying cause of the
externalized problems so that they dissipate over time. For example, having
identified that almost half of the violent crime victims in the city are
teenagers, Chicago has sought to expand after-school and summer programs to
engage at-risk youth in positive activities.  n169 Moreover, as discussed
[*1229]  above, the alternatives to incarceration for those offenders who are
mentally ill or suffer from drug or alcohol addiction also provide examples of
such collaboration between those in the criminal justice system and social
service providers. Finally, and perhaps most relevant from a macro-level
perspective, these various stakeholders and decision-makers must collaborate to
determine how the research they have compiled and analyzed guides their
decision-making at the various decision points in the criminal justice system to
further their goals, set their priorities, and allocate their resources. Such
collaboration can lead to many of the types of alternatives to
incarceration--described above--that localities have implemented.

   There is no doubt that part of what drives this evidence-based
decision-making approach is the recognition that with declining revenues and
budget cuts, police departments and criminal justice systems must stretch their
resources to do more with less.  n170 In doing so, evidence-based
decision-making strives to improve the outcomes--and the efficiency and
effectiveness--of the criminal justice system while also saving money. In this
regard, evidence-based decision-making may help local governments remain
consistent with the broken windows theory of community policing, while
addressing the problems presented by the Great Recession.  n171

B. Questions, Concerns, Criticisms, and Challenges

   To be sure, with evidence-based decision-making still in its infancy in
policing and in the criminal justice system, there are still many questions,
concerns, and challenges that must be answered and resolved.  n172 For example,
politics still plays--and will likely continue  [*1230]  to play--a critical
role in policing and the criminal justice system, as politicians do not want to
be labeled "soft on crime." Political decision-making on public safety matters
does not always comport with decisions based on social science research. Indeed,
political decisions regarding public safety matters can be spurred by irrational
public "moral panics"--that is, a horrible crime that leads to "an emotional
wave of public repugnance and a demand for quick political action."  n173 Such
reactive political decision-making may not always be grounded in social science
research, but rather a popular political fix that assures the community that its
public officials are doing what constituents think is best--whether or not the
data and research support that reaction.

   Another challenge for the adoption of evidence-based decision-making--either
from a normative and/or logistical standpoint--is that there are such divergent
visions and philosophies for the optimal approach to public safety and the
criminal justice system.  n174 This reality is exacerbated by the fact that
there is a power imbalance among the various agencies and stakeholders in the
criminal justice system, which makes the collaboration described above even more
challenging.  n175 To add to this difficulty, there is systemic fragmentation in
the way that various states and local governments choose to structure and run
their respective criminal justice systems.  n176 This lack of uniformity creates
a logistical impediment to the emergence of a broad evidence-based
decision-making movement, as one model cannot be so easily replicated in most,
if not every, jurisdiction.  n177

    [*1231]  Finally, evidence is not always clear and can even be contradictory
at times, so there is still a need for good old-fashioned judgment in making
decisions involving policies, programs, resources, and the like in policing and
the criminal justice system--judgment that will, no doubt, draw criticism from
those who do not favor the decisions made. Moreover, in the criminal justice
field, there has not been a deeply embedded research and knowledge-based
culture, which may lead to great resistance in adopting evidence-based
decision-making.  n178 Even if desired, such a cultural shift may prove even
more difficult because the leadership in many criminal justice organizations do
not have the training necessary to effect organizational change.  n179
Nevertheless, despite these criticisms, questions, and challenges--for the
reasons detailed above--several localities have moved to adopt evidence-based
decision-making in their police departments and criminal justice systems more
generally as part of an evolution of their approach to community policing.

C. Milwaukee County: A Leader in Evidence-Based Decision-Making

   Milwaukee County in Wisconsin (Milwaukee) is one of three local governments
from around the country that won a grant competition sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Justice's National Institute of Corrections (NIC) to encourage and
help fund the adoption of more evidence-based decision-making in the local
criminal justice system.  n180 Through the Milwaukee County Community Justice
[*1232]  Council (MCCJC)--a collaboration and partnership between the various
partners in the criminal justice system--Milwaukee has sought to adopt and
implement evidence-based decision-making over the past few years.  n181 The
MCCJC's guiding principle in this endeavor has been the following: "[I]n
assessing an offender's risk of reoffense and criminogenic needs, and in
matching offenders with the appropriate supervision, treatment and jail
resources, systems like ours should employ instruments built on actuarial data,
as opposed to professional judgment alone."  n182 Indeed, by using data and
research--described further below--Milwaukee believes it can reduce the number
of people being held in jails or prisons, save significant amounts of money, and
maintain or even improve the level of public safety to which the community is
accustomed.  n183 Moreover, consistent with one of the key tenets of
evidence-based decision-making, the MCCJC brings together a vast array of
partners and stakeholders in the Milwaukee criminal justice system: the Chief
Judge of the Milwaukee County Courts; the City Attorney of Milwaukee; the
District Attorney of Milwaukee County; the Sheriff of Milwaukee County; the
Mayor of Milwaukee; the Chief Executive of Milwaukee County; the Health and
Human Services Director of the County; the Chief of the Milwaukee Police
Department; and representatives from community organizations, social service
providers, and the state legislature.  n184 While the collaborative group's
members have not agreed on all matters at all times, they are united  [*1233]
in advancing a meaningful and ambitious evidence-based decision-making approach
to the criminal justice system.  n185

   With the NIC grant, Milwaukee seeks to dramatically expand its evidence-based
decision-making, particularly in four key areas. First, based on promising
results from pilot projects in previous years, the Milwaukee Police Department
will train more of its field officers, booking officers, and dispatchers as to
how to respond effectively to those who are mentally ill and to improve
communication with others in the criminal justice system--those in jails,
prosecutors, defense attorneys, and court officials--regarding the challenges
that these individuals will face as they progress through the system.  n186 The
MCCJC will also be able to identify those chronic offenders with mental illness
who account for the majority of police service calls and help them seek
treatment for their underlying condition to avoid future problems.  n187 To
gauge its success in this effort, the MCCJC has set a goal that by the end of
2013 it will have reduced by 25% those suffering from a mental illness who lose
their benefits or housing for being jailed, and increase by 25% those who have a
mental illness who reconnect with services they need within twenty days of
arrest.  n188

   Second, the MCCJC intends to use and enhance the information it has to help
identify cases that will likely be successful in a diversion program or in a
deferred prosecution scenario.  n189 The MCCJC will use assessment tools to
gauge the risks and needs of offenders and negotiate the diversion or deferred
prosecution agreement accordingly.  n190 In addition, it will create an
evidence-based matrix  [*1234]  that delineates incentives and sanctions to
ensure compliance with this approach.  n191 To evaluate the efficacy of this
program, the MCCJC has set a three-fold goal by the end of 2013: (1) increasing
by 15% the number of pretrial detainees safely released and/or supervised in the
community as opposed to jail; (2) saving $ 1 million in the process; and (3)
reducing by a minimum of 40% the number of defendants who fail to follow
pretrial rules.  n192

   Third, the MCCJC seeks to aggressively change its risk-needs management of
its pretrial population. Currently, Milwaukee's bail hearings are done in an ad
hoc fashion where decisions are made largely on the basis of the current charge,
the defendant's criminal history, and the judge's intuition and professional
judgment.  n193 The MCCJC has studied other jurisdictions' approaches to
pretrial decisions and has developed a new protocol for conducting a risk
assessment for each individual as he or she enters the criminal justice system.
n194 Based on the data and evidence from other jurisdictions, this protocol will
award points to a person based on factors such as the number of previous
criminal cases in which the person was involved, the person's record for
appearing in court in those cases, and whether he or she is employed or is a
primary caregiver.  n195 Depending on the number of points the person gets, he
or she will fall into one of four categories that represents the risk level
associated with that person under the protocol.  n196 This categorization will
then be considered against the nature of the crime the person allegedly
committed.  n197 Judges will be equipped with a grid that helps them determine
whether (and at what amount) to set bail and what conditions, if any, should be
placed on a defendant's release.  n198 The MCCJC envisions this type of informed
evidence-based decision-making  [*1235]  will ensure maximization of the various
pretrial supervision and detention options.  n199 In order to gauge whether it
has been successful with this program, the MCCJC has set a goal of increasing by
ten percent the number of successful diversions or deferred prosecutions and
saving a minimum of $ 350,000 in doing so by the end of 2013.  n200

   Finally, the MCJCC wants to adopt a "dosage-based" probation plan.  n201
Based on research demonstrating that probation services are unnecessary after a
certain period of time, Milwaukee seeks to begin a pilot program that provides
early termination of probation for probationers who accomplish certain
risk-reducing objectives.  n202 The MCCJC will do so by creating a program based
on evidence from this research, developing a profile of the type of probationer
that might be successful in such a program, tracking the group, and comparing it
to other probationers to test the efficacy of the program.  n203 Probation,
then, would be terminated early once the offender received sufficient treatment
as defined by this program. To measure its success with this plan, the MCCJC has
set a goal to be able to prove by the end of 2013 that Milwaukee can cut
probation costs and reduce recidivism by a minimum of fifty percent.  n204

   In these regards, Milwaukee seeks to not just be tough on crime, but also be
"smart" on crime.  n205 For example, twenty-six percemt of those in Milwaukee
County jails awaiting trial have bail set at $ 500 or less, but they cannot
afford to pay it to be released.  n206 However, it costs Milwaukee $ 141 per
person per night to keep these individuals in jail.  n207 Moreover, and perhaps
more importantly, the evidence  [*1236]  collected by the MCCJC demonstrates
that these individuals would not pose even a moderate risk to the community if
released--as demonstrated by their incredibly low bail.  n208 This problem
demonstrates economic inefficiencies in the current system that do not protect
the community from any meaningful risk. The aforementioned reforms in pretrial
decision-making attempt to create a "smarter" criminal justice system in
Milwaukee based on evidence that informs those in the system as to how to treat,
on the one hand, the large majority of cases that involve low-level,
non-dangerous offenders and, on the other hand, those that involve violent or
dangerous defendants.  n209 In this regard, the MCCJC endeavors to protect the
public, but make sensible, cost-effective, and evidence-based decisions
regarding those offenders who do not pose a meaningful risk to the community and
who have a high likelihood of reform through various interventions. In doing so,
Milwaukee strives to stay consistent with the broken windows approach to
community policing, while also grappling with the financial realities it faces.

   VIII. CONCLUSION

   Will the Great Recession mark the beginning of the end of community policing
and the broken windows theory? It is highly unlikely. On the other hand, there
is no doubt that the financial and budgetary realities that cities and police
departments currently face--and may face for some time--pose challenges to
continuing a broken windows theory approach to community policing in most
localities. While some of the non-essential, cost-cutting measures may help
maintain a good portion of the police and criminal justice infrastructure
necessary to continue this approach in some communities, the reality is that
most cities are experiencing deep  [*1237]  enough cuts in their officer ranks,
non-officer personnel, and other resources that some impact will occur. Police
departments may have to do more with less, but they may also have to determine
that certain aspects of police services that they used to provide--e.g.,
responses to non-bodily injury traffic accidents, illegal parking, every burglar
alarm (whether it is confirmed that a burglar entered the home or building), and
the like--are no longer sustainable at current staffing and funding levels. An
interesting possibility to watch in the coming years is whether the police's
non-responsiveness to such low-level crimes and signs of disorder wind up
signaling a lack of social order in those communities that have adopted such
policies and whether that leads to a devolution in crime consistent with the
broken windows theory.

   These difficult economic times pose such a challenge for many communities
because the broken windows approach to community policing is a resource- and
time-intensive model for dealing with crime. While some question whether this
approach has contributed to--or is responsible for--the reduction in crime
during the past two decades, it is clear that the law enforcement community has
embraced this approach and is likely unwilling to abandon it unless absolutely
necessary.  n210 However, as detailed above, changes in police structuring and
practices have already begun, and they may continue for years into the future,
as the effects of the economic downturn are still impacting local governments
today.  n211 These tumultuous times may provide an opportunity for many
communities to rethink their broken windows theory approach to community
policing and restructure it in a manner that remains consistent with the theory,
but properly balances the economic realities that they  [*1238]  face. The
evidence-based decision-making approach in Milwaukee is by no means a singular
example of the types of creative and potentially more efficacious responses to
the criminal justice and social service needs in a community that attempt to
comport with tighter and smaller budgets. Indeed, it is one of many examples
that could become a trend given current circumstances. For in such challenges
may lie opportunity for police departments and the criminal justice and social
service systems more generally to innovate, become more efficient, and still
remain true to the broken windows approach to community policing.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesDisruptive
ConductLoitering, Panhandling & VagrancyElementsGovernmentsLocal
GovernmentsFinanceGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsPolice Power

FOOTNOTES:





n1  George L. Kelling & James Q. Wilson, Broken Windows, THE ATLANTIC, Mar.
1982, available at
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/4465/.





n2  For the purposes of this article, the term "Great Recession" will refer to
the significant economic downturn that affected the United States and global
economies beginning in 2007. See generally Catherine Rampell, "Great Recession":
A Brief Etymology, N.Y. TIMES (Mar. 11, 2009, 5:39 PM),
http://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/03/11/great-recession-a-brief-etymology/
(detailing the etymology of the term "Great Recession").





n3  In this Article, I use the terms local governments, cities, and localities
interchangeably to refer to local government entities.





n4  Sarah E. Waldeck, Cops, Community Policing, and the Social Norms Approach to
Crime Control: Should One Make Us More Comfortable with the Others?, 34 GA. L.
REV. 1253, 1254-55 (2000). Community policing is oftentimes linked with
community prosecution, which is a newer philosophy of prosecution that seeks to
redefine the role of the prosecutor in the criminal justice system from merely
punishing crimes to also helping prevent them. See M. Elaine Nugent-Borakove &
Patricia L. Fanflik, Community Prosecution, Rhetoric or Reality?, in THE
CHANGING ROLE OF THE AMERICAN PROSECUTOR 211-12 (John L. Worrall & M. Elaine
Nugent-Borakove eds., 2008). While a more in-depth analysis of community
prosecution is outside of the scope of this Article, this recognition of the
link between community policing and community prosecution will be helpful for
the various issues explored in this Article.





n5  Community Policing Defined, COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES, U.S. DEP'T
OF JUSTICE, http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/default.asp?item=36 (last visited Nov. 12,
2011). The United States Department of Justice formed the Office of Community
Oriented Policing Services in 1994--pursuant to the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994--to encourage and fund local government community
policing programs. See Tracey L. Meares, Praying for Community Policing , 90
CALIF. L. REV. 1593, 1596 (2002).





n6  See Waldeck, supra note 4, at 1254.





n7  See James Forman, Jr., Community Policing and Youth as Assets, 95 J. CRIM.
L. & CRIMINOLOGY 1, 4-5 (2004).





n8  Bret D. Asbury, Anti-Snitching Norms and Community Loyalty, 89 OR. L. REV.
1257, 1307 (2011).





n9  See Forman, Jr., supra note 7, at 4.





n10  Id. at 5.





n11  Id. at 6.





n12  See id. at 4-5.





n13  Michael D. Reisig, Community and Problem-Oriented Policing, 39 CRIME &
JUST. 1, 5 (2010). The traditional regimented and hierarchical decision-making
and supervisory practices are also loosened to allow the beat officer to
creatively solve problems that he experiences in the community. Id. at 6.





n14  See Kami Chavis Simmons, New Governance and the "New Paradigm" of Police
Accountability: A Democratic Approach to Police Reform, 59 CATH. U. L. REV. 373,
420 (2010).





n15  See Alafair S. Burke, Unpacking New Policing: Confessions of a Former
Neighborhood District Attorney, 78 WASH. U. L. REV. 985, 986 (2003). But see
David Thacher, Conflicting Values in Community Policing, 35 LAW & SOC'Y REV.
765, 766-69 (2001) (noting that police and community values may not always be
compatible and, in fact, may actually be at odds).





n16  See Reisig, supra note 12, at 5-6.





n17  See Reenah L. Kim, Note, Legitimizing Community Consent to Local Policing:
The Need for Democratically Negotiated Community Representation on Civilian
Advisory Boards, 36 HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 461, 480-81 (2001). Problem-oriented
policing involves police identifying and understanding problems facing their
community and crafting and executing a solution to these problems--those that
cause residents, businesses, and others to call the police for service and
assistance. Reisig, supra note 12, at 5-6. This approach has been characterized
by four basic stages: scanning (where police endeavor to identify and define the
problem), analysis (where police seek to understand the causes and magnitude of
the problem), response (where police attempt to devise an alternative approach
to the current one that has proved ineffective), and assessment (where police
determine the efficacy of the approach and any alterations necessary to improve
future responses). Id. at 7-8. While community policing and problem-oriented
policing are conceptually linked--and, indeed, many police departments embrace
them as interconnected--it is worth noting that problem-oriented policing does
not emphasize citizen involvement and collaboration as much as community
policing. Id. at 9.





n18  See infra Part VII and accompanying notes.





n19  See Nicole Stelle Garnett, The Order-Maintenance Agenda as Land Use Policy,
24 NOTRE DAME J.L. ETHICS & PUB. POL'Y 131, 132-33 (2010).





n20  George L. Kelling & James Q. Wilson, Broken Windows, THE ATLANTIC, Mar.
1982, available at
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/4465/.





n21  Id.





n22  Id.





n23  Id. This point underscores a lesser-known foundational premise of the
broken windows theory--that is, that people do consider disorder when making a
judgment about how safe their neighborhood is.





n24  Id.





n25  Id. The "broken windows" moniker derived from an experiment conducted by
Philip Zimbardo, where he left a car sitting in the Bronx in New York City, New
York, and another in Palo Alto, California. Id. The Bronx, at the time, was
filled with disorder and crime, and the car was vandalized within ten minutes.
The car left in Palo Alto--an affluent community with low crime and minimal
disorder--was left untouched for more than a week until Zimbardo broke one of
its windows with a sledgehammer. Within hours of Zimbardo doing so, the car was
entirely ruined by others. Id. A similar metaphor is an abandoned manufacturing
plant building that remains untouched until a window is broken, which triggers
more windows being broken, followed by vandalism and other crimes, and
eventually the building being burned to the ground. Both metaphorical examples
serve to demonstrate the theory that even in an orderly neighborhood, once there
are visible signs of acceptance of disorder, further disorder and greater crime
will inevitably follow.





n26  See Dan M. Kahan, Reciprocity, Collective Action, and Community Policing,
90 CALIF. L. REV. 1513, 1528 (2002).





n27  Id.





n28  See id.





n29  See Robert J. Sampson & Jacqueline Cohen, Deterrent Effects of the Police
on Crime: A Replication and Theoretical Extension, 22 LAW & SOC'Y REV. 163, 165
(1988).





n30  Dan M. Kahan, Social Influence, Social Meaning, and Deterrence, 83 VA. L.
REV. 349, 350 (1997).





n31  Id. at 355-57. What further compounds this problem is that those who do not
engage in criminal activity will eventually leave the community, thus eroding
some of the positive social influence possibilities in the neighborhood. Id. at
371.





n32  See Kelling & Wilson, supra note 20.





n33  See id.





n34  See id.





n35  See id.





n36  See George L. Kelling & William J. Bratton, Declining Crime Rates:
Insiders' Views of the New York City Story, 88 J. CRIM. L & CRIMINOLOGY 1217,
1219 (1998). Law-abiding citizens withdraw by either moving to a different
locality--if they have the resources to do so--or by avoiding the streets as
much as possible. In either case, the absence of such law-abiding community
stakeholders increases the concentration of criminals in the area and takes away
a mediating presence--the law-abiding citizens themselves--that might help deter
crime. See Kahan, supra note 26, at 1528.





n37  See Josh Bowers, Legal Guilt, Normative Innocence, and the Equitable
Decision Not to Prosecute, 110 COLUM. L. REV. 1655, 1693 (2010). Interestingly,
this strategy finds police departments investing fewer resources in the areas of
serious crimes--murder, armed robbery, etc.--and channeling more of their
resources into targeting the lower-level, disorderly misconduct. See Kahan,
supra note 26, at 1527.





n38  See Kahan, supra note 26, at 1528.





n39  See WESLEY G. SKOGAN, DISORDER AND DECLINE 51 (1990).





n40  See Robert J. Sampson & Stephen W. Raudenbush, Systematic Social
Observation of Public Space: A New Look at Disorder in Urban Neighborhoods, 105
AM. J. SOC. 603, 608 (1999).





n41  William J. Bratton, The New York City Police Department's Civil Enforcement
of Quality-of-Life Crimes, 3 J.L. & POL'Y 447, 448 (1995).





n42  See Risa L. Goluboff, Dispatch from the Supreme Court Archives: Vagrancy,
Abortion, and What the Links Between Them Reveal About the History of
Fundamental Rights, 62 STAN. L. REV. 1361, 1374 (2010).





n43  See Bratton, supra note 41, at 452-63. Nuisance abatement laws allow police
to close locations where crimes occur, thus removing criminal activity from that
area. Forfeiture laws allow the police to seize cars used in soliciting
prostitutes, effecting a drug deal, or even playing music too loud. See id.





n44  Kahan, supra note 30, at 355-57.





n45  See id. at 365.





n46  K. Babe Howell, Broken Lives from Broken Windows, 33 N.Y.U. REV. L. & SOC.
CHANGE 271, 279 (2009).





n47  See Kelling & Wilson, supra note 20.





n48  See Reisig, supra note 13, at 26-27.





n49  See id. at 27-29.





n50  See Waldeck, supra note 4, at 1275 (noting that while many approaches to
broken windows policing used arrest as a last resort, arrest was still heavily
relied upon by various police departments as part of their community policing
approaches).





n51  See Howell, supra note 46, at 283-90, 307-14.





n52  See id. at 292.





n53  See id. at 307. Even setting aside the issue of overtime pay, the choice to
have police officers processing such arrests instead of being out in the
community also poses a cost to the police department and the community. See id.





n54  See id. at 292.





n55  See id. at 296.





n56  See Howell, supra note 46, at 297.





n57  See id. at 302.





n58  See id. at 306-07.





n59  See generally DANIEL R. MANDELKER ET AL., STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT IN A
FEDERAL SYSTEM 282-518 (2010).





n60  See Laurie Reynolds, Taxes, Fees, Assessments, Dues, and the "Get What You
Pay for" Model of Local Government, 56 FLA. L. REV. 373, 383 (2004).





n61  See Richard Briffault, Home Rule for the Twenty-First Century, 36 URB. LAW.
253, 269 (2004).





n62  See Amnon Lehavi, Intergovernmental Liability Rules, 92 VA. L. REV. 929,
949 (2006).





n63  See Peter W. Salsich, Jr., Toward a Policy of Heterogeneity: Overcoming a
Long History of Socioeconomic Segregation in Housing, 42 WAKE FOREST L. REV.
459, 484 (2007).





n64  See MANDELKER, supra note 59, at 461-63.





n65  See Reynolds, supra note 60, at 397 (providing an overview of local
government special assessments).





n66  See id. at 407-24 (detailing the various types of local government fees).





n67  See Sean Carey, Note, Post-Davis Conduit Bonds: At the Intersection of the
Dormant Commerce Clause and Municipal Debt, 78 FORDHAM L. REV. 121, 125-26
(2009).





n68  See William Selway, U.S. Federal Budget Cuts to Hit Cash-Strapped Cities,
Transit, BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK (Apr. 12, 2011, 1:26 PM),
http://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-04-12/u-s-federal-budget-cuts-to-hit-cash-
strapped-cities-transit.html.





n69  See, e.g., Howard Wilkinson, Ohioans Embrace New Reality, CINCINNATI.COM
(July 2, 2011, 4:34 PM),
http://news.cincinnati.com/article/20110702/NEWS0108/107030320/Ohioans-embrace-n
ew-reality (detailing the significant cuts in state aid to local governments in
Ohio and the likely fallout from the cuts).





n70  See Kelly Nolan, Fall in Property-Tax Revenue Squeezes Cities, WALL ST. J.,
July 16, 2011,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304521304576447940532071536.html
(explaining the difficulties cities are facing from decreased tax revenues).





n71  See Andrew Blankstein & Robert Faturechi, L.A. County Jails May Be Out of
Room Next Month, L.A. TIMES, Nov. 11, 2011,
http://www.latimes.com/news/local/la-me-jails-release-20111111,0,4128740.story.





n72  See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, IS THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN FUNDAMENTALLY
CHANGING HOW WE POLICE? 1 (2010), available at
http://www.policeforum.org/library/critical-issuesin-policing-series/Econdowntur
naffectpolicing12.10 .pdf.





n73  See id.





n74  See id.





n75  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE, THE IMPACT OF
THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN ON AMERICAN POLICE AGENCIES 10-11 (2011), available at
http://cops.usdoj.gov/Publications/e101113406_Economic%20Impact.pdf (citing the
International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) study Policing in the 21st
Century: Preliminary Survey Results (2010)). These cuts were already on top of
budget cuts from previous years during the current economic downturn. See id.





n76  See id. at 11 (citing an unpublished study by the Major City Chiefs
Association entitled Police Economic Challenges Survey Results (2011)).





n77  See id. at 13. In addition, many police departments also experienced cuts
in overtime funding and mandatory furlough days for police officers and other
law enforcement personnel. See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, supra note 72, at 1.





n78  See Kevin Johnson & David Jackson, Economy Costing 12,000 Cops Their Jobs,
CHI. SUNTIMES, Oct. 25, 2011, at 17, available at 2011 WLNR 21864539.





n79  See Crime-Ridden Camden, N.J., Cuts Police Force Nearly in Half, CNN.COM
(Jan. 18, 2011),
http://articles.cnn.com/2011-01-18/us/new.jersey.layoffs_1_police-force-police-o
fficers-public-safety?_s=PM:US.





n80  See Joe Swickard & Dawson Bell, Flint Official: National Guard Not an
Option to Fix Violence, DETROIT FREE PRESS, May 27, 2011, available at 2010 WLNR
10896407.





n81  See Paterson Police Plan to Protest Layoffs of 125 Officers, NJ.COM (Apr.
18, 2011, 7:55 AM),
http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2011/04/paterson_police_plan_to_protes.html.





n82  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 35.





n83  See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, supra note 72, at 2.





n84  See Press Release, City of Detroit Police Dep't, Verified Response Will
Reduce 911 Calls for False Alarms (Aug. 15, 2011), available at
http://www.securitysales.com/files/DPD-Verified-Response-Press-release.doc
(noting that Salt Lake City, Utah; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Aurora, Colorado;
Fremont, California; and Madison, Wisconsin also have adopted this policy).





n85  See John Woolfolk, San Jose Cops Unveil Plan to Cut Services to Businesses
and Residents, OAKLAND TRIB., Aug. 12, 2011, available at 2011 WLNR 16050912.





n86  See id. The SJPD also implemented cuts to its gang-reduction officers in
city schools and drastically reduced the number of flight hours of the police
helicopter in an attempt to close budget deficits. See id.





n87  See id. The cities of Boston, Massachusetts; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and San
Diego, California, have all entirely cut their horse-mounted police forces. See
Jeff Martin, Mounted Police Fading in Sunset?, USA TODAY (Feb. 10, 2010, 12:48
PM), http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2010-02-11-mounted-police_N.htm. There
are only one hundred existing horse-mounted police units in the country, down
from nearly three hundred just ten years ago. See id.





n88  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 20. The City of
Sacramento, California, eliminated its entire narcotics and gangs units due to
budget cuts. See id. at 22. Other cities are seeking to cut their crossing guard
programs to help close budget gaps. See Anna Carrera, SP Police May Cut Crossing
Guard Program, WKOW.COM (Oct. 7, 2011, 7:21 AM),
http://www.wkow.com/story/15645505/sp-police-may-cut-crossing-guard-program
(noting a similar plan in Stevens Point, Wisconsin); Anne Jungen & Patrick B.
Anderson, Police Department Wants to Cut Crossing Guard Program to Save Money,
LA CROSSE TRIB. (Sept. 15, 2011, 12:00 AM),
http://lacrossetribune.com/news/local/article_ed309876-df52-11e0-b330-001cc4c002
e0.html (explaining such a proposal in La Crosse, Wisconsin).





n89  See Police Budget Cuts Force Victims to Solve Property Crimes on Their Own,
KREM.COM (July 14, 2011, 7:17 PM),
http://www.krem.com/news/local/Police-budget-cuts-force-victims-to-solve-propert
y-crimes-on-their-own-125611808.html (detailing how Beloit, Wisconsin, is making
such cuts due to budget constraints).





n90  See Kevin Johnson, Cutbacks Force Police to Curtail Calls for Some Crimes,
USA TODAY (Aug. 25, 2011, 2:19AM),
http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2010-08-25-1Anresponsecops25_ST_N.htm
(noting such a move by Oakland, California; Tulsa, Oklahoma; and Norton,
Massachusetts).





n91  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 22.





n92  See Marco Caffuzzi, Note, Private Police and Personal Privacy: Who's
Guarding the Guards?, 40 N.Y.L. SCH. L. REV. 225, 226-29 (1995) (commenting on
the rise in private policing during the 1990s).





n93  See Lucy Gerold, Downtown Security Collaborative, POLICE CHIEF MAG., July
2006, available at
http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuseaction=display&article
_id=930&issue_id=72006.





n94  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 24.





n95  See Bobby White, Cash-Strapped Cities Try Private Guards Over Police, WALL
ST. J., Apr. 21, 2009, at A4,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124027127337237011.html.





n96  See Alan Gomez, Civilians Help with Minor Police Duties, USA TODAY (Mar.
31, 2008, 12:01 AM),
http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2008-03-30-civiliancops_N.htm.





n97  See Nathan Gonzalez, Mesa Civilian Investigators Save Money, Create Rapport
with Public, ARIZ. REPUBLIC (July 19, 2010, 9:20 AM),
http://www.azcentral.com/community/mesa/articles/2010/07/19/20100719mesa-civilia
n-police-investigators0717.html. The San Francisco Police Department also
started a civilian investigation unit in 2010. See San Francisco PD Tries Out
Civilian Investigators (NPR radio broadcast Aug. 2, 2010), available at
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128923342.





n98  See Gonzalez, supra note 97.





n99  See Kristen Mack, Emanuel, McCarthy Shift 138 Officers from Jail Lockups to
Beat Patrol, CHI. TRIB., Oct. 6, 2011,
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2011-10-06/news/chi-emanuel-mccarthy-shift-13
8-officers-from-jail-lockups-to-beat-patrol-20111006_1_mayor-rahm-emanuel-office
rs-on-city-streets-patrol.





n100  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 23 (noting that the
civilianization program in San Francisco saves up to $ 40,000 per civilian in
training, equipment, and benefit costs compared to hiring a police officer for
the position). Some cities have also used volunteers to do clerical work and to
serve as reserve officers to help save money. See id. at 24-25.





n101  See, e.g., Roberto Acosta, Police Chiefs in Burton and Grand Blanc
Township Talk About Consolidation, FLINT J. (July 30, 2011, 12:00 PM),
http://www.mlive.com/news/flint/index.ssf/2011/07/police_chiefs_in_burton_and_gr
.html (discussing the possible consolidation of two townships); Ken Carlson,
Tepid Response Meets Idea to Combine Modesto Police, County Sheriff, MODESTO BEE
(Apr. 7, 2010),
http://www.modbee.com/2011/04/06/1633647/merge-police-sheriff.html (detailing a
proposed merger of the Modesto Police Department and the Stanislaus County
Sheriff's Department). See also CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75,
at 30 (noting other consolidation arrangements in various localities).





n102  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 29 (citing the 2011
National Survey of County Elected Officials).





n103  See, e.g., Katie Dunn, Hoschton Dissolves Police Department to Save Money,
GAINESVILLE TIMES, Jan. 14, 2010,
http://www.gainesvilletimes.com/archives/28321/ (detailing the defunding of the
City of Hoschton, Florida's police department and the contract with the Jackson
County Sheriff's Office for police service); Ashley McNamee, Roanoke Police
Department Disbanded, CINEWSNOW.COM (July 15, 2010, 11:55 AM),
http://www.cinewsnow.com/news/local/46678142.html (noting that the village of
Roanoke, Illinois, disbanded its police department and contracted with the
Woodford County Sheriff's Department for police services).





n104  See Frank Main, Chicago Police Department Cracks Down on Sick Leave Abuse,
CHI. SUNTIMES (Sept. 6, 2011, 10:02 PM),
http://www.suntimes.com/news/crime/7506385-418/chicago-police-department-cracks-
down-on-sick-leave-abuse.html; Charles Thomas, City May Close Some Police
Stations to Save Money, ABC 7 NEWS (Sept. 19, 2011),
http://abclocal.go.com/wls/story?section=news/local&id=8359789.





n105  See POLICE EXEC. RESEARCH FORUM, supra note 72, at 2.





n106  See Matt Cecil, The Costs of Living, In Jail, OR. CAPITAL NEWS (July 26,
2011), http://oregoncapitolnews.com/blog/2011/07/26/the-cost-of-living-in-jail/.





n107  See, e.g., Mark Wiggins, McLennan County's Jail Doctor Outlines Ambitious
Plan for Cuts, KXXV.COM (Jan. 14, 2011, 5:11 PM),
http://www.kxxv.com/story/13846656/mclennan-countys-jail-doc-outlines-ambitious-
plans-for-savings?redirected=true (noting McLennan County's attempt to save
money on medical costs); see also OFFICE OF THE N.Y. STATE COMPTROLLER,
COST-SAVING AND COST-CONTAINMENT STRATEGIES FOR NEW YORK STATE'S LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS 13 (June 2009),
http://www.osc.state.ny.us/localgov/pubs/research/costsavingcontainment.pdf
(noting and explaining the use of telemedicine--the practice of treating inmates
over a closed-circuit Internet video or data feed--by many New York localities
to save money on medical services).





n108  See, e.g., Steve Schultze, Jail Health Care Change Announced, JSONLINE
(Sept. 28, 2011), http://www.jsonline.com/news/milwaukee/130731963.html
(explaining Milwaukee County's privatizing of its jail medical services).





n109  See OFFICE OF THE N.Y. STATE COMPTROLLER, supra note 106, at 12.





n110  Id.





n111  See Steven Elbow, Hot Breakfast Nixed for Sauk County Inmates, CAP TIMES
(Jan. 28, 2011, 7:00 AM),
http://host.madison.com/ct/news/local/crime_and_courts/blog/article_6e6fbb14-2a4
b-11e0-bf08-001cc4c002e0.html. The County of Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, no
longer provides milk with every meal, but rather gives inmates a glass of water
with a packet of fruit punch powder for lunch and dinner--saving the county
approximately $ 16,000 per year. See Krista Hostetler, Chippewa County Jail
Reducing Milk Intake for Inmates, WQOW.COM (Mar. 29, 2011, 7:17 PM),
http://www.wqow.com/Global/story.asp?S=14345401.





n112  Colleen Jenkins, Florida Jail Ends Free Underwear for Jail Costs, REUTERS
(July 15, 2011, 11:27 AM),
http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/07/15/us-florida-jail-underwear-idUSTRE76E3X
S20110715.





n113  See Lisa Cornwell, Program Gives Inmates Green Thumbs, COLUMBUS DISPATCH
(Aug. 1, 2011, 5:51 AM),
http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/local/2011/08/01/program-gives-inmates-g
reen-thumbs.html.





n114  See Carol Demare, Jail Food Goes Private in Cost Test, TIMESUNION.COM
(Nov. 12, 2010, 12:00 AM),
http://www.timesunion.com/local/article/Jail-food-goes-private-in-cost-test-8094
37.php (explaining the privatization of food service at the Albany County Jail).





n115  See Patrick George, Hays Sheriff Puts Inmates to Work at Jail to Save
Money, STATESMAN.COM (Jan. 30, 2011, 8:49 PM),
http://www.statesman.com/news/local/hays-sheriff-puts-inmates-to-work-at-jail-12
20705.html.





n116  See Sheriff: Jail Mail Policy Working Well, BARROW J. (Oct. 2, 2010),
http://www.barrowjournal.com/archives/3838-Sheriff-Jail-mail-policy-working-well
.html.





n117  See, e.g., Jail Work Release Program Expands in Brown County, WTVB.COM
(Aug. 24, 2011, 10:39 AM),
http://wtvbam.com/news/articles/2011/aug/24/jail-work-release-program-expands-in
-brown-county/ (noting the general labor that inmates perform in Brown County,
Wisconsin); Joe Moszczynski, Requests for N.J. Inmate Labor Increase as
Cash-Strapped Towns Look to Cut Costs, STAR-LEDGER (Mar. 14, 2011, 9:45 PM),
http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2011/03/requests_for_nj_inmate_labor_i.html
(detailing the Sheriff's Work Assistance Program (SWAP) in several New Jersey
counties).





n118  See Domingo Ramirez Jr., Four Northeast Tarrant Cities to Share Jail,
Communications Center, STAR-TELEGRAM.COM (Sept. 25, 2011),
http://www.startelegram.com/2011/09/25/vtouch/3395826_four-northeast-tarrant-cit
ies.html (detailing how the cities of North Richland Hills, Richland Hills,
Halthom, and Watauga agreed to a consolidation plan for their jails, and how
these communities expect to save from $ 260,000 to $ 335,000 with this move).





n119  See Thelma Sardin, Emanuel Unveils Crime Plan, WKLY. CITIZEN (Jan. 12,
2011),
http://www.thechicagocitizen.com/community-focus/emanuel-unveils-crime-plan/.
Questions have been raised regarding whether Illinois' TIF statute would allow
for such a reallocation of TIF funds. For general information regarding the TIF
districts, funding, and issues surrounding them, see generally Richard
Briffault, The Most Popular Tool: Tax Increment Financing and the Political
Economy of Local Government, 77 U. CHI. L. REV. 65 (2010).





n120  See Mark Ambrogi, Lions Fish Fry Nets $ 3,400, INDYSTAR.COM (Sept. 15,
2010),
http://www.indystar.com/article/20100916/LOCAL0103/9160395/Lions-fish-fry-nets-3
-400 (noting that the County of Hamilton, Ohio, receives money from the
Westfield Lions Club's fish fry and Texas Hold 'Em Poker fundraiser to pay for
inmate reading glasses); Deena Yellin, Budget Cuts Force N.J. Police Departments
to Get Creative, HERALD NEWS (Sept. 21, 2011),
http://www.lawofficer.com/article/news/budget-cuts-force-nj-police-de
(explaining how the Mahwah Police Department has used various fundraising
activities, including a fashion show, to raise money to help meet its budget).





n121  See Christina Hall, Jail Inmates Get Billed for Stay--But Few Pay, DETROIT
FREE PRESS, Feb. 7, 2011, at A1, available at 2011 WLNR 2407421 (noting the
counties in Michigan); Kathleen Miles, Riverside Charges Inmates for Stays in
"Prison Hotels", HUFFINGTON POST (Nov. 4, 2011, 1:46 AM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/03/riverside-charges-inmates_n_1075129.htm
l (noting the billing system in Riverside County); Wood County to Start Charging
Inmates for Jail Stays, JSONLINE (Aug. 17, 2011),
http://www.jsonline.com/news/wisconsin/127934438.html (noting the billing system
in Wood County).





n122  See Jenkins, supra note 112.





n123  See Miles, supra note 121. To collect the legal fees, the county intends
to place a lien against the inmate's personal property and then collect the
money when that property is sold. Id.





n124  See, e.g., Cecil, supra note 106 (explaining that Mutnomah County, Oregon,
spends approximately $ 127 per day to house the average inmate); Leon Fooksman &
Rachael Joyner, Remedies Sought for Crowded Jail: Costs of Incarceration Rising
Fast, SUNSENTINEL.COM (Jan. 10, 2008),
http://articles.sun-sentinel.com/2008-01-10/news/0801100032_1_jail-inmate-jail-p
opulation-fights (noting that Palm Beach County, Florida, spends almost $ 100
per day to house an inmate).





n125  See, e.g., Michael Miller, Southern New Jersey Jail Inmates Serving More
Sentences at Home, Easing Overcrowding and Saving Counties Money, PRESS OF
ATLANTIC CITY (Feb. 13, 2011, 7:47 PM),
http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/news/press/atlantic/southern-new-jersey-jail-
inmates-serving-more-sentences-at-home/article_2e873422-37d5-11e0-8192-001cc4c03
286.html (detailing the use of electronic monitoring in Atlantic City, New
Jersey, for its day-reporting program, home detentions, and pretrial release of
suspects).





n126  See Amanda Boardman, For Criminals, No Place Like Home, DALLASNEWS.COM
(Aug. 23, 2010, 2:27 AM),
http://www.dallasnews.com/news/crime/headlines/20100823-Dallas-County-s-alternat
ive-sentencing-program-5942.ece (detailing the alternative sentencing plan in
Dallas County, Texas); see also Kayla Anderson, County Resumes Controversial
House Arrest Program, KOB.COM (Mar. 31, 2011, 9:49 PM),
http://www.kob.com/article/stories/S2045476.shtml (explaining the house arrest
program in Bernalillo County, New Mexico, in which inmates are on an ankle
monitoring system instead of behind bars); Kathy Coffta Sims, Bracelets that
Track Criminals, THE POST-STANDARD (Syracuse, NY), Feb. 12, 2008, at B1 (noting
a similar program in Madison County, New York).





n127  See Ofelia Madrid, Electronic Monitoring Saves Money, ARIZ. REPUBLIC (Nov.
23, 2010, 12:00 AM),
http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/local/articles/2010/11/23/20101123nehou
searrest1123.html (detailing Scottsdale's cost savings); Number of County
Criminal Suspects on Electronic Monitoring Surges, THEDOINGSOAKBROOK (Oct. 6,
2011, 9:10AM),
http://oakbrook.suntimes.com/news/8064224-418/number-of-county-criminal-suspects
-on-electronic-monitoring-surges.html (noting the cost savings for Cook County,
Illinois). Electronic monitoring in drunk driving cases has become more
prevalent because of such cost savings. See, e.g., Matthew Kemeny, Counties Turn
to Electronic Monitoring to Cut Costs, Curb Overcrowding in Prisons,
PENNLIVE.COM (Feb. 24, 2010, 7:17 PM),
http://www.pennlive.com/midstate/index.ssf/2010/02/counties_turn_to_electronic_m
o.html (detailing the use of electronic monitoring for drunk driving cases in
Perry County, Pennsylvania); Jennifer Sullivan, Seattle Courts to Trade Jail for
Ankle Bracelets, SEATTLE TIMES (May 10, 2011, 10:02 PM),
http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2015017712_duibracelet11m.html
(noting the Seattle Municipal Court's use of electronic monitoring). Other
counties have saved even more money by moving to an electronic monitoring system
for low-level offenders by charging the criminal or the accused for most, if not
all, of the electronic monitoring costs. See, e.g., Boardman, supra note 126
(explaining that those participating in the electronic monitoring program pay
for ninety percent of the costs).





n128  See Boardman, supra note 126.





n129  Id.





n130  See, e.g., SEDGWICK CNTY. PUB. SAFETY, WORK RELEASE PROGRAM 1 (June 2010),
http://www.sedgwickcounty.org/Criminal_Justice/Fact%20Sheets/Work%20Release%20Pr
ogram.pdf (detailing the work release program in Sedgwick County, Kansas).





n131  Id.





n132  See Miller, supra note 125. This work release program in Cape May County,
New Jersey, saved taxpayers $ 357,964 through 29,032 hours of work by the
inmates in 2010. Id.





n133  See Tom Barnes, Prison Head: Release Short-Term State Inmates to Halfway
Houses, POST-GAZETTE.COM (Mar. 2, 2010, 11:53 AM),
http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/10061/1039687-100.stm. Other counties have dealt
with jail overcrowding and the need for cost control by simply releasing
nonviolent criminals from jail earlier than their scheduled release date. See
Don Hamilton, County: Have Jail, Will Share, PORTLAND TRIB. (Feb. 4, 2005),
http://www.portlandtribune.com/news/story.php?story_id=28215 (noting how
Multnomah County, Oregon has been forced to release some inmates that it would
rather keep imprisoned, due to financial constraints). Overcrowding and cost
control pressures have forced some counties to rely on citations as sole
punitive measures for low-level criminal acts. See, e.g., Michelle Hillen, Rx
for Jail Crunch: More State Money, ARK. DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE, Aug. 24, 2008, at 19,
available at
http://www.arkansasonline.com/news/2008/aug/24/rx-jail-crunch-more-state-money-2
0080824/?subscriber-arkansas (noting that Pulaski County, Arkansas, started
giving citations to nonviolent offenders instead of jail time). To be sure, this
is one approach that local governments could take to save money yet still remain
consistent to the principles of the broken windows approach to community
policing: that is, to decriminalize certain low-level, order maintenance
offenses. See Howell, supra note 46, at 316-18. Cities could create meaningful
civil penalties, such as fines, to address and discourage such undesirable
behavior. See id. at 317. This potential option should not be mistaken as an
acceptance of such disorder or of moving away from the social norms-based
approach that community policing embraces. Rather, it could be seen as a
conscious effort to enforce such community norms in a manner that is less
expensive but may be as effective. In decriminalizing such offenses, local
governments "open[] up possibilities for re-integrative and non-adversarial
solutions that can strengthen rather than undermine social order." Id. It may
also reduce the costs--financial and otherwise--to the violator and the criminal
justice system as detailed above. In these regards, decriminalization of certain
offenses may save money while remaining true to the tenets of the broken windows
theory and community policing more generally.





n134  See Richard F. Belisle, Day Reporting Center Aims to Save Counties Jail
Money, HERALD-MAIL.COM (Apr. 19, 2009),
http://articles.herald-mail.com/2009-04-19/news/25164957_1_jail-counties-prisone
rs (detailing the day reporting centers established in 2009 by the counties of
Berkeley and Jefferson in West Virginia).





n135  See id.





n136  See id. DeKalb County, Georgia, instituted a similar diversion program for
first-time offenders charged with shoplifting, disorderly conduct, and other
low-level offenses. If the offenders successfully complete the diversion
program, they can avoid jail time and save the county money through the
attendant reduced inmate costs. Daniel Beauregard, DeKalb Solicitor-General
Kicks Off New Pre-Trial Diversion Program, CHAMPION NEWSPAPER (Nov. 4, 2011),
http://www.championnewspaper.com/news/articles/1158dekalb-solicitor-general-kick
s-off-new-pretrial-diversion-program1158.html.





n137  See Eric J. Miller, Drugs, Courts, and the New Penology, 20 STAN. L. &
POL'Y REV. 417, 420-24 (2009).





n138  Minnesota Program Gets Recovering Substance Abusers Back to Work, 17
WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE ADVISOR 20 (Sept. 19, 2003).





n139  Id.





n140  Id.





n141  See id.





n142  See Joyce Wheeler, Witness for the Client: A Judge's Role in Increasing
Awareness in the Defendant, 57 ME. L. REV. 463, 466-67 (2005).





n143  See James Noonan, Napa Held Up as Example for Jail Strategies, NAPA VALLEY
REG. (Sept. 21, 2011, 6:17 PM),
http://napavalleyregister.com/news/local/napa-held-up-as-example-for-jailstrateg
ies/article_ba265284-e4b8-11e0-ab0e-001cc4c03286.html. Napa County adopted such
a matrix program in response to jail overcrowding and funding issues. See id.
Sedgwick County, Kansas, also adopted a matrix program called Metatomix, which
is "a multi-database search tool that provides authorized individuals the
capability to view historical and current information from many agencies about
individuals passing through the criminal justice system." SEDGWICK CNTY. PUB.
SAFETY, supra note 130, at 2. Metatomix allows officials to determine which
inmates would be best suited for incarceration alternatives such as drug courts,
day reporting centers, and mental health courts. See id.





n144  Noonan, supra note 143.





n145  Letter from Abdi Soltani, Exec. Director of ACLU of N. Cal., to Exec.
Comm. Members of the Cmty. Corrections P'ship (July 12, 2011),
http://www.aclunc.org/issues/criminal_justice/asset_upload_file541_10684.pdf.





n146  CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 26.





n147  Id.





n148  Id. at 27.





n149  Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y. TIMES (Aug.
15, 2011), http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n150  Id.





n151  Id. This model is similar to the CompStat model developed by the New York
City Police Department, but many argue that it is far more sophisticated because
it is forward-looking in nature, while CompStat is backward-looking. Id.





n152  Id.





n153  Id.





n154  See generally NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS, GETTING SMARTER ABOUT
SENTENCING: NCSC'S SENTENCING REFORM STUDY (2006), available at
http://www.ncsconline.org/d_research/Documents/Senten_GettingSmarter_SentencingR
eformSurvey_FinalPub.pdf. The NCSC began this project in 2006 with the support
of the Conference of Chief Justices and the Conference of State Court
Administrators. Id. at 2.





n155  Id. at 10.





n156  See CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., A FRAMEWORK FOR EVIDENCED-BASED
DECISION MAKING IN LOCAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS 2 (2010), available at
http://www.cepp.com/documents/EBDM%20Framework.pdf.





n157  Id.





n158  See Roger K. Warren, Evidence-Based Practices and State Sentencing Policy:
Ten Policy Initiatives to Reduce Recidivism, 82 IND. L.J. 1307, 1307 (2007).





n159  Evidence-based decision-making is sometimes linked to, or interchangeably
described as, evidence-based practices, Problem-Oriented Policing,
Intelligence-led Policing, or HotSpot policing. See Criminal Justice Policy
Research Inst., Crime Analysis, PORTLAND ST. U.: HARTSFIELD SCH. GOV'T,
http://pdx.edu/cjpri/crime-analysis (last visited March 26, 2012).





n160  See CRIME & JUSTICE INST., IMPLEMENTING EVIDENCE-BASED PRACTICE IN
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS: THE PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE INTERVENTION 2 (2004),
http://static.nicic.gov/Library/019342.pdf. For more information on
evidenced-based medicine, see generally STEFAN TIMMERMANS & MARC BERG, THE GOLD
STANDARD: THE CHALLENGE OF EVIDENCE-BASED MEDICINE AND STANDARDIZATION IN HEALTH
CARE 1 (2003).





n161  See CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 7. Not all
evidence has equal weight, of course, as the strength and validity will vary
depending on a number of factors, including methodology of the study. Id. at 42.
See also EDWARD T. JENNINGS, JR. & JEREMY L. HALL, EVIDENCE-BASED PRACTICE AND
THE USE OF INFORMATION IN STATE AGENCY DECISION-MAKING 8 (2009),
http://www.ifigr.org/workshop/spring09/jennings.pdf (listing a variety of
factors to consider when determining the strength of the evidence provided by
social science research).





n162  See URBAN INST., BEYOND IDEOLOGY, POLITICS, AND GUESSWORK: THE CASE FOR
EVIDENCE-BASED POLICY 1 (2008),
http://www.urban.org/UploadedPDF/901189_evidence-based.pdf. The solutions can be
judged by the various research and data related to categories such as increases
in public safety (including reduced recidivism, longer time periods between new
offenses for released offenders, fewer crimes from neighborhood "hotspots," and
the like); improved community wellness (fewer drug or alcohol accidents or
fatalities, fewer emergency room visits for crime-related injuries, and fewer
people going to jail or prison with mental health issues, to name but a few);
increased satisfaction with the criminal justice system (improvement in survey
responses, increased participation by victims, and the like); and improvements
in monetary and social costs of the criminal justice system (reduction in crime
rate, cost-savings for incarceration, and similar measurements). CTR. FOR
EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 22-24.





n163  See Alan J. Borsuk, Get Smart?, MARQ. LAW., Fall 2011, at 22,
http://law.marquette.edu/assets/marquette-lawyers/pdf/marquette-lawyer/2011-fall
/2011-fall-p20.pdf.





n164  See CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 6-7.





n165  Id. at 19.





n166  Id.





n167  See JOHN S. GOLDKAMP ET AL., COMMUNITY PROSECUTION STRATEGIES: MEASURING
IMPACT 7 (2002), https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/bja/192826.pdf.





n168  See Nugent-Borakove & Fanflik, supra note 4, at 223. Other interagency
coordination may well include schools, fire departments, health departments, and
other city agencies that can help address problems in the community. Id.





n169  Emanuel Outlines Crime-Fighting Plan, CBSCHICAGO.COM (Jan. 10, 2011, 6:58
AM),
http://chicago.cbslocal.com/2011/01/10/emanuel-outlines-crime-fighting-plan/.





n170  See CRIME & JUSTICE INST., supra note 160, at 2-3.





n171  See id. at 2.





n172  See, e.g., Michael M. O'Hear, Evidence-Based Decision Making: Where are
Defendants and Their Families?, LIFE SENTENCES BLOG (Mar. 20, 2011, 8:58 PM),
http://www.lifesentencesblog.com/?p=1870 (detailing costs imposed on defendants
and their families because of evidence-based decision-making); Michael M.
O'Hear, Some Doubts About "Evidence-Based" Decision Making in Criminal Justice,
LIFE SENTENCES BLOG (Feb. 2, 2011, 11:19 PM),
http://www.lifesentencesblog.com/?p=1471 (noting various concerns about
evidence-based decision-making).





n173  NAT'L INST. OF CORR., WHITE PAPER: INNOVATORS' GROUP VIDEO CONFERENCE # 1,
at 3 (2008),
http://evidence-basedmanagement.com/wpcontent/uploads/2011/11/innovators_group_w
hite_paper_1-5-09.pdf.





n174  Id. at 3-4.





n175  Id. at 5.





n176  Id.





n177  But see CTR. FOR EFFECTIVE PUB. POLICY ET AL., supra note 156, at 2
(noting that the framework for evidence-based decision-making in local criminal
justice systems is not aimed at a onesize-fits-all approach, but rather a
broader framework with guiding principles that can be tailored to meet the needs
and structures of a particular locality's criminal justice system).





n178  NAT'L INST. OF CORR., supra note 173, at 4. This resistance may be
particularly acute because police departments and other governmental agencies
involved in the criminal justice system are accustomed to making decisions based
on accepted practices, instinct, and self-interest. Id.





n179  Id. Moreover, judges may resist such changes as they may view it as
curtailing their discretion and independence. See Borsuk, supra note 163, at 25
(noting that some judges in Milwaukee County have resisted evidence-based
decision-making because it might affect their latitude in sentencing and
independence in other areas where they traditionally have had great discretion).





n180  Steve Schultze, Milwaukee County Wins Federal Aid for Justice Programs,
JSONLINE (Aug. 10, 2011), http://www.jsonline.com/news/milwaukee/127464633.html.
The other two awardees are Eau Claire County, Wisconsin, and Mesa County,
Colorado. Id. For a copy of Eau Claire's application, see EAU CLAIRE CNTY.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COLLABORATING COUNCIL, EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION MAKING IN LOCAL
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS: PHASE III APPLICATION (2011),
http://www.co.eau-claire.wi.us/CountyDepartments/cjcc/docs/Eau_Claire_County_EBD
M_Phase_III_application.pdf.





n181  Borsuk, supra note 163, at 20. The Milwaukee County Community Justice
Council (MCCJC) was formed in 2007 and states its mission to be "to efficiently
and collaboratively coordinate services and to effectively allocate financial
resources to ensure crime reduction, victim support, offender accountability,
and restorative community-based programs." MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL
BYLAWS art. III, available at
http://www.milwaukee.gov/ImageLibrary/Groups/cjcouncil/byLaws.pdf. The various
stakeholders that founded the MCCJC--which include the County Executive,
District Attorney, Sheriff, and Chief Judge--did so as part of a settlement of
lawsuits regarding overcrowding in the county jails. Borsuk, supra note 163, at
20.





n182  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION MAKING IN
LOCAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEMS: PHASE III APPLICATION OF THE MILWAUKEE
COLLABORATIVE 1, 8 (2011),
http://www.publicpolicyforum.org/pdfs/EBDMMilwaukeeApplication.pdf.





n183  Borsuk, supra note 163, at 22.





n184  Full CJC Membership, GOMIL WAUKEE,
http://milwaukee.gov/cjc/CJCWholeCommittee.htm (last visited Nov. 30, 2011).





n185  See David A. Clarke Jr., Op-Ed, Let's Treat Criminals Like . . . Criminals
, JSONLINE (Feb. 19, 2011), http://www.jsonline.com/news/opinion/116508233.html
(Sheriff Clark, one of the Executive Committee members of the MCCJC, expressing
his opposition to some of the proposals put forth by the MCCJC); MILWAUKEE CNTY.
CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 181, at 4 and App. 111 (noting Sheriff Clark's
continued support for the work of the MCCJC and its pursuit to implement
evidence-based decision-making).





n186  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 8-9.





n187  Id. at 9.





n188  Id. at 13.





n189  Id. at 9.





n190  Id.





n191  Id. at 10.





n192  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 13.





n193  Id. at 10.





n194  See Borsuk, supra note 163, at 22.





n195  Id. at 24.





n196  Id.





n197  Id.





n198  Id.





n199  See id. at 22.





n200  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 13.





n201  Borsuk, supra note 163, at 22.





n202  MILWAUKEE CNTY. CMTY. JUSTICE COUNCIL, supra note 182, at 11-12.





n203  Id. at 12.





n204  Id. at 13.





n205  See Borsuk, supra note 162, at 20 (quoting Milwaukee County District
Attorney John T. Chisolm: "Both sides of the political spectrum must acknowledge
that talking tough on crime has reached its limits. Being smart on crime is the
solution.").





n206  Id. at 26.





n207  Id.





n208  Id.





n209  Id. at 25 (quoting Milwaukee County District Attorney John T. Chisolm:
"Risk evaluation presumes that some offenders must be incapacitated and removed
from the community in an appropriate way for an appropriate time, but it also
allows, based on validated experience, that the majority of offenders can
respond effectively to intervention and not consume justice resources without
changing behavior.").





n210  Howell, supra note 46, at 276. See also Bernard E. Harcourt & Jens Ludwig,
Broken Windows: New Evidence from New York City and a Five-City Social
Experiment, 73 U. CHI. L. REV. 271, 277 (2006) (arguing that empirical evidence
does not support the broken windows theory of community policing).





n211  See CMTY. ORIENTED POLICING SERVS., supra note 75, at 10-11 (citing
statistics that many police departments anticipate more budget cuts in 2011 and
that ninety-eight percent of responding police departments anticipate that the
current economic downturn will be at least somewhat problematic in 2012).


                               11 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday

Making a case for futuristic predictive policing in India

LENGTH: 832 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Sept. 9 -- Jharkhand police is adopting predictive policing - an
ambitious futuristic crime control method which will allow the police to
foretell not just the nature of crime, but also indicate the place where such a
felony is to take place. As understood by the layman, post-adoption of the
method, the police would be able to reach the crime scene before the crime is
committed. Quite naturally, the state police appears to be excited about the
project and have indicated that the pilot project could take off in the next
eight months and the plan for the entire state could be a reality by 2014.

For the staunch believers in and practitioners of conventional policing, the
project, which allows computers to predict crime, is a wasteful exercise. It is
being argued that the computers would be ineffective instruments of peeping into
the unpredictable 'human' nature of the criminals. It has been made out that
there is no alternative to the strengthening of the police station - the basic
structure of policing - and empowering the beat constable. While some of these
arguments are valid, to write off the role of technology in future crime
prevention may not be a good idea.

The futuristic policing system being implemented in Jharkhand in consultation
with the Ranchi campus of the Indian Institute of Management is based on
sophisticated algorithms and behavioural science- which complies crime-related
data of past years. The software then analyses the data and produces results,
predicting future crime in terms of locations and the nature of crime. The
method does sound incredible, is yet not without successes.

Several of the police departments of the developed world are gradually taking
help of software for predictive policing, with impressive returns. For example,
use of the software 'PredPol' has resulted in a 25 per cent drop in burglaries
in areas under the Los Angeles Police Department. A similar software developed
by the IBM for the South Carolina police has also led to a decrease in crime
rates. The Scotland Yard in Britain has popularised 'Facewatch' - a smart phone
application that provides the viewers the pictures of suspects who may be in
their areas. Coming across such a suspect, people can alert the police
department by simply tapping on the suspect's image.

Critiques of the futuristic policing models argue that the analytic capacities
of the software infuses no additional expertise. Police officials use past data
and their own analysis to identify crime patterns.

While that is true, it is also a fact that the ability to identify crime
patterns is intrinsically linked to capacity of the individual officers, which
is not a standard quality associated with all police officers. Benefits from the
software, thus, could be immense, especially for states which have dearth of
officials and ground-level personnel, vacancies at times running as high as 25
per cent. The software would provide instantaneous analyses, free from the
vagaries of delays and follies associated with the human planning. The system
would, thus, release more personnel to hit the road tackling crime rather than
being busy in crime trend analyses. In an age of diminishing budgets, police
departments would be able to optimise force deployment.

The biggest challenge would, however, come not from the believers in
conventional policing, but from inside the police establishment and the legal
system. Can the system work without a highly responsive and alert police force,
which wholeheartedly believes in the new operating environment? Would the courts
prosecute suspects arrested on the basis of a software prediction? Would the
system prevent crimes in new areas? The fact that answer to all these questions
is in the negative does not take away anything from the need for policing to go
futuristic and tech-savvy.

The predictive policing software does not replace the conventional policing, but
acts as an enabler. It facilitates the seamless integration of the merits of
technology with the skills of the police personnel. It does not aim at solving
crimes, but preventing them. More number of crimes being prevented would produce
less criminals in the court and aid the over-burdened judiciary.

Of all the states, Jharkhand is probably the best positioned to experiment with
predictive policing. Carved out in November 2000, it is a relatively new state,
thereby burdened with comparatively less data to be fed into the system. Its a
theatre where organised crime has mixed dangerously with extremism and
conventional criminal activities. It is also the state which has performed
exceptionally well in terms of police modernisation, especially in the past
couple of years. Jharkhand's success would possibly spur the other states to
follow suit.

bibhuroutray@gmail.com Published by HT Syndication with permission from New
Indian Express. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday

'Predictive policing' gets capital boost

BYLINE: By SHANNA McCORD Santa Cruz Sentinel

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 501 words


SANTA CRUZ   A couple of Santa Cruz entrepreneurs are predicting success with
their new crime-prevention business.

Attorney Caleb Baskin and Councilman Ryan Coonerty have taken the experimental "
predictive policing" program used by the Santa Cruz Police Department and
created software that they hope to sell to law enforcement agencies around the
nation. The duo, who founded the co-working business NextSpace, say they've
raised more than $1 million so far to fund their newest venture.

"Officers can use this to inform decisions and dedicate specific resources to
specific areas," Baskin said. "This can help direct the officers' patrol time so
they can deter or actually catch someone in the act."

PredPol, the name of their software, is based on an analytics model developed by
a group of researchers, including mathematician George Mohler of Santa Clara
University. The model used data gleaned from a study six years ago at the Los
Angeles Police Department.

The LAPD, which started testing the model in its Foothill Patrol Division in
November, has seen a 36 percent drop in burglaries and a 13 percent reduction in
overall crime since then, according to Coonerty. By comparison, crime is up 2
percent citywide, he said.

Santa Cruz police analyst Zach Friend learned about the model in October 2010
and began working with Mohler last year to test it at the Santa Cruz Police
Department.

In the year since the test program started in Santa Cruz, burglaries have
declined by 19 percent, Friend said.

The program has gained international media attention   and the attention of law
enforcement agencies nationwide, many asking how they can get the program.

Based on such requests, Friend helped coordinate a meeting between Mohler and
Baskin and Coonerty to discuss the idea of creating a business.

Baskin, 36, and Coonerty, 38, say investors who've helped fund their venture
include Plantronics CEO Ken Kannappan, former eBay executive Rob Chesnut and
Coonerty's brother-in-law Michel Protti, a vice president at Yahoo.

Baskin and Coonerty hope to sell the cloud-based software as a subscription
program with annual rates ranging from $25,000 to $250,000 depending on the
jurisdiction's population.

The Salinas Police Department, plagued by ongoing gang violence, has already
signed up for the software.

Salinas Deputy Chief Cassie McSorley said her department is excited about having
a new tool to help fight crime.

"We have issues with dwindling resources and we're trying to be smart about how
we use those resources," McSorley said. "The real-time analysis will be a rich
source of information for deployment of officers."

The software generates projections about when and where future crimes are likely
to occur. Crime statistics are computed daily and fresh data is fed into the
program.

Officers are shown digital maps at the beginning of each shift marked with boxes
representing 500-square-foot areas that are of highest risk for future crime.
They're encouraged to drive through those areas while on patrol.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Santa Cruz entrepreneurs Ryan Coonerty and Caleb Baskin will soon be
marketing predictive policing software to U.S. law enforcement agencies.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               September 23, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can sci-fi crimefighting really replace bobbies?

BYLINE: FIONNUALA BOURKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 503 words


LADIES! Whatever you do, don't cheat on your husband if you're in Warwickshire.

You could end up having to sit on the back of a ram in front of a courtroom full
of people, reciting a humiliating ditty while you hang on to its tail.

And that's not all you need to be wary of in the leafy Midland shire county. If
you try to sell shoes before 1pm you could be fined 40p.

That goes for men, too. You could also incur a 40p fine if you play tennis and
bowls too early in the day.

There's a recession on, don't you know. Such pastimes are considered a waste of
time.

And if you miss church, but manage to make it to the pub, and you're caught by a
warden, you could also face a fine.

A bigger one than the others.

Ten whole English shillings, to be precise.

Oh, hang on a minute. I thought it sounded a bit odd. These were laws that the
county was ruled by back in the Middle Ages.

They don't exist anymore. The National Archives' Manorial Documents Register put
them online for the first time last week.

In other news, we learned West Midlands Police is set to trial predictive
policing on Midland streets - just like Tom Cruise did in Minority Report.

And this is for real. I've double and triple-checked.

In case you can't remember, the 2002 hit film had a special police unit which
was able to arrest murderers before they committed their crimes.

West Midlands Police have not mentioned murder, though. Their predictive
policing scheme will deal with burglars. It will forecast who is about to be
burgled, then officers can go round and warn the potential victim.

The officers won't just tell the residents that they're under threat. They'll
check to see if their door locks are in fully working order, and see if they've
got an alarm fitted. Cops are also going to check the routes burglars take to
see if there are any common patterns.

Superintendent Alex Murray, who is leading the experiment, said: "Predictive
policing is about understanding where crime is going to happen before it's taken
place.

"We're launching two experiments to see if we can make an impact on the burglary
rates before burglary has actually happened."

Apparently previous trials took place in the suburbs of Los Angeles in the US
and showed promising results.

I know times are tough, but does the force really think this type of tactic is
going to make up for axing 2,000 members of staff in a bid to balance budgets?
The Home Office seems to think so. They're part-funding the scheme.

It might be dressed up as some kind of hi-tech crime fighting gizmo, but in
reality this has got all the originality and flair of discovering that bears go
to the woods to relieve themselves.

Apparently, the Pope is a Catholic as well.

Perhaps instead of looking to the future they should look at those ancient laws
for effective ideas to help burglary victims, many of whom feel unsafe in their
own homes and are denied the right to protect themselves.

Apparently, it's still legal to shoot a Welshman with a longbow - as long as
you're in Hereford's Cathedral Close on a Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUISE CONTROL: Tom Cruise in Minority Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMY


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               December 16, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US-style crime mapping helps catch UK thugs

BYLINE: James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 314 words


POLICE are trying to stay one step ahead of villains by using a com­ puter
program to predict where they will strike next.

It sounds like an episode of hit Channel 5 series Numb3rs in which FBI agent Don
Eppes recruits his mathematical genius brother Char­ lie to help him catch
crooks. However, the Predictive Policing method is real and having great success
in America. Los Angeles police say it has cut crime rates by 25 per cent while
their colleagues along the coast in Santa Cruz say their figures are down 19 per
cent.

Last week Kent police officers began a pilot study, using a com­ puter to draw
up maps of those areas in which crimes are most likely to be committed.

Predictions are made using a complex algorithm to process crime details such as
the time, place and method. The software is similar to that which predicts
after­ shocks following earthquakes. Kent police are using the method in
secretly selected areas. Detec­ tive Chief Superintendent John Sutton said: "We
are looking at all types of crime and anti­social behaviour. Two staff went to
Los Angeles to learn about it and we have rolled it out in the north of the
county for three months and after that it will be used county­wide for 12
months."

Zach Friend, a crime analyst with the Santa Cruz Police Depart­ ment, said: "We
have 30 per cent more calls for service but 20 per cent less staff than in 2000.
So we have to deploy our resources in a more effective way. " Los Angeles police
say the pro­ gram has saved over £3million. Captain Sean Malinowski said: "We've
prevented hundreds of homes being robbed."

LA police chief Charlie Beck said: "I'm not going to get more money. I'm not
going to get more cops. I have to be better at using what I have, and that's
what predic­ tive policing is about.

"If this old street cop can change the way he thinks about this stuff then I
know my officers can do the same."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIT: Rob Morrow and David Krumholtz in Numb3rs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                           Medway Messenger (Friday)

                               December 14, 2012

Police to tackle crime before it's been committed

LENGTH: 457  words


by Lynn Cox

lcox@thekmgroup.co.uk

POLICE in Medway are now tackling crime even before it has happened in a radical
new approach.

Officers in the Towns and other parts of the North division, which includes
Gravesend, Dartford and Swale, are piloting the ground-breaking scheme which has
reduced crime rates in parts of the United States by up to 17%.

From this week,  officers have been using the predictive policing tactic, which
analyses data to identify places where crime and anti-social behaviour are most
likely to occur.

Using advanced mathematics and analysis of human behaviour along with historic
crime data, it is more sophisticated than hot spot policing and intelligence-led
tactics.

The force has been working closely with police departments across America, such
as the Los Angeles Police Department, which has been using the initiative with
success, along with Prof Jeff Brantingham, from the University of California,
who helped invent the scheme.

Kent is the first force in the country to use it.

It is being led by Det Chief Supt Jon Sutton, who said the approach is good news
for people in Medway.

He said: "What it does is look at evidence-based crime which is likely to occur
in an area and officers go there to prevent it from happening.

"They would look at vulnerable targets, such as garages or cars being left
unlocked and contact the owners so they can get them locked up.  This will help
stop opportunist thieves targeting people's property."

Since Monday, officers in the Gravesend area have already caught a suspected
burglar in the act, by going to area highlighted by using the scheme.

Officers in Medway also identified some vehicles which had been left unsafe and
were able to contact the owners to get them to lock them before opportunist
thieves struck.

Det Ch Supt Sutton said: "Its exciting to be working on it as it will reduce the
number of victims of crime. It is a mixture of traditional policing and data.

"We've had the Americans over and we've been working with them and we expect the
initiative will reduces crime by about 3%."

The pilot will last three months and the results will be reviewed. It is set to
be rolled out across the rest of the county in April.

Ian Learmonth, Kent Police's Chief Constable said: "Predictive policing helps
address the root causes of crime rather than looking solely at the symptoms.

"It is the best example of old fashioned policing but using 21st century
technology."

It maps a small geographic area in a neighbourhood. Officers are sent to deal
with what they find and disrupt any criminal activity.  It does not replace
neighbourhood policing.

Police commissioner Ann Barnes endorses the scheme.  She said: "It fits in with
my vision of looking for new ideas that can help cut crime."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 18 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

Santa Cruz entrepreneurs build new business on predicting crime

BYLINE: Shanna McCord, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 600 words


June 11--SANTA CRUZ -- A couple of Santa Cruz entrepreneurs are predicting
success with their new crime-prevention business.

Attorney Caleb Baskin and Councilman Ryan Coonerty have taken the experimental "
predictive policing" program used by the Santa Cruz Police Department and
created software that they hope to sell to law enforcement agencies around the
nation. The duo, who founded the co-working business NextSpace, say they've
raised more than $1 million so far to fund their newest venture.

"Officers can use this to inform decisions and dedicate specific resources to
specific areas," Baskin said. "This can help direct the officers' patrol time so
they can deter or actually catch someone in the act."

PredPol, the name of their software, is based on an analytics model developed by
a group of researchers, including mathematician George Mohler of Santa Clara
University. The model used data gleaned from a study six years ago at the Los
Angeles Police Department.

The LAPD, which started testing the model in its Foothill Patrol Division in
November, has seen a 36 percent drop in burglaries and a 13 percent reduction in
overall crime since then, according to Coonerty. By comparison, crime is up 2
percent citywide, he said.

Santa Cruz police analyst Zach Friend learned about the model in October 2010
and began working with Mohler last year to test it at the Santa Cruz Police
Department.

In the year since the test program started in Santa Cruz,

burglaries have declined by 19 percent, Friend said.

"The only thing operationally we changed was using this program," Friend said.
"We didn't have any more officers on the street."

The program has gained international media attention -- and the attention of law
enforcement agencies nationwide, many asking how they can get the program.

Based on such requests, Friend helped coordinate a meeting between Mohler and
Baskin and Coonerty to discuss the idea of creating a business.

Baskin, 36, and Coonerty, 38, say investors who've helped fund their venture
include Plantronics CEO Ken Kannappan, former eBay executive and Pasatiempo
resident Rob Chesnut and Coonerty's brother-in-law Michel Protti, a vice
president at Yahoo.

Baskin and Coonerty hope to sell the cloud-based software as a subscription
program with annual rates ranging from $25,000 to $250,000 depending on the
jurisdiction's population. They said they will provide the software to the Santa
Cruz Police Department for free.

The Salinas Police Department, plagued by ongoing gang violence, has already
signed up for the software.

Salinas Deputy Chief Cassie McSorley said her department is excited about having
a new tool to help fight crime.

"We have issues with dwindling resources and we're trying to be smart about how
we use those resources," McSorley said. "The real-time analysis will be a rich
source of information for deployment of officers."

Follow Sentinel reporter Shanna McCord on Twitter @scnewsmom

At a glance

PredPol

The software generates projections about when and where future crimes are likely
to occur. Crime statistics are computed daily and fresh data is fed into the
program.

Officers are shown digital maps at the beginning of each shift marked with boxes
representing 500-square-foot areas that are of highest risk for future crime.
They're encouraged to drive through those areas while on patrol.

The crime models are similar to ones used for predicting aftershocks from
earthquakes.

___ (c)2012 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120611-QC-Santa-Cruz-entrepreneurs-build-new-business-on-predicting-crime-0611
-20120611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2012 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               17 of 18 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2012 Georgetown Law Journal
                             Georgetown Law Journal

                                   June, 2012

                             Georgetown Law Journal

                               100 Geo. L.J. 1587

LENGTH: 43680 words

ARTICLE: Decarceration Courts: Possibilities and Perils of a Shifting Criminal
Law

NAME: ALLEGRA M. MCLEOD *

BIO:



   * Associate Professor, Georgetown University Law Center. J.D., Yale Law
School, 2006; Ph.D., Stanford University, 2009. (c) 2012, Allegra M. McLeod. For
helpful discussion of the ideas explored in this Article, I am especially
thankful to Bruce Ackerman, Easha Anand, Hadar Aviram, David Barron, Guyora
Binder, Josh Cohen, David Cole, Dennis Curtis, Matthew Dimick, Sharon Dolovich,
Malcolm Feeley, Dyan Ferraris, William Hubbard, Vicki Jackson, Pam Karlan, Doug
Keller, Mark Kelman, Issa Kohler-Hausmann, Adam Kolber, Adriaan Lanni, Derin
McLeod, John T. Monahan, Judith Resnik, Tanina Rostain, Louis Michael Seidman,
Abbe Smith, Carol Steiker, Kate Stith, Jeannie Suk, David Super, Joshua C.
Teitelbaum, Detlev Vagts, Robert Weisberg, Robin West, the editors of The
Georgetown Law Journal, the research librarians at Georgetown Law Faculty
Services, and workshop participants at Georgetown University Law Center, Yale
Law School, and the 2011 Law and Society Meeting in San Francisco. I also
received many thoughtful questions and useful feedback from participants in the
faculty workshops at the following law schools: Berkeley, Brooklyn, Chicago,
Cornell, Duke, Fordham, Harvard, Minnesota, Rutgers-Camden, Seattle, Stanford,
UC Davis, University of San Francisco, University of Toronto, University of
Virginia, and the Washington College of Law at American University. Any errors
are my own.

HIGHLIGHT: A widely decried crisis confronts U.S. criminal law. Jails and
prisons are overcrowded and violence plagued. Additional causes for alarm
include the rate of increase of incarcerated populations, their historically and
internationally unprecedented size, their racial disproportionality, and
exorbitant associated costs. Although disagreement remains over the precise
degree by which incarceration ought to be reduced, there is a growing consensus
that some measure of decarceration is desirable.

   With hopes of reducing reliance on conventional criminal supervision and
incarceration, specialized criminal courts proliferated dramatically over the
past two decades. There are approximately 3,000 specialized criminal courts in
the United States, including drug courts, mental health courts, veterans courts,
and reentry courts. The existing scholarly commentary on specialized criminal
courts is largely trapped in the mode of advocacy, alternately celebratory or
disparaging, and insufficiently attentive to the remarkable variation between
different specialized criminal courts. In contrast, this Article takes a closer
and more critical look at the marked expansion of these courts as a peculiar
strategy to devise alternatives to conventional jail- and prison-based
sentencing.

   This Article reveals that specialized criminal courts have become significant
terrain for a contest between competing criminal law reformist models and that
different outcomes in this contest may portend starkly contrasting futures for
U.S. criminal law and governance. More specifically, this Article introduces a
typology and critical theoretical account of four criminal law reformist models
at work in specialized criminal courts: a therapeutic jurisprudence model, a
judicial monitoring model, an order maintenance model, and a decarceration
model. Part II argues that, whereas the first three of these models threaten to
aggravate existing pathologies in U.S. criminal law administration--expanding
criminal supervision, diminishing procedural protections, and possibly even
increasing incarceration despite opposite intended effects--the fourth, less
predominant model, a decarceration model, holds the potential to bring about
substantial transformative change in U.S. criminal law. On a decarceration
model, specialized criminal courts function as experimental diversionary
programs that assign otherwise jail- or prison-bound defendants mental health
and drug treatment, job and housing placement, along with other services in lieu
of incarceration. On this model, integration within social contexts outside
criminal justice systems substitute for the surveilling function of criminal
supervision and incarceration.

   Part III provides a theoretical framework to capture the possibilities for
criminal law reform opened by a decarceration model, which may cognitively
reframe shared understandings of crime and punishment; engage in institutional
reinvention, transforming criminal law administrative institutions into
different configurations; and facilitate systemic change by spurring conceptual
shifts and freeing resources from criminal law administration for other sectors.
Part IV begins to explore the more general perils attending a specialized
criminal courts law reform strategy, including excessive legalism; dilution of
the retributive and deterrent features of criminal punishment; inefficient
proliferating specializations; and legitimation of harshness in conventional
courts and unfairness toward less sympathetic, racial minority, or otherwise
stigmatized defendants.

TEXT:
 [*1589]  INTRODUCTION

   Significant change is afoot in U.S. criminal law. There remain roughly seven
million people incarcerated, on probation, or on parole in the United States
n1--a quantum of criminal law oversight roundly condemned by commentators across
the political spectrum and around the world.  n2 But by the turn of the
twenty-first  [*1590]  century, largely in response to growing censure and in
the face of escalating costs, states across the country committed to decrease
reliance on incarceration.  n3 Alongside state-initiated reforms, federal prison
conditions litigation contributed further incentives to decarcerate. Most
notably, the U.S. Supreme Court in Brown v. Plata affirmed an order of a
specially convened three-judge district court, which mandated that California
reduce its prison population by 40,000 prisoners over two years to eliminate
unconstitutional conditions.  n4 Yet, while pressures to decarcerate mount, it
remains unclear how it will be possible to achieve the larger scale shifts
necessary to reach and sustain markedly lower levels of criminal prosecution,
criminal supervision, and incarceration.  n5

   As one part of a broader effort to reduce reliance on conventional probation
and carceral sentencing, beginning in the early 1990s, state court judges began
to convene specialized criminal courts from Florida to California, Michigan to
Texas: drug courts, mental health courts, veterans courts, and reentry courts,
among others.  n6 These increasingly popular specialized criminal courts--of
which there are approximately 3,000 in the United States and its
territories--assume various legal institutional forms and divergent
jurisprudential approaches.  n7 Nonetheless, despite considerable variation,
what most of the courts share in common is the goal of reducing reliance on
conventional jail- and  [*1591]  prison-based sentencing in favor of
problem-oriented alternatives.  n8 The courts also empower judges to adopt
neo-realist problem-oriented roles, embrace less adversarial criminal
procedures, and aspire to more effectively protect public safety and prevent
crime.  n9

   It is uncertain, though, what specialized criminal courts actually portend.
Are these courts configured in a manner that is likely to facilitate the
intended goals of reduced or more efficacious criminal supervision and reduced
incarceration? Or, as some critics charge, do specialized criminal courts
improve judges' experience in the courts by emphasizing anti-formalist,
problem-oriented proceedings without tending to resolve the legal systemic and
social problems the courts purport to address?  n10

   This Article offers an account of how specialized criminal courts may enable
substantially reduced reliance on incarceration as well as more general
transformative criminal law reform by embracing a criminal law reformist
framework, which I term a decarceration model. However, this Article will argue
that, in their currently predominant institutional forms, specialized criminal
courts threaten to produce a range of unintended and undesirable outcomes:
unnecessarily expanding criminal surveillance, diminishing procedural
protections, and potentially even increasing incarceration.

   The existing scholarship on specialized criminal courts treats particular
substantively specialized criminal courts--drug courts, for example--as a
largely undifferentiated category, either celebrating or proposing the
abandonment of specialized criminal law administration across the board. On the
one hand, some commentators commend specialized criminal courts for facilitating
"a quiet revolution among American criminal courts"  n11 and the emergence of a
new "criminal justice paradigm."  n12 Also among the courts' supporters are
those who  [*1592]  herald specialized criminal courts as "experimentalist
governance" mechanisms enabling much-needed social and legal change not
achievable through more conventional judicial or legislative intervention.  n13
On the other hand, the courts' detractors--criminal law scholars and criminal
defense lawyers alike--have called for the abandonment or marked scaling back of
specialized criminal courts as "contraindicated" and anathema to the reformist
goals the courts' architects hoped to achieve, largely on account of procedural
rights concerns.  n14 Both of these sharply divided responses approach each type
of substantively specialized criminal court as internally homogeneous and either
entirely praiseworthy or entirely dangerous. Accordingly, there has been
insufficient attention both to the remarkable variation between specialized
criminal courts and to the different consequences potentially associated with
the courts' divergent approaches.

   This Article demonstrates, instead, that specialized criminal courts have
become the locus of an ongoing contest between four primary competing models of
reformist criminal law administration. These models are characterized by
dissimilar legal institutional features and distinct ideological and theoretical
commitments. And these divergent approaches push in quite different directions
in terms of their likely effects on incarceration practices, levels of criminal
supervision, and other desired criminal law reforms.

   Consider this motley assortment of specialized criminal courts and the
various criminal offenses, sentences, ideologies, and possible outcomes
associated with each. First, the Veterans Court of Okemos, Michigan and the case
of Staff Sergeant Brad Eifert, a veteran of the Iraq War. Armed with a
.45-caliber pistol,  [*1593]  Eifert initiated a shoot-out with police in the
woods adjacent to his home:


     The police were out there somewhere and, one way or the other,
     [Eifert] was ready to die. He raised the gun to his head and then
     lowered it. Then he fired nine rounds.

     . . . .
     Leaving his weapon, he ran into the driveway, shouting, "Shoot me!
     Shoot me! Shoot me!" The police officers subdued him with a Taser and
     arrested him. A few hours later, he sat in a cell at the Ingham County
     Jail, charged with five counts of assault with intent to murder the
     officers, each carrying a potential life sentence.

     . . . .
     . . . Eifert, having pleaded guilty to a single charge of carrying a
     weapon with unlawful intent, a felony, will officially enter the
     veterans court program. . . . [In t]welve to 18 months[,] . . . if he
     adheres to the strict regimen of treatment through the Veterans
     Affairs hospital in Battle Creek and supervision set by the court, the
     charge could be dismissed or reduced to a misdemeanor.  n15

   Compare Eifert's case and the Okemos Veterans Court to Florida's Broward
County Mental Health Court. In the words of Broward County's Judge Ginger
Lerner-Wren:


     [T]he Mental Health Court [is] a "strategy" to bring fairness to the
     administration of justice for persons being arrested on minor offenses
     who suffer from major mental disability. . . . Persons with major
     psychiatric disorders and/or mental disabilities can live and thrive
     in the community with individualized care, treatment and community
     support.  n16

   Whereas Eifert's case involved a more serious weapons charge carrying a
potentially lengthy prison sentence, Judge Lerner-Wren's Mental Health Court
concentrates on individuals accused of minor crimes. Yet, both the Broward
County Mental Health Court and the Okemos Veterans Court rely on alternative
sanctions that entail treatment primarily outside the specialized criminal
court.

   Other specialized criminal courts rely heavily on judicial monitoring as part
and parcel of alternative sentencing, rather than primarily on referral to
social services outside the criminal court, effectively tasking the judge with
the work of a probation or parole officer. For example, the Syracuse, New York
Drug Treatment Court significantly expands judicial surveillance of minor drug
offenders and uses arrest and incarceration as routine sanctions for
noncompliance with court mandates. As sociologist James Nolan explains, in one
instance:


      [*1594]  A participant in Judge McKinney's Syracuse, New York drug
     court lost his job. McKinney called the employer and learned that the
     client was regarded as a "damn good employee" and that the boss would
     "hire him back in a heartbeat" if the judge could guarantee that he
     was drug free and that he wouldn't miss any work. So the judge made a
     deal with the employer. He said to him: "Okay, I'll make a deal with
     you, you take him back and I'll add another weapon to your arsenal. If
     he doesn't come to work when he is supposed to, doesn't come to work
     on time . . . I'll put him in jail, on your say so." [The judge
     relayed the arrangement to the defendant,] telling him: "I'll get your
     job back for you, but you've got to promise you'll be at work when you
     are supposed to . . . . Your employer is now on the team of people who
     are reporting to me. When he calls up and tells me that you are late,
     or that you're not there, I'm going to send the cops out to arrest
     you."  n17

   This approach may extend criminal supervision into new domains such as the
employment context and in so doing may increase levels of at least short-term
incarceration. Quite distinctly, the mental health and veterans courts'
approaches just related are characterized by a combination of diversionary
treatment strategies that do not necessarily rely heavily on judicial
surveillance or other forms of direct criminal supervision by the court.

   These examples illustrate some of the considerable diversity in the
institutional configurations and conceptual orientations of specialized criminal
courts. These courts may focus on more minor offenses or more serious ones. They
may rely primarily on referrals to social service organizations or on direct
judicial oversight. The court proceedings themselves may aim to facilitate
behavioral modification, or social service intervention may occur entirely
outside the court context. And diversion may take place pre-plea, post-plea, or
as a post-conviction sentencing alternative.

   To begin to make sense of this diverse landscape, this Article introduces a
typology and critical theoretical account of four criminal law reformist models
at work in specialized criminal courts:


     (1) a therapeutic jurisprudence model;

     (2) a judicial monitoring model;

     (3) an order maintenance model; and

     (4) a decarceration model.  n18


The first three of these models, I argue, possess characteristics that pose a
considerable risk of deepening and extending existing pathologies in criminal
law administration, exacerbating overcriminalization and potentially expanding
[*1595]  incarceration. But the fourth model--a decarceration model--promises to
begin to reduce levels of criminalization and incarceration and to develop
experimentalist and sociologically informed alternatives to criminal law
intervention.

   These four models consist of generally interconnected institutional features
and ideological commitments on which the courts draw. Although numerous courts
reflect some characteristics of more than one model, the models are prototypes
to which existing courts roughly adhere. In identifying these basic contrasting
approaches, this typology serves to illuminate some of the underappreciated
variation between and among different specialized criminal courts, thereby
distinguishing the specific risks associated with distinct bundles of legal
institutional and ideological features, facilitating more informed empirical
analysis and clarifying the contours of various possible reform agendas being
tested in the specialized courts context.

   Before delving in greater depth into the four models and their associated
aspirations, risks, and limitations, a brief overview of each model will help to
set the stage for the analysis to follow. Courts operating on a therapeutic
jurisprudence model adopt a neo-rehabilitative approach, convening courts to
therapeutically treat offenders (and in some instances victims).  n19 On a
therapeutic jurisprudence model, the judge personally attempts to facilitate a
therapeutic process in court through routine proceedings, intermediate
sanctions, and in some instances jail- or prison-based sentencing. Substantial
efforts are devoted to making court proceedings themselves part of ongoing
psychotherapeutic interventions aimed at behavioral modification.

   The second model relies upon intensive judicial monitoring, focusing on
deterrence, defendant accountability, and expanded judicial surveillance as an
alternative or adjunct to incarceration.  n20 A court operating solely in
conformity with a judicial monitoring model eschews the court-centered
rehabilitative psychotherapeutic ambitions that are central to the therapeutic
jurisprudence model and instead emphasizes deterrent judicially administered
surveillance.

   A third model, emphasizing order maintenance, operates largely in community
courts, which address relatively minor public order violations through locally
administered intermediate sanctions such as community service.  n21 Courts
reflecting an order maintenance model are characterized primarily by their focus
on low-level quality-of-life offenses inspired by a "broken windows" theory of
policing and do not necessarily embrace either therapeutic or judicially
surveillant features.

   Then, there is the fourth, less common model, the theoretical orientation and
reformist potential of which this Article will elaborate: a decarceration model.
Specialized criminal courts adopting a decarceration model are experimental
diversionary programs that assign otherwise likely jail- or prison-bound
defendant  [*1596]  mental health and drug treatment, job and housing placement,
along with other services in lieu of incarceration.  n22 On a decarceration
model, integration within social institutions outside the criminal court
substitutes for the surveilling function of criminal supervision and
incarceration.  n23 The significant reformist possibility in a decarceration
model arises principally from its directly diversionary orientation coupled with
rigorous ongoing empirical monitoring of court experimentation to establish
whether and, if so, how non-carceral sentencing may be applied in particular
contexts without undue risk to public safety.  n24

   The models are distinct from, though often overlapping with, the
self-definitions and names of the courts. In other words, the models are
composed of bundles of legal institutional and ideological features identified
through my research in preparation of this Article--through site visits,
analysis of archived interviews, and a review of quantitative and qualitative
empirical studies--not exclusively, or even primarily, in reference to the
self-descriptions of the various courts. So while a drug court might conform to
an order maintenance model or a therapeutic jurisprudence model, in either
instance the court may still be called simply a drug court. Likewise, a mental
health court might reflect features of a judicial monitoring model but be
referred to plainly as a mental health court. Courts adopting a diversionary
decarceration approach are similarly not called decarceration courts but are
identified as drug courts or mental health courts--and for reasons of political
expedience, avoiding the decarceration terminology may be prudent. Other courts
with characteristics corresponding to a therapeutic jurisprudence model may
tailor the courts' names to reflect their therapeutic orientation, as in a
therapeutic drug court or drug treatment court. Even though multiple
institutional models may coexist in one court, one or another model generally
predominates in any given specialized criminal court.  [*1597]
      Model         Defining Characteristics               Theory
Therapeutic       Judge seeks to fulfill       Neo-rehabilitative,
Jurisprudence     therapeutic function,        Therapeutic Jurisprudence
                  personally addressing
                  psychosocial motivation to
                  offend through
                  therapeutically attuned
                  court proceedings
Judicial          Judge fulfills surveillant   Deterrence through Judicial
Monitoring        role akin to probation or    Surveillance
                  parole officer
Order             Court provides forum for     "Broken Windows"
Order-Maintenance prosecuting quality-of-life  Maintenance Hypothesis:
                  offenses that would          Reducing low level
                  otherwise receive little     quality-of-life offending
                  attention in conventional    will improve respect for law
                  criminal courts              and decrease crime overall,
                                               thereby reducing incarceration
Decarceration     Court aims primarily to      Structural/Systemic Origins of
                  reduce reliance on carceral  Overcriminalization &
                  sentencing by referring      Overincarceration: Social
                  defendants to mental health, integration fulfills
                  public health, job training, informally surveillant
                  and other sectors that serve function, a preferable
                  substitute surveilling       substitute for incarceration
                  function, and outcomes are   in wide range of cases
                  monitored to demonstrate
                  possibility of expanding
                  non-carceral approach

   The following table illustrates the defining characteristics and theoretical
bases of each of the four models.

   This Article's core argument is that the therapeutic jurisprudence, judicial
monitoring, and order maintenance models may fall short in reducing criminal
supervision and incarceration and threaten to produce otherwise harmful
outcomes; a decarceration model, however, stands to facilitate broader
transformative criminal law reform, setting in motion change processes that
could over time reduce reliance on criminal prosecution and incarceration as a
way of regulating an array of complex social problems. The risks attributed by
critics to any one particular type of specialized criminal court--drug courts,
for instance--are thus better understood as potential problems with particular
models (bundles of legal institutional and ideological features) of reformist
criminal law administration, certain of which may even tend to extend
surveillance, diminish procedural protections, and expand incarceration.  n25

   Due to this variation, coming to terms with the shifts in criminal law
manifest in specialized criminal courts will not be achieved either by simply
embracing  [*1598]  or by rejecting the turn to criminal court specialization.
Rather, the effects of specialized criminal courts will depend on an ongoing
competition over the shape and ambition of these courts. And a
decarceration-focused criminal law reform agenda--emerging in specialized
criminal courts that attempt to navigate the perils and harness the
possibilities identified in the pages to follow--holds the promise of enabling a
form of criminal law administration more narrowly tailored to address that
conduct for which criminal law intervention is most suited, allocating to other
sectors the management of a range of social concerns from addiction to mental
illness.

   Importantly then, the impact of these reformist models reaches beyond the
context of specialized criminal courts. At this moment of increasing bipartisan
interest in criminal law reform aimed at reducing incarceration, the models at
work in specialized criminal courts are likely to take on wider significance,
informing more general criminal law reform strategies. For this reason,
attention to these contrasting reformist approaches at work in specialized
criminal courts merits the sustained attention of criminal law scholars and
others concerned about the steep costs--economic and human--of the status quo in
U.S. criminal law administration and about the harms endemic in our carceral
institutions.

   This Article consists of four parts. Part I situates the contemporary
explosion of specialized criminal courts within a range of ongoing criminal law
reforms implemented to reduce levels of criminal supervision and incarceration.
Part I proposes that, as states and the federal government aim to decrease
reliance on incarceration, specialized criminal courts contribute an array of
criminal law reformist frameworks that may inform the wide-ranging, largely ad
hoc changes occurring more generally in U.S. criminal law.

   Part II provides a typology and critical analysis of four criminal law
reformist models reflected in the rapidly multiplying assortment of specialized
criminal courts. Part II considers not only whether these models are likely to
fulfill their stated purposes but also some of their possible broader effects.
An implication of the analysis in Part II is that the study of specialized
criminal courts ought to proceed in a different way than it has to date, by
attending carefully to the legal institutional and conceptual differences
between the various criminal law reformist models that the typology introduced
here identifies. Part II contends that, in certain legal institutional
configurations, specialized criminal courts may well thwart the courts'
overarching shared ambition of countering overcriminalization and
overincarceration, and that they may cause other underappreciated harms. Yet, if
differently configured, the courts contain considerable broader reaching
reformist possibilities.

   Part III explores three strategies that may enable a decarceration model to
realize its reformist potential to reduce reliance on conventional criminal
supervision and incarceration as well as to facilitate other transformative
shifts in U.S. criminal law. Part III proposes that, though it is unlikely and
possibly  [*1599]  undesirable that specialized criminal courts would be brought
to scale,  n26 even in relatively small numbers a decarceration model may effect
farther reaching reform by facilitating cognitive reframing of particular
categories of crime and punishment, engaging in institutional reinvention, and
enabling systemic change. Finally, Part IV considers the perils of a specialized
criminal courts law reform approach more generally and begins to respond to
anticipated objections.

   The analysis in Parts I through IV is informed by observation of proceedings
in an array of specialized criminal courts; archived interviews with specialized
court judges, court administrators, and court participants; a review of hundreds
of the courts' promotional materials; additional primary source material
concerning a national range of specialized criminal courts; the legal academic
and sociological literature on the courts; and previously unexamined studies of
the courts conducted by government agencies and independent research entities.
n27

   I. A SHIFTING CRIMINAL LAW

   Dissatisfaction with the status quo in U.S. criminal law administration has
led to a range of attempts to establish alternatives. The precise contours of
what such alternatives should entail are uncertain. This Part will first take
stock of the broad shifts ongoing in U.S. criminal law. Although these shifts
lack an orienting conceptual framework, specialized criminal courts have become
grounds for elaborating different criminal law reformist models, four of the
most significant of which are explored in Part II.

   Preliminarily, what does the status quo in conventional U.S. criminal law
administration entail? A powerful body of criminal law and social theoretical
scholarship bears witness to the tremendous expansion and deepening harshness of
U.S. criminal law administration during the latter decades of the twentieth and
beginning of the twenty-first centuries: to the harms and economic burdens
caused by both overcriminalization and overincarceration;  n28 to the "culture
of control" these practices engendered;  n29 and to the United States' "harsh
justice" regime,  n30 under which "the poor" and "urban outcasts" suffer most,
n31 and  [*1600]  through which we all are "governed through crime."  n32 As
substantive criminal law expanded dramatically, prosecutorial power mushroomed
and so did case load pressures and reliance on plea-bargaining.  n33 During the
1980s and 1990s, a range of causal forces pushed toward a form of governance in
the United States that relied heavily on conventional criminal law
administration to maintain social order, in large part through policing, arrest,
prosecution, probation, and often lengthy prison sentences.  n34 The results
have been disastrous, exceedingly expensive, and inhumane: racial and class
disproportion in U.S. criminal courts, jails, and prisons is staggering, with
African-American men incarcerated at a rate six times greater than that of white
men and nearly one in three young African-American men without a high school
education living behind bars.  n35 Prison and jail overcrowding is a persistent
crisis.  n36 Sexual assaults in detention settings are daily occurrences.  n37
Even for those not subject to violent physical or sexual abuse, what Charles
Dickens wrote of American jails and prisons well over a century ago remains true
today: "[T]his slow and daily tampering with the mysteries of the brain . . .
[visits] ghastly signs and tokens . . . not so palpable to the eye and sense of
touch as scars upon the flesh . . . ."  n38 "[T]hese frustrations," in the words
of sociologist Gresham Sykes in his path-breaking study, The Society of Captives
, "carry a . . . profound hurt . . . directed against the very foundations of
the prisoner's being. The individual's picture of himself as a person of
value--as a morally acceptable, adult . . . who can present some claim to merit
in his material achievements and his inner strength--begins to waver and grow
dim.  n39

    [*1601]  Of the approximately 13.5 million people who spend time in U.S.
prisons or jails over the course of a year, ninety-five percent return to
communities outside. They bring with them the psychic toll of living amidst
violence and despair and the heightened risk of having acquired contagious
diseases, impacting the public health and public safety of communities around
the country.  n40 Further, costs to maintain high levels of incarceration--with
one in thirty-one adults in the United States under some type of correctional
control  n41 --have become exorbitant and particularly politically unpopular
during a period of significant fiscal constraints.  n42

   As these costs of managing a range of social ills through criminal law and
punishment have become increasingly apparent, the hold of these practices is
slowly loosening.  n43 This poses anew a long-standing question of how to
attempt differently to achieve some measure of social order, whether through
reformed criminal law administration, the market economy, and/or reconfigured
social welfare policies.  n44

   Even absent widely shared alternative conceptual frameworks to address this
question, legislatures and courts, cognizant of the problems posed by expansive
criminalization and incarceration, have begun to intervene to scale back the
reach of criminal law, at least with regard to certain categories of offenses
and offenders. Crime rates have remained relatively low, including violent crime
rates, generating greater openness to less punitive, less prison-focused
approaches.  n45 The following sections briefly review the range of contemporary
criminal law reform efforts, first in the arenas of legislation, law
enforcement, and litigation, and then in the context of specialized criminal
courts, which will be the focus of the remainder of this Article.

    [*1602]  A. REFIGURING HARSH JUSTICE: LEGISLATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT,
LITIGATION

   There is an increasing openness on the part of legislatures, courts, and the
public to experiment with criminal law administrative alternatives, but across
the numerous contexts of ongoing reform there is no common conception of how an
alternative social-order-maintenance regime may operate without extensive
reliance on conventional criminal law enforcement. Importantly as well, the ad
hoc shifts in criminal law administration are occurring in the absence of an
account of how current shifts will be sustained in the event that one egregious
crime causes popular punitive sentiment to rise again.

   Generally, recent legislation has shortened prison terms,  n46
recharacterized some of what were previously felonies to misdemeanors,  n47 and
reduced sentences for nonviolent offenses.  n48 Additional measures divert
people charged with lower-level drug offenses from carceral sentences, apply
graduated sanctions to those who violate the rules on probation or parole, and
focus resources on reentry so as to avoid reincarceration.  n49

   At the state level, along with other criminal law reforms, mandatory minimums
have been eliminated in multiple jurisdictions. Michigan, for example, has done
away with mandatory minimum sentences for the vast majority of drug offenses.
n50 Kansas revised its sentencing guidelines to mandate treatment rather than
prison for persons convicted of drug possession.  n51 In 2009, New York repealed
the Rockefeller drug laws, which mandated sentences of at least  [*1603]
fifteen years for possession of as little as four ounces of a narcotic drug.
n52 California Senate Bill X3 18, passed in 2009, introduced numerous changes to
reduce reliance on imprisonment, including authorizing nonrevocable parole,
increasing the minimum dollar quantity for some felony-level property crimes,
and raising the number of "good-time credits" prisoners are eligible to earn
through educational programs, treatment participation, or firefighting work.
n53

   At the federal level, the Second Chance Act of 2007 provides federal funding
to the states for new criminal justice initiatives aimed at reducing recidivism
and reincarceration.  n54 The legislation supports appropriations for state and
federal programs providing employment assistance, substance abuse treatment, and
housing along with other services for individuals with criminal convictions.
n55 And, in 2010, Congress passed a bill to reduce the disparity in crack and
powder cocaine sentencing from 100:1 to 18:1.  n56

   Accompanying these legislative changes, police departments are increasingly
participating in diversionary programs at the preindictment stage, seeking to
reduce reliance on arrests, prosecution, and prison- and jail-based punishment.
n57 Some police departments have transitioned to a "problem-oriented" or "
predictive policing" model, which focuses police energies on particular areas
where certain crimes are believed to be likely to occur.  n58 The focus is on
understanding crime patterns in neighborhoods where a car theft or burglary has
taken place and allocating resources to prevent similar future acts in
significant  [*1604]  measure through design interventions such as improved
lighting and visibility, or more frequent patrols.  n59

   Shifts are also reflected in Supreme Court case law. Rehabilitation--for
decades largely rejected as a theory of punishment--was invoked by the Court in
its 2010 opinion in Graham v. Florida, which extended proportionality review in
the noncapital context to restrain penal severity.  n60 The Court categorically
invalidated the sentence of life imprisonment without parole for juveniles for
nonhomicide offenses on the grounds that the sentence rejected "altogether the
rehabilitative ideal," providing "no chance for reconciliation with society, no
hope" for one who committed a crime while still "a child in the eyes of the
law."  n61 And in Brown v. Plata, a majority of Supreme Court justices joined an
opinion upholding a specially convened three-judge district court's prison
population reduction order and decrying the inhumane conditions for mentally ill
and infirm inmates in California's prisons.  n62

   These developments are in line with recommendations to reduce dependence on
incarceration and criminal supervision urged by liberal criminal law scholars
and criminologists since at least the mid-1990s.  n63 Many of these reforms have
more recently been embraced by political conservatives as well.  n64

   Although these changing approaches and attitudes have affected every level of
criminal law administration from policing to parole and probation, there is
nonetheless a more general, persistent uncertainty about how better to
administer criminal law so as to depart significantly from current
practices--and perhaps more critically, how to expand and sustain support for
alternatives to incarceration and conventional criminal supervision. Part of
what is lacking is what criminologist Mary Bosworth describes as a "coordinated
conceptual framework to help shift not only penal institutions and practices but
also those more subtle structures of feeling and belief that have proven so
effective in ratcheting up punitive practice."  n65

   Specialized criminal courts are engaged in the work of shaping coordinated
[*1605]  conceptual and institutional frameworks to inform criminal law reform
processes, and there are at least four distinct reformist approaches represented
in existing specialized criminal courts. The following section explores the
emergence of contemporary specialized criminal courts--their heterogeneous and
common ambitions, histories, and ambits--before turning in the following Part to
a typology and critical analysis of four reformist models at work in these
courts.

   B. CRIMINAL COURT REFORM: SPECIALIZED CRIMINAL COURTS

   The contemporary specialized criminal courts movement was spearheaded by
state court judges dismayed with the miscarriages of justice they witnessed
daily in their courts. Although the progenitors of specialized criminal courts
sought initially only to devise different solutions for their respective local
jurisdictions, the specialized courts approach took off and the courts'
influence expanded nationally. As specialized criminal courts spread across the
United States, the courts came to reflect considerable institutional diversity.

   Of the approximately 3,000 specialized criminal courts in the United States,
the original and most numerous are drug courts. Beginning in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, judges dissatisfied with their role in processing drug cases began
to convene drug courts to reduce reliance on incarceration in favor of treatment
and other monitoring processes for drug-related offenses. Among the first
contemporary adult specialized criminal courts, the Miami-Dade Drug Court was
established in 1989 to reduce reliance on jail and prison in dealing with
low-level drug offenders.  n66 To promote these initiatives, state court judges
collaborated with prosecutors, public defense counsel, and ultimately state
legislatures and the federal government. Former Attorney General Janet Reno,
when she was a local prosecutor in Florida, was instrumental in establishing the
Miami-Dade Drug Court; and then, when Reno became Attorney General of the United
States, she used her control over federal criminal justice spending to urge
other states to adopt similar initiatives.  n67 Subsequently drug courts have
received overwhelming bipartisan support.  n68

    [*1606]  At the National Drug Court Conference in 1998, Judge Jeffrey
Tauber, Oakland, California's first drug court judge and then-President of the
National Association of Drug Court Professionals, addressed his audience of more
than 2,500 drug court professionals, predicting the growing influence that drug
courts would wield in coming years: "[W]e have clearly proven through the work
that we've done, through our numbers, through the effectiveness of our courts,
that this field, this movement, this organization is ready to take center stage,
is ready to move its own agenda forward on . . . the local, state, and national
levels."  n69

   Indeed, in the years to follow drug courts sprung up around the country. As
the number of drug courts increased, their institutional configurations came to
vary substantially. Like the first Miami-Dade Drug Court program, drug courts
generally aim to help narcotics-involved offenders to stay off drugs by offering
the opportunity to enter drug rehabilitation rather than incarceration, but many
drug courts increasingly address a range of other crimes presumably associated
with drug use, such as shoplifting, prostitution, and burglary.  n70 Some drug
courts admit defendants with lengthy and serious felony records, while others
limit eligibility to those with nonviolent minor charges.  n71

   Shortly after the advent of the drug court movement, mental health courts,
community courts, domestic violence courts, and, later, veterans courts, sex
offense courts, and reentry courts emerged in jurisdictions around the United
States. Each of these categories of specialized criminal courts represents a
largely judicially innovated attempt to work around perceived inadequacies in
the conventional criminal law administrative approach in the area in
question--whether arrests and prosecutions of mentally ill individuals,
veterans, persons accused of domestic violence, alleged sex offenders, or
parolees.

   Criminal law administration within specialized criminal courts generally
adopts a neo-realist jurisprudence, which its proponents call problem-solving
justice or, to my mind more accurately, problem-oriented justice.  n72 This has
led  [*1607]  some commentators to label all specialized criminal courts
interchangeably, "problem-solving courts,"  n73 a term that connotes an aim on
the part of the courts to address problems both in the legal system and in the
lives of defendants appearing before the courts.  n74

   It is noteworthy that judges themselves have been the primary driving force
behind the specialized-criminal-courts movement, working cooperatively with
prosecutors, defense counsel, and other interested elected officials to convene
specialized criminal courts. As criminal law enforcement expanded during the
latter decades of the twentieth century and many more cases entered the criminal
courts, dockets swelled.  n75 More cases meant more pressure on judges to
resolve cases quickly, leading to reduced judicial morale.  n76 In response to
their deep dissatisfaction with their own role in criminal law administration,
judges sought to devise an alternative legal institutional framework for at
least some categories of criminal cases, obtaining initially the support of
locally elected prosecutors and, subsequently, as the specialized-criminal-court
initiatives expanded, broader legislative support.  n77 In promoting specialized
court programs as a criminal law reform standard, judges and other court
advocates increasingly have collaborated with specialized court consultants,
such as the  [*1608]  Center for Court Innovation, a New York City-based
organization, and with legal academics.  n78

   State legislatures and the U.S. Congress have endorsed the specialized courts
approach by incorporating diversionary specialized court sentencing into
statutory provisions and by authorizing state and federal funding for
specialized criminal courts. In this regard, the specialized courts movement may
be understood as a widely endorsed work-around of political process defects:
whereas "tough on crime" norms make decriminalization or other downscaling of
punishment less available, specialized criminal courts allow officials to appear
"smart" rather than "soft" on crime. For example, in 2000 Congress enacted
America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project, which authorized federal
funds for states and counties to develop mental health courts and diversion
programs rather than more directly tackling the overincarceration of mentally
ill persons.  n79 Financed with a combination of state and federal funding,
mental health courts aim to address the disproportionate number of persons with
mental illness under criminal supervision and to reduce reliance on
incarceration in responding to the conduct of mentally ill individuals. Although
the first generation of mental health courts largely excluded persons charged
with violent offenses, some mental health courts now accept individuals facing
violent felony charges.  n80 Also in 2000, the Office of Justice Programs'
Reentry Court Initiative funded reentry courts to facilitate ex-convicts'
returns from prison to their respective communities of residence.  n81 Reentry
courts convene team-based efforts that typically involve a judge, a social
worker, and a mental health professional, who design a diversionary social
service supervisory regimen for parolees and help to facilitate access to
employment and housing.  n82

   Veterans courts, convened beginning in the mid-2000s, are specialized courts
established to address socially disruptive behavior on the part of veterans,
many of whom are suffering mental health problems arising from combat-related
post-traumatic stress disorder.  n83 Those accused of violent crimes are in some
instances able to participate in veterans courts, which rely on alternative
sentences involving predominately mental health and medical treatment along with
[*1609]  other services.  n84

   In contrast to drug courts, mental health courts, and veterans courts,
domestic violence courts and sex offense courts generally operate with less
reference to rehabilitative goals. Instead, domestic violence and sex offense
courts, for the most part, seek to provide individually tailored monitoring of
defendants charged and/or convicted in domestic violence or sex offense cases
and, in some instances, more meaningful service provision for complainants. But
some domestic violence and sex offense courts also seek to reduce reliance on
incarceration. Domestic violence and sex offense courts with an
incarceration-reduction mission intend for monitoring and services to serve as
an alternative to jail- or prison-based sentencing and to work to break
preexisting cycles of violence and abuse so as to limit levels of
reincarceration. As Brooklyn's Felony Domestic Violence Court Judge John
Leventhal explained:


     I saw people going to jail for two years for not paying child support,
     which is a condition of their order of protection . . . [and] I was .
     . . surprised to see such a large violation and probation calendar. I
     wanted to cut that down. How do we cut that down? We bring them back
     while they're on probation, before they're really violating in a bad
     way, to keep them on the right track. . . . For the first four years
     or five years that we were doing it, we had half the violation rate of
     the general probation population--which is incredible considering that
     you have targeted victims and people who know each other. Since then I
     think our violation rate has gone down even further.  n85


So in domestic violence courts, such as Judge Leventhal's, judicial monitoring
aims to reduce carceral sentencing, reoffending, and reincarceration, even
though these goals were not the explicit initial motivations for convening most
domestic violence courts.

   Likewise, sex offense courts have been promoted to more effectively monitor
persons accused or convicted of sex offenses.  n86 Yet, some of these courts
simultaneously seek to shift criminal law administration in sex offense cases to
[*1610]  make the criminal supervisory regime more reasonable and less likely to
result in reincarceration for technical violations. Contrary to public
perception, most convicted sex offenders receive little prison time in their
initial sentence and are subject primarily to terms of probation or a short
carceral sentence followed by parole.  n87 Still, in many jurisdictions the vast
majority of convicted sex offenders--even those charged only with an offense
stemming from public exposure or sex with a person just a few years younger than
the accused--are subject to sex offender registration and residential
restrictions that make life extremely difficult and may encourage criminal
behavior by socially isolating sex offenders.  n88 Sex offense courts permit
modifications of certain of these restrictions where doing so is thought to be
reasonable, so that the response to persons charged and convicted of sex
offenses may unfold with greater moderation and rationality.  n89 As Judge James
McCarthy, the first presiding judge of the Oswego County Sex Offense Court in
New York has explained, the ambition of his court in offering a more
individualized monitoring regime for convicted sex offenders is in part to make
it such that "the sex offender can live somewhere and work somewhere, without
being demonized, while still being closely supervised."  n90 The sex offense
courts may also be conceptualized in some instances, then, as an attempt to work
around existing criminal law regimes that appear to judges and other interested
persons to be irrational or excessively harsh, where more thoroughgoing
legislative modification is unavailable. The courts aim to devise an alternative
regime to mitigate the perceived ill effects of the conventional processes and
to develop a different approach that may have as an important side effect
reduced reliance on incarceration in response to technical violations.  n91

   There are, as of this writing, in jurisdictions across the United States,
approximately 300 mental health courts,  n92 200 domestic violence courts, and
thirty community courts, more than 2,000 drug courts, and in excess of 500
[*1611]  other specialized criminal courts including sex offense and veterans
courts.  n93 Those states with numerous specialized criminal courts span the
country, including jurisdictions as diverse as Alaska, California, Indiana, and
New York.  n94 There is no single foundational document to which all specialized
criminal courts refer, and no unified theory that captures their complicated
interrelationships and diverse projects. But although the initial impetuses for
convening specialized criminal courts differed, most of their founders share in
common the hope of devising better substantially non-carceral approaches to
criminal law administration, at least for certain categories of offenders.  n95

   Specialized criminal courts have now reached some measure of maturity and
there are at least four legal institutional and conceptual reformist models to
which the existing courts roughly correspond. In fact, what may make specialized
criminal courts politically palatable is also what makes their eventual outcome
uncertain: their form is sufficiently open so as to incorporate any or several
of these four often quite divergent reformist approaches.  n96 As a result, what
specialized criminal courts ultimately portend for U.S. criminal law remains
ambiguous, a matter over which there should be much more rigorous and reasoned
debate than has occurred to date.

   II. FOUR REFORMIST MODELS AT WORK IN SPECIALIZED CRIMINAL COURTS

   This Part introduces a typology and critical theoretical analysis of four
criminal law reformist models at work in specialized criminal courts--(a) a
therapeutic jurisprudence model; (b) a judicial monitoring model; (c) an order
maintenance model; and (d) a decarceration model--with particular emphasis on
the models' respective aspirations, potential unintended harms, and reformist
possibilities. This Part argues that, whereas the first three more predominant
models possess characteristics that threaten a range of unintended and harmful
consequences, the fourth model--a decarceration model--holds considerable
promise to facilitate broader transformative criminal law reform.  n97 The
following Part, Part III, explores in greater detail three criminal law reform
strategies that a decarceration model may set in motion.

    [*1612]  A. THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE MODEL

   Specialized criminal courts adopting a therapeutic jurisprudence model are at
work in every state in the country and increasingly in a wide range of foreign
jurisdictions.  n98 This model draws heavily on a theoretical framework
developed by law professors David Wexler and Bruce Winick.  n99 Wexler and
Winick's fundamental premise is that law may operate in ways that are
therapeutic or anti-therapeutic so as to improve or undermine people's
psychological well-being.  n100 According to Wexler and Winick, all other things
being equal, legal actors should seek to promote therapeutic outcomes over
anti-therapeutic ones. In urging attention to the therapeutic consequences of
legal arrangements, Wexler and Winick recommend: "[W]e should . . . see if the
law could be reshaped to make it into more of a healing force, a therapeutic
force."  n101

   In a certain respect, in the criminal law context a therapeutic jurisprudence
model is a repackaging of a rehabilitative theory of sentencing that also
borrows from restorative justice approaches, but therapeutic jurisprudence is
farther reaching.  n102 The judge in a therapeutic specialized criminal court
does not simply assign a sentence that aims to rehabilitate or serve a
therapeutic or restorative function. Instead, the court proceedings
themselves--whether through the judge's warm encouragement or "tough love"--are
intended to promote therapeutic outcomes. The entire legal process--in fact, the
entire institutional operation of the court as such--is to be reconceived on the
therapeutic model. Although Wexler and Winick make clear that therapeutic
concerns ought not necessarily take precedence over other considerations, they
do not provide any concrete manner to evaluate or rank therapeutic priorities
relative to other matters, leading their adherents in therapeutic criminal
courts to prioritize therapeutic concerns over others in at least certain
contexts when conflicts between contending values emerge.  n103 Accordingly, to
the extent earlier critiques leveled against rehabilitative punishment and
indeterminate sentencing may apply to a therapeutic jurisprudence model, they
apply with even greater force because, on a therapeutic jurisprudence model, the
rehabilitative or therapeutic ambition stretches beyond sentencing and
punishment to nearly every  [*1613]  aspect of the court proceedings.  n104

   Once a defendant opts into a specialized therapeutic criminal court, "all of
the major players in the courtroom--judge, prosecutor, and defense
attorney--explicitly acknowledge that the goal is to change [the defendant's]
behavior, moving [the defendant] from addiction to sobriety and from a life of
crime to law-abiding behavior."  n105 In contrast to the traditional adversarial
model of the disengaged, dispassionate judge whose primary task is to decide
cases fairly and impartially,  n106 therapeutic judges are active and engaged,
invested in acquiring expertise regarding the problems they address. On a
therapeutic model, the specialized criminal court judge--whether in a drug
court, mental health court, therapeutic sex offense court,  n107 or another type
of specialized therapeutic criminal court--engages in a direct, emotional, and
frequently effusive manner with defendants, who are often referred to as the
courts' "clients."

   In Washington, D.C.'s Mental Health Diversion Court, for example, Judge Linda
Kay Davis greets defendants by warmly asking them how they are doing and how
they are feeling.  n108 She encourages them in their accomplishments and, for a
sustained period of good behavior--clean drug tests and regular attendance of
psychotherapy--she gives them a rose, a certificate, and a coin.

   The D.C. Mental Health Diversion Court is part of the Criminal Division and
exercises jurisdiction over defendants who have been diagnosed with mental
illness and who may qualify for deferred prosecution while undergoing mental
health treatment. Many defendants in the D.C. Mental Health Diversion Court also
suffer from co-occurring drug addiction.

   In demonstrating her heartfelt concern for the defendants/clients in her
court, Judge Davis descends from the bench to deliver her gifts to those who
successfully complete her prescribed treatment program. She explains that the
coin is to remind them of their hard work, though it carries no monetary value.
In the spirit of therapeutic jurisprudence, Judge Davis asks defendants who fail
drug  [*1614]  tests or other court requirements "what the court can do to help"
and extends and intensifies their period of court supervision.  n109

   The actual therapeutic or other effects of this engagement remain uncertain.
Judge Davis, for instance, who was once a public defender at D.C.'s Public
Defender Service, conducts her court in a therapeutic manner that appears
eminently humane, though she has no formal psychotherapeutic expertise.
Illustrating the bizarre quality and uncertain psychotherapeutic impact of
merging judicial and therapeutic roles, one afternoon in mental health court,
Judge Davis greeted a defendant/client with smiles and congratulations, telling
the mentally ill defendant/client how "proud" she was of her, and how the
defendant/ client was "really doing well," about which the judge relayed
"delight." But the clerk interrupted the exchange to point out to the judge that
the day prior the defendant/client had tested positive for cocaine. Judge Davis
then desisted in her praise, extended the defendant/client's term in the
criminal supervisory program, issued a stern warning about noncompliance, and
ordered the defendant/ client to talk to the assigned therapist about the
relapse. The mentally ill defendant/client looked visibly pleased at the judge's
initial encouraging approval and then visibly distraught by the abrupt turn of
events. The defendant/ client reported to the judge directly (not through
counsel) having difficulty finding an available individual therapist to comply
with the court's orders as none were available, and she related that she was
hanging out with drug users, which made it hard for her to resist using drugs.
It appeared unclear whether the defendant/client understood that the role of the
judge was distinct from that of a mental health care provider or other
counselor. The judge listened in front of the full courtroom and then called the
next defendant/client.

   Whatever uncertainties attend Judge Davis's therapeutic courtroom
methodology--and indeed she appears compassionate and well-intentioned in her
dealings with the defendants/clients who appear before her--an additional
potential problem posed by the therapeutic jurisprudence model is that, in
promoting itself as a useful treatment approach, it may cause other criminal
justice system actors--particularly police and prosecutors--to likewise view the
court as a treatment outlet. This may lead relatively minor cases to go forward,
offenses that perhaps ought not to be prosecuted in the first instance. But
these cases come to the court for extended court proceedings rather than just
being dropped, or the defendants simply referred for treatment because the court
itself, rather than the social service organization conducting therapeutic
treatment, is understood to be a central part of the therapeutic process.

   This potential "net widening"  n110 effect of a therapeutic model of
specialized  [*1615]  criminal law administration underscores that criminal
courts are part of a working institutional and social system, not simply sites
for interpersonal conduct modification.  n111 As criminal law scholar Guyora
Binder has persuasively argued: "Punishment is not a behavior, but an
institution. It is part of a system that involves conduct norms, an
authoritative procedure for generating these norms, an authoritative procedure
for decisions to impose sanctions, and some measure of practical power over
persons or resources."  n112 When specialized criminal courts operate on a
therapeutic model they exert system-wide institutional effects, likely shaping
what cases are brought to criminal court, and to which agencies' treatment
resources are allocated. And all the while, therapeutic judges exercise
substantial power over defendants/clients.

   Given the authoritative force of therapeutic judges' determinations, a
further set of problems may arise if judges administering criminal law on a
therapeutic model believe themselves to be acting in the therapeutic interests
of the defendants/clients before them but are not as humane as Judge Davis.
Accounts of the Glynn County, Georgia Drug Court suggest that the former
presiding judge there wielded her therapeutic judicial authority with an iron
fist.  n113 For infractions as minor as a first offense of forging two checks
totaling 100 dollars, one young woman was sentenced to ten and a half years
under criminal supervision: five and one half years in the Glynn County Drug
Court, including fourteen months behind bars, and then an additional six months
locked up, followed by four and one half years on probation.  n114

   This young woman, Lindsay Dills, forged two of her father's checks, entered
the Glynn County Drug Court, missed a curfew, and failed a drug screen. As a
consequence, without further ado, she spent seven days in jail. Dills reported
that Drug Court Judge Amanda Williams "would flip out every time [Dills] went
before her. . . . [S]he was just . . . screaming . . . in court. . . . [S]he's
standing behind the bench, with a microphone and screaming . . . ."  n115 For
subsequent technical violations, such as a missed curfew or dirty urine tests,
Dills  [*1616]  reported spending 51 days, 90 days, and 104 days incarcerated,
until Judge Williams sent Dills away on an "indefinite sentence."  n116 In
Dills' own words:


     So I get to the jail house and I call my dad immediately . . . from
     the pay phone that's in the booking area. And I hear the phone ring .
     . . where the booking area is. And they answer it and I heard them
     say, "Dills." . . . So I'm on the phone and they said, "Dills hang
     that phone up." And I'm like, "OK." [S]o I turn around and the[y] tell
     me that Judge Williams has now called and ordered me to have no
     further contact: no phone, no visitation and no mail. And that I'd be
     put in their isolation cell. And I'm like, "How long?" [T]hey're like,
     "We don't know." And I'm like, "Well for the whole 28 days that I'm
     here?" And they said, "Well your order is now indefinite."
     . . . .
     . . . I cried a lot . . . . I was like, "How is this happening? How is
     this ethical? . . . Have I killed someone that I don't know about?" .
     . . But there's nothing I can do about it. Because I can't even use
     the phone. I can't even send a letter.  n117


Dills reportedly came to the attention of the jail authorities when she
attempted suicide after weeks in isolation by cutting open her wrists.  n118

   Judge Williams's interest in starting a drug court was personal: she had
addiction in her own family and believed in "tough love."  n119 Although the
National Association of Drug Court Professionals discourages such a punitive
approach, the malleability of therapeutic jurisprudence when administered by
lay-therapist judges makes it all too likely that judges will confuse therapy
with punishment and that their unchecked retributive impulses will be brought to
bear under the guise of therapeutic jurisprudence.  n120

   Such potential miscarriages of therapeutic jurisprudence expose another
significant overlooked feature of specialized criminal courts operating on a
therapeutic model. Therapeutic courts attempt to rid themselves of the various
traditional approaches to criminal law administration and
punishment--retribution, deterrence, incapacitation  n121 --in favor of a
therapeutic approach. While conventional criminal courts generally (at least in
principle) administer criminal law with self-conscious reference to a compound
of retributive, deterrent, and other  [*1617]  punishment approaches,
specialized criminal courts adopting a therapeutic cast seek to purify the
administration of criminal law to one putatively rehabilitative "therapeutic"
variant.  n122 The risk of this attempted purification is that it is difficult
to disentangle deterrent, therapeutic, and retributive impulses in criminal
punishment,  n123 and so cordoning off certain courts as purely involved in
therapeutic interventions may both misstate what is actually occurring in those
courts and undermine judicial self-consciousness about whether the punitive
effects of particular decisions are proportional to the offending conduct and no
greater than necessary to deter offending behavior.  n124 Indeed, some judges
administering specialized criminal courts on a therapeutic model label their
courts' sanctions "smart punishment" but propose that "[s]mart punishment is not
really punishment at all, but a therapeutic response."  n125

   Although the problem of disproportionate punitiveness might in principle be
resolved by having all specialized criminal courts adopt sentencing ceilings for
technical violations, courts operating on a therapeutic model embrace an
anti-formalist, problem-oriented, discretionary approach that rejects such
externally imposed, pre-fixed constraints. This model, when it comes to
predominate over other approaches to criminal law administration, thus threatens
to place judges with extraordinary power in a position where they act in what
they perceive to be defendants'/clients' therapeutic interests but with
unchecked, potentially punitive effects, unimpeded by principles of
proportionality characteristic of a retributive theory of punishment. This is
all the more troubling because these judges may lack formal psychotherapeutic
expertise and many are likely exhausted by the undoubtedly difficult work of
dealing with criminally accused addicted or mentally ill individuals, often in
under-resourced environments. The relaxation of procedural safeguards as part of
an anti-formalist, team-based,  [*1618]  therapeutic approach only stands to
exacerbate these problems if judges are not particularly conscientious.

   A further limitation of the therapeutic jurisprudence model has to do with
the difficulty of bringing a therapeutic court-based approach to scale, even
were that to be a desirable outcome--a matter on which the preceding analysis
should cast some doubt. Although the reformist potential of a therapeutic model
rests on being able to administer therapy to individual defendants through the
courts, these courts only address a small fraction of drug cases or other
relevant categories of cases in the system. As of 2005, the number of
individuals in drug court programs was 70,000, as compared to a population on
probation of about four million individuals, many of whom are drug-involved
offenders.  n126 To reach even ten percent of individuals serving a probationary
sentence, the number of therapeutic drug courts would need to increase
enormously.  n127 The Akron Mental Health Court as of 2004 handled at one time
approximately 120 clients, only a small fraction of the many thousands of
mentally ill individuals likely to be caught up in Ohio's criminal justice
system.  n128 The Louisiana Mental Health Court as of 2009 had eighty-five
participants and operated one day per week.  n129 Administering therapeutic
jurisprudence through convening separate specialized criminal courts is also
relatively costly, further decreasing the likelihood that it will be possible to
bring this model to scale even were this to be a sought-after result.

   In any event, there is considerable cause to question whether specialized
criminal courts adopting a therapeutic jurisprudence model ought to be brought
to scale given that proceedings in these courts appear to possess certain
inherent features that may tend to exacerbate some of the most troubling
problems associated with the adjudication of criminal cases in conventional
courts, including unnecessary terms of incarceration for minor or technical
violations and prevalent procedural irregularities. On a therapeutic model, any
judicial tendencies in these directions are more likely to be unchecked.

   Worse still, on a therapeutic jurisprudence model, procedural shortcutting or
unnecessary incarceration may be defended as therapeutic, rendering it less
susceptible to critical engagement.  n130 For instance, when California drug
court  [*1619]  judges wished to amend the California penal code to reduce the
privacy rights of drug court defendants/clients, one judge defended the practice
as follows: "I support a search clause for drug treatment court clients because
I think a search clause is therapeutic . . . . I don't see a search clause as a
sanction so much as an additional therapeutic intervention that will help them
succeed."  n131 The potentially problematic effects of this curtailment of
privacy are obscured by a therapeutic justificatory approach that is difficult
for non-experts to critically confront on its own terms. And even if, on
balance, relinquishing some privacy protections may be socially desirable
because it serves to reduce recidivism, casting the argument for this approach
in vague psychotherapeutic terms obscures, rather than illuminates, the relevant
considerations at stake.

   A therapeutic jurisprudence model thus does little by itself to reduce
reliance on criminal supervision and incarceration unless administered by a
judge already inclined to reduce carceral sentencing and enable other positive
interventions; and in fact, in the wrong judge's hands, a therapeutic approach
may cause significant harm. Reliance on jail sentences as a sanction for
noncompliance with treatment or other technical requirements can actually result
in substantial carceral penalties.  n132 Potential net widening effects
associated with placing criminal courts in the role of administering therapeutic
interventions also threatens to increase criminal case filings and, hence,
overall levels of criminal supervision and quite possibly incarceration.  n133
Although a therapeutic jurisprudence model nonetheless appeals to many because
it repackages (and resurrects) a rehabilitative sentencing approach, it does so
with considerable risk of engendering a variety of unintended and undesirable
consequences, both for rule of  [*1620]  law principles and for the persons it
is intended to benefit.

   The answer to these problems is to disentangle reformist criminal law
administration from a particular set of predefined therapeutic jurisprudential
commitments and instead to experiment with jurisprudential content so as to
reduce reliance on incarceration and to divert cases to other sectors that may
more meaningfully address social goals. The appropriate reconceptualization for
the courts is as a strategy to enable decarceration, their unifying feature
being that they are experimenting with criminal law administration to reduce
carceral sentencing in favor of preferable approaches rather than adapting a
therapeutic methodology for criminal law. But before turning to a decarceration
model, it remains in the following sections to explore the other predominant
reformist models at work in specialized criminal courts.

   B. JUDICIAL MONITORING MODEL

   The defining characteristic of specialized criminal courts operating on a
judicial monitoring model is that they rely primarily on judges to engage in
monitoring of defendants or participants who may be asked to submit to urine
tests and curfews and to attend court appointments as often as several times per
week.  n134 The theoretical basis of the judicial monitoring model is that
intensified judicially administered criminal surveillance will reduce future
misconduct, at lesser cost than incarceration, and with greater efficacy than
conventional probation or parole. As distinct from the therapeutic jurisprudence
model, specialized criminal courts operating exclusively on a judicial
monitoring model do not aim to generate therapeutic outcomes through courtroom
proceedings. Instead, the judge is empowered to closely monitor defendants'
compliance with court mandates in a manner akin to a probation or parole
officer. On the judicial monitoring model, the court retains jurisdiction to
monitor the defendant/ participant during pretrial proceedings. And when the
court assigns a non-carceral sentence, the judge mandates reporting back to the
court on a regular basis.

   The impetus for judicial monitoring courts arose largely due to an acute
sense of the limits of conventional probation and other non-carceral forms of
criminal supervision. Although probation is by far the most common criminal
sanction in the United States,  n135 with caseloads of up to 1,000 probationers
per officer, the degree of supervision is frequently minimal.  n136 Judicial
monitoring aims to improve supervision by transferring authority to judges to
monitor defendants. This transfer, it is hoped, will reduce recidivism and
thereby reduce incarceration.

    [*1621]  Two examples of specialized criminal courts operating primarily on
the judicial monitoring model are domestic violence courts and sex offense
courts, though certain drug courts and other specialized criminal courts also
function primarily as judicial monitoring bodies. Intensive monitoring of
defendants in domestic violence cases aims to encourage greater compliance with
protective orders and attendance of anger management trainings.  n137 Judicial
monitoring sex offense courts likewise supervise defendants' compliance with
court mandates and mandatory treatment.  n138 A judicial monitoring model as
applied to drug courts extends judicial supervision over drug offenders. In some
jurisdictions' drug courts, judicial monitoring is coupled with a therapeutic
jurisprudential approach. In other jurisdictions it is not.  n139

   Although judicial monitoring relies in part on technological devices to
facilitate monitoring, the judicial role shifts in these courts in ways that
pose considerable risks of judicial overreaching, expanded surveillance, and
increased incarceration for technical violations. Due to the large numbers of
criminal cases disposed of with probationary sentences--and the tremendous
capacity of the defense, computer, and electronic industries--there is an
extensive market for electronic monitoring, voice verification systems, and
inexpensive on-site drug testing on which monitoring may rely.  n140 But the
central feature of judicial monitoring, as opposed to probation or parole, is
that the judge plays an active role in overseeing surveillance of defendants.
And once a judge becomes the monitor of defendants' compliance with court
orders, the judge's role changes from one of, at least in principle,
adjudicative neutrality to more active investigative supervision on behalf of
the state. Simultaneously, a judicial monitoring model threatens to expand,
rather than reduce, levels of criminal supervision and at least short-term
incarceration because more intensive supervision increases the likelihood of
identifying technical violations, which increases the likelihood of short-term
incarceration. This increased likelihood is true particularly because, in many
judicial monitoring courts, incarceration is the default penalty for technical
violations that do not even rise to the level of criminally chargeable
misconduct.  n141

   One particularly striking example of the judicial role transformation and
expanded criminal surveillance associated with the judicial monitoring model can
be found in the ethnographic work of sociologist James Nolan, who undertook
several multi-year studies of drug courts and other specialized criminal courts.
As related in this Article's introduction, in Judge McKinney's Syracuse, New
York drug court, Nolan found that judicial monitoring empowered  [*1622]  the
judge to delegate reporting authority to the defendant's employer, to whom Judge
McKinney promised a deal: "[Y]ou take [the defendant] back and I'll add another
weapon to your arsenal. If he doesn't come to work when he is supposed to,
doesn't come to work on time . . . I'll put him in jail, on your say so."  n142
Invasive judicial monitoring of this sort may result in part from the court's
understanding of itself as engaged purely in deterrent conduct-shaping
monitoring rather than punishment. As on the therapeutic jurisprudence model,
which is (ostensibly) solely rehabilitative in its focus, on the judicial
monitoring model specialized criminal courts seek to purify their approach to a
solely deterrence-based framework. But as with the neo-rehabilitative approach
of the therapeutic jurisprudence model, the judicial monitoring model is
unconstrained by concerns of proportionality and operates without
self-consciousness of its potentially punitive and overreaching, rather than
purely deterrent, effects. Also, because the judicial monitoring model treats
the unconstrained authority of the judge to solve problems as central to its
mission, it is no solution simply to constrain sanctions for technical
violations to those that would have been available had the defendant gone
through the conventional process or to those that would otherwise be
proportional to particular sorts of violations.

   Further, because a judicial monitoring model is frequently dominant in
specialized courts where retributive responses are likely to be triggered--such
as domestic violence and sex offense courts--the threat of punitive judicial
overreaching in carrying out purportedly purely deterrent monitoring is of
special concern.  n143 In other words, whereas the therapeutic approach tends to
dominate in courts addressing more sympathetic cases--those involving drug
addicts, veterans, or the mentally ill--the punitive excesses of judicial
monitoring threaten to surface with particular force given that the model plays
a central role in courts with less conventionally sympathetically received
defendants. There is even a risk that the monitoring courts will become
partially insulated from conventional adversarial advocacy because they are
specialized anti-formalist, team-oriented courts, and judicial monitoring will
serve as a vehicle for enhanced punitiveness for unpopular classes of
defendants: those charged with domestic violence or sex offenses, for example.

   In addition to the liberty-infringing risks posed by courts operating on a
judicial monitoring model, there remain fundamental questions about the ability
of such courts to reduce recidivism and achieve other desired ends.  n144 Part
of the motivation for court specialization is that judges in a specialized
judicial monitoring court may become experts with regard to the particular
offense at  [*1623]  issue.  n145 But problems arise when judges believe they
possess special expertise about a single best approach to monitoring an issue
when in fact there is profound uncertainty as to how best to handle such
matters. For example, there is preliminary empirical evidence that a judicial
monitoring approach is less effective than might be anticipated in reducing
recidivism in domestic violence cases. A study of the Bronx Misdemeanor Domestic
Violence Court tracked randomly assigned groups of offenders who received
varying combinations of judicial monitoring and batterer's intervention.  n146
The differential rates of recidivism of violent conduct among the groups
(including those who received no judicial monitoring or other intervention) were
not statistically significant.  n147 This result suggests that the routine
judicial monitoring interventions of the domestic violence court--batterer's
intervention and court monitoring--may have limited success in reducing the
incidence of domestic violence.  n148 So while in at least one jurisdiction
domestic violence recidivism remained unchanged, substantial resources were
devoted to a judicial monitoring regime that threatens to significantly
transform the role of the judge with other uncertain and potentially undesirable
effects.  n149

   What is more, in the reentry context at least, a judicial monitoring model
has been associated with substantial increases in reincarceration for technical
violations. A study of the Harlem Parole Reentry Court's initial judicial
monitoring program found that "[t]echnical revocations occurred more frequently
for Reentry Court participants than comparison parolees" for all three years of
the study--an effect the Court's researchers ascribe to a "supervision effect"
n150 (that is, increased discovery of punishable violations produced by
increased supervision). Thus, the Harlem Parole Reentry Court study reflects
that a judicial monitoring approach threatens to increase incarceration for
technical  [*1624]  violations, such as missed curfews or other failures to
conform with the court's monitoring orders.  n151

   These findings are consistent with the best available evidence regarding
"intensive supervision programs" (ISP) during an earlier period of
experimentation with intensive criminal surveillance. Monitoring aimed at
deterrence, when uncoupled from a substantial rehabilitative component, tends
strongly to expand incarceration with little in the way of countervailing
benefits. According to Stanford criminologist Joan Petersilia, who is among the
country's leading experts on intermediate sanctions, the:


     [E]mpirical evidence regarding intermediate sanctions is decisive:
     Without a rehabilitation component, reductions in recidivism are
     elusive. In sum . . . programs were seldom used for prison diversion
     but rather to increase accountability and supervision of serious
     offenders on probation. In addition, programs did not reduce new
     crimes, but instead increased the discovery of technical violations
     and ultimately increased incarceration rates and system costs.  n152

   The ineffectiveness of judicial monitoring may be further aggravated if
judicial monitoring negatively influences defendants' perceptions of legitimacy
of the courts. Diminished perceptions of procedural fairness on the part of
defendants in judicial monitoring courts may actually undermine compliance with
court orders by fostering resentment and exacerbating recidivism.  n153

   So as with the therapeutic jurisprudence model, on the judicial monitoring
model the role of the judge expands, potentially dramatically beyond its
traditional bounds. Surveillance increases. Procedural protections are curtailed
to enable judicial monitoring. And there is no overriding commitment to avoid
incarceration in the instance of discovery of technical violations. As a
consequence, increased periods of at least short-term incarceration threaten to
follow, even if only as a product of technical violations, and the reach of the
criminal  [*1625]  law threatens to radically expand.  n154 Monitoring that is
not merely extending surveillance for its own sake must attend to what forms of
surveillance actually promote socially desirable outcomes by eliminating crime
and reducing incarceration. This is, in significant part, the ambition of a
decarceration model, to which we will turn after exploring the order maintenance
model--the final criminal law reformist model commonly at work in specialized
criminal courts.

   C. ORDER MAINTENANCE MODEL

   The third widely occurring criminal law reformist model operative in
specialized criminal courts seeks to advance order maintenance by convening
local tribunals devoted to prosecutions of relatively minor quality-of-life
crimes. Although the general goal of specialized criminal courts was to address
the impacted and poor quality of conventional criminal law administration by
shifting cases out of conventional courts into specialized courts, in the view
of some advocates, "in many cases, the current system works just fine" such as
in handling "murders, rapes, and robberies;" they believed that alternatives for
prosecution of more serious offenses would be inappropriate.  n155 Consequently,
efforts focused on minor crimes--"prostitution, low-level drug possession, and
disorderly conduct"--that conventional criminal courts were otherwise inclined
to ignore.  n156

   The theoretical framework underlying the order maintenance model is largely
derived from the broken windows approach to policing. The broken windows, or
order maintenance, hypothesis maintains that minor physical and social
disorder--turnstile jumping, marijuana use, public drinking--if not addressed,
contributes to more serious crime.  n157 A specialized order maintenance
criminal court responds to public order violations by initially assigning
intermediate  [*1626]  sanctions such as community service. It is hoped that
imposition of these sanctions, in turn, will improve perceptions of the law's
legitimacy and hence social order. The theory, as applied to specialized
criminal courts, holds that, as a consequence of prosecuting public order
offenses, crime overall will decline and, with it, more general reliance on
criminal arrests and incarceration.  n158

   Along these lines, community courts, the quintessential order maintenance
courts, aim to improve social order by providing a venue for the prosecution of
relatively minor quality-of-life offenses occurring in a delimited geographic
area.  n159 Incarceration is imposed only if a defendant is noncompliant with
intermediate sanctions or if his offense is relatively serious. Generally,
misdemeanor defendants are able to opt in to courts operating on an order
maintenance model rather than being mandatorily assigned.  n160

   In addition to community courts, other specialized criminal courts may also
operate on an order maintenance model. For example, drug courts operating on an
order maintenance approach provide a local forum for prosecuting lower-level
drug offenses that would otherwise receive minimal attention in conventional
criminal courts.

   There are three supposed advantages to an order maintenance model of
specialized criminal court administration, all of which fail to withstand close
scrutiny. First, proponents suggest that these courts will increase potential
offenders' perceptions of the criminal law's legitimacy and, hence, will
increase law-abiding behavior overall.  n161 This is thought to be the case
because the courts assign presumably more meaningful non-carceral sanctions.
n162 But order maintenance courts are often perceived as harsher and less
legitimate than conventional courts in their response to public order
violations. Community courts are less inclined to dismiss cases with "time
served" sentences, and where jail time is imposed, it is for longer periods.
n163 Further, community service sentences will not necessarily be perceived as
more legitimate than jail  [*1627]  sentences. One sex worker sentenced at the
Midtown Community Court explained: "Community service is all day--cleaning
toilets and stuffing envelopes . . . ."  n164 Rather than improving perceptions
of legitimacy, routine reliance on community service of this sort as a sanction
may reduce opportunities for paid work in a jurisdiction and cause further
economic hardship for defendants. The onerous requirements of unpaid community
service work coupled with associated fines may even increase pressures to
participate in criminalized markets.

   A second purported advantage of an order maintenance model is that it will
reduce reliance on conventional carceral sentencing, instead introducing more
effective and beneficial intermediate sanctions, like community service. But
when defendants fail to comply with intermediate sanctions, they are often
punished with at least short-term incarceration. Indeed, empirical analyses
establish that increased short-term incarceration is the unintended outcome of
at least some courts operating on an order maintenance model.  n165

   Additionally, in a manner distinct from that of therapeutic courts, order
maintenance courts widen the net of infractions addressed by criminal courts
because they focus primarily on low-level misdemeanor offenses, which otherwise
would receive less attention: disorderly conduct prosecutions are commonplace in
order maintenance courts for pedicab drivers' obstruction of crosswalks or
unlicensed vending of t-shirts or otherwise licit goods.  n166 This net widening
tendency is consistent with the findings of Professors Michael Tonry and Norval
Morris, who demonstrated in their famous study of intermediate sanctions that
"[w]hen an intermediate choice is offered it will tend to be filled more by
those previously treated more leniently than by those previously treated
[*1628]  more severely."  n167 This is not to suggest that intermediate
sanctions are never appropriate but rather that there is a risk of net widening
where such sanctions are made available and order maintenance courts stand to
considerably expand the class of offenses subject to criminal prosecution by
emphasizing offenses that would otherwise be unlikely targets for prosecution.
As a result of this net widening tendency, an order maintenance model threatens
to expand criminal supervision and increase short-term incarceration when
individuals are unable to comply with intermediate sanctions.

   Whether other beneficial effects on local neighborhoods follow from this net
widening criminal law enforcement remains uncertain. According to Portland's
district attorney Mike Schrunk, a proponent of Portland's order maintenance
specialized criminal court, as a prosecutor "[y]ou tend to blow off" turnstile
jumping or petty shoplifting because they are "not as important as rape and
robbery."  n168 Yet, Schrunk justifies emphasis on these minor offenses in order
maintenance courts on the grounds that "what really drives people out of a
neighborhood or makes a neighborhood rot from the inner core is the small, petty
stuff."  n169 But it is not entirely clear why turnstile jumping, unless
absolutely pervasive and reckless, would undermine the quality of life in a
particular neighborhood. Although petty shoplifting is perhaps more harmful to
local businesses, it is not apparent why such offenses must be prosecutorial
priorities in order to obtain a satisfactory level of respect for private
property in targeted neighborhoods. For instance, local business organizations
could instead encourage store owners to adopt store policies that render goods
less readily subject to theft. In fact, the available evidence indicates that
police arrest less than one percent of all shoplifters.  n170 Shoplifters are
most likely to steal products, such as clothing, CDs, and DVDs, which are
"concealable, removable, available, valuable, enjoyable, and disposable."  n171
Placing unremovable security tags on these products and/or storing them in
locked shelving units, along with other store design and stock control measures,
substantially reduce the opportunity to shoplift.  n172 For these reasons, store
owners and the public at large would likely be better served by adopting
environmental and business practices that reduce the incidence of shoplifting
rather than investing large sums of public resources in prosecuting some small
percentage of these offenses (that are so minor as to otherwise command little
prosecutorial attention) in specialized order maintenance courts. Of course,
this alternative approach transfers the costs of addressing petty crime in part
from tax payers to business owners, but the business costs of merchandising and
related policies are not prohibitive and there is  [*1629]  strong reason to
believe they would prove both more effective and less costly overall.  n173

   What's more, although there may be positive effects associated with devoting
attention to disruptive conduct that residents of affected areas care about--for
instance, the prevalence of street prostitution may cause more sexual harassment
of all women and girls--there are also significant potential negative, systemic
consequences generated by bringing more people under criminal supervision than
would otherwise occur. In particular, net widening may cause criminal courts'
dockets to become further impacted. In Denver, Colorado, for example, the number
of drug cases filed in the Denver District Court grew radically after the
introduction of a drug court program dedicated to prosecuting low-level drug
offenses--effectively an order maintenance drug court model--as police and
prosecutors perceived the courts to be capable of handling the sort of minor
offenses that would previously not have been pursued. During 1993, the last full
year before the Denver Drug Court convened, 1,047 drug cases were filed, but
during the second year of the Court's existence, in 1996, there were 3,017
filings. Judge Morris Hoffman of the Denver criminal court reported that the
Denver Drug Court "caused police to make arrests in, and prosecutors to file,
the kinds of ten- and twenty- dollar hand-to-hand drug cases that the system
simply would not have bothered with before."  n174 Ultimately, in large measure
for this reason, Denver abandoned its Drug Court in 2003 and did away with order
maintenance drug law administration.  n175

   Expanding the range of individuals subject to criminal prosecution in order
maintenance courts is not simply a matter of burdening court dockets. Net
widening produces other broader, systemic pressures: when offenders do not
comply with intermediate sanctions administered by order maintenance courts,
they are subject to short-term incarceration. Subsequently, even those offenders
who receive only thirty-day jail sentences often cycle back through the criminal
[*1630]  courts, trapped in a never-ending series of criminal supervisory
sentences, such that these minor law breakers end up "doing life in prison,
thirty days at a time."  n176 This pattern imposes tremendous costs on the
public and often irreparably disrupts the lives of accused minor law breakers
and their families.

   A final benefit noted by supporters of an order maintenance model, and of
community courts in particular, involves the courts' revival of local democratic
participation in criminal law administration. While democracy is not an
unqualified good for criminal law--indeed, democratic processes have often
resulted in later-regretted criminal law and policy outcomes--democratic
excesses could in principle be restrained by confining community participation
to discrete localities in which the members would themselves internalize the
costs of favored policies.  n177 The local democratic potential of community
courts is thought to derive from the involvement of community members in setting
the courts' priorities, the local access to community court judges, and more
general increased accessibility and transparency of the courts. Yet, the actual
democratic potential of order maintenance community courts is unclear given
that, as multiple studies indicate, only a small number of often relatively
wealthy or unusually vocal individuals participate actively in community court
programs.  n178 In fact, there is some evidence that these courts may serve to
advance the interests of a moneyed minority interest group in furthering
gentrification to improve property values.  n179 And while gentrification may be
a positive force in these neighborhoods--engendering improved neighborhood
quality of life and increasing property values--it is nonetheless questionable
whether associated court reform desirably reconstitutes local democratic
practices in criminal law administration. Control of a local criminal law
enforcement agenda by a few relatively powerful outspoken community members
hardly represents a robust form of local democratization of criminal law,
whatever may or may not be the  [*1631]  other advantages of gentrification.
n180

   In summary, the criminal law reformist benefits ascribed to an order
maintenance model are uncertain, and this approach poses a significant risk of
generating otherwise harmful consequences.

   D. DECARCERATION MODEL

   A decarceration model is committed foremost to reducing reliance on
incarceration and to a sociologically and empirically informed framework that
links court participants to local social services and other institutions,
shifting the management of socially disruptive conduct in part from criminal
courts to other sectors. The ultimate aim of a decarceration model, as applied
to specialized criminal courts, is to isolate those crimes for which
conventional criminal law administration may be most fitting, contributing
gradually to the de facto decriminalization of certain categories of conduct and
enabling alternative non-carceral regulatory approaches to a range of social
ills where criminalization remains appropriate. The basic premise underlying a
decarceration model in the specialized courts context is that
overcriminalization and overincarceration are in part structural problems, which
specialized criminal courts may begin to address.

   Because a decarceration model aims to reduce reliance on incarceration while
achieving other social goals, the model endeavors to respond to the forces that
led incarceration rates to rise so precipitously in the first instance and that
cause them to remain so high. The explanations for large-scale incarceration are
various, but there is general agreement that criminal law and policy contributed
significantly to the growth in incarceration.  n181 Expanded sentences for drug
convictions perpetuated a significant portion of the increase in state prisoners
beginning in the late 1980s, and, subsequently, much of that growth has been
attributable to increased penalties for violent crimes, predominantly robbery
and assaults, and "public order" offenses.  n182 As a result, criminal law and
policy changes stand to contribute substantially to decarceration, but one
single policy intervention will be insufficient to bring about any extensive
decrease in imprisonment. Instead, the scholarly consensus suggests that prison
commitments must be reduced and prison release increased and return to prison
after parole failure decreased.  n183 Obstacles to achieving these ends, which I
will touch upon only briefly because they are thoroughly explored elsewhere,
include: the difficulty of legislatively retreating from the "pathological
politics" of  [*1632]  overcriminalization and overincarceration;  n184 the
organizational cultures of police and prosecutors' offices that encourage
vigorous enforcement of existing criminal laws;  n185 fiscal constraints that
limit available funds for social service alternatives to incarceration; reduced
judicial authority under determinant sentencing laws; resistance of interest
group lobbies, such as victims' rights groups and prison guards unions; a
limited role for less politicized expert input in criminal law and
policy-making; and belief in the efficacy or at least unavoidability of
criminalization and incarceration.  n186 A decarceration model may function to
circumvent and begin to reshape some of these barriers.

   Courts operating predominately on a decarceration model circumvent some of
the legislative impediments to changing substantive criminal law by working
cooperatively with prosecutors, police, defense counsel, and elected officials
at the local level to shift cases out of the conventional criminal courts.
Without requiring legislative repeal of particular criminal statutes, these
courts provide a venue for suspending or dropping criminal charges in drug
cases, a range of misdemeanor cases, and, in some instances, even in cases
involving more serious felony charges as well as in a range of matters involving
mentally ill offenders and veterans. A decarceration approach seeks to locate
alternative fora for responding to these matters, and then when the courts have
obtained a certain measure of broad-based support, legislators are able to enact
statutes that legitimize and institutionalize the decarceration regime. This
method has proven to be more politically viable than seeking directly to
decriminalize particular conduct, and alternative diversionary court approaches
have garnered considerable public support.  n187

   In their day-to-day operations on a decarceration model, courts act as
diversionary clearinghouses for social service resources, ensuring the
assignment of individual defendants to those resources. Careful empirical
monitoring tracks on an ongoing basis court outcomes to ensure that
incarceration is actually reduced  [*1633]  and to ascertain the effect of
various alternative sanctions and services on participants and other relevant
variables.  n188

   At least in some jurisdictions, courts adopting a decarceration model assume
jurisdiction over those charged with, or convicted of, more serious felony
offenses.  n189 This is critical to reducing reliance on incarceration and
avoiding net widening because many nonviolent misdemeanor offenses are already
dealt with through non-carceral sentences in the conventional courts.  n190 To
the extent courts adopting a decarceration approach address accused offenders
who might otherwise receive probationary sentences, the diversionary programming
orders issued may make it less, rather than more, likely that defendants will be
subject to incarceration in the future by facilitating opportunities for
law-abiding livelihoods.

   The theoretical framework that informs the decarceration model focuses on
deploying social structures separate from criminal law administrative
components--such as local neighborhood networks, business organizations, and
mental health, public health, job training, and other social services--to reduce
criminal offending and to foster socially constructive citizenship behaviors.
The foundational idea is that social institutions outside the criminal law
context are critical to the maintenance of social order and to organizing
informal surveillance. Correspondingly, a shift away from current carceral
practices will be enabled by bolstering opportunities for social integration and
institutional involvement, particularly for those persons with otherwise limited
access to such conventional social institutions.  n191

   There is wide-ranging empirical and theoretical support for this structural
[*1634]  approach. One interesting early contribution comes from the work of
Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck, married co-authors employed at Harvard Law School
from the late 1920s to the 1950s, who conducted a seminal study of the lives of
500 Boston juvenile delinquents.  n192 The Gluecks found that although most of
the cohort ceased committing crime after turning twenty-five, a small minority
persisted in criminal involvement. Decades later Harvard sociologist Robert
Sampson and criminologist John Laub reexamined the Gluecks' data to determine if
there were any criteria distinguishable from the early lives and criminal
offending of those men who went on to become persistently criminally involved
over the course of their lives.  n193 Sampson and Laub could not identify any
factors present during childhood or adolescence that differentiated those young
men who would pose a continuing menace and those who would desist from criminal
activity following adolescence.  n194 There were, however, "turning points" in
the men's lives--obtaining and maintaining employment and establishing contacts
with conventional institutions and groups--that distinguished those who
continued to commit crime from those that did not.  n195 Further, men who had
been incarcerated in prison were substantially more likely to continue to
[*1635]  offend than men who served only local jail time or probation.  n196
These factors--rather than personality characteristics, early offense
characteristics, childhood experiences, or other factors--appeared to
differentiate the perpetual offenders from those that went on to lead relatively
law-abiding lives.  n197

   Additional support for the hypothesis that social engagement and
institutional involvement, or group-level effects, cause reduced criminal
offending derives from a significant body of further studies linking structural
context and the prevalence of effective social organizations with decreased
interpersonal violence and neighborhood disorder.  n198 As important, this
theory accords with known social facts about the world: social
institutions--employers, community organizations, families--convey social
expectations and informally surveil those who participate in them. In a
neighborhood where these institutions are functioning effectively, people tend
to be discouraged and inhibited from engaging in criminalized pursuits, and they
will tend to have access to social supports in the event they find themselves
struggling with addiction or other personal challenges.  n199

   Nevertheless, it is important to acknowledge that social institutional
engagement will not serve to dissuade all persons from criminal conduct, and
some conventional social institutions may even be criminogenic.  n200 Indeed,
employed persons operating in firmly established institutional contexts
perpetrate fraud, embezzle funds, and harm others.  n201 But conventional
institutional engagement provides some significant constraint on particular
sorts of criminal offending  [*1636]  and lacks the criminogenic and other
harmful characteristics associated with prison or jail.

   On a decarceration model, then, given the severe harms associated with
large-scale incarceration and the compelling evidence that social institutional
engagement may address certain commonly criminally prosecuted forms of socially
disruptive conduct more effectively than incarceration, non-carceral sentencing
is preferred. The only circumstances under which a carceral sentence would be
imposed in a specialized criminal court adopting a pure decarceration model
would be where there is substantial reason to believe incarceration is necessary
to protect public safety or is otherwise necessary in the interests of justice.
And to the extent there is doubt as to this determination, on a pure
decarceration model that doubt would be resolved in favor of non-carceral
sentencing unless and until incarceration becomes necessary.  n202 In such
instances--for example, in cases of serious violent crime where the defendant is
adjudged mentally well and that individual's prior record and most recent
criminal conduct suggests a serious ongoing risk to public safety--it is
unlikely a defendant would be referred to a specialized diversionary court in
the first place. Were that to occur, however, the case would be referred back to
the conventional court. Though these determinations are inevitably complicated
and involve assessment of uncertain risks, serious violent and dangerous
defendants who would continue to pose a grave threat--even if subject to an
alternative socially integrative sentencing regime of mental health treatment,
job placement, and social service reporting--are a substantially smaller
demographic than that of the current population incarcerated in the United
States.  n203

   A decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration operates
with reference to this framework, seeking to facilitate greater non-carceral
social institutional integration of persons accused of an array of criminal
offenses. But apart from this commitment to attempting to reduce criminal
involvement by improving access to other social institutions, a decarceration
model is untethered from any highly specified jurisprudential or institutional
content. Its sole unifying feature is that of closely empirically monitored
[*1637]  experimentation with criminal law administrative alternatives so as to
reduce reliance on incarceration consistent with maintenance of public safety
and to forge a more sociologically and empirically oriented criminal justice
framework.

   Courts adopting a pure decarceration approach would reject the court-based
therapeutic methods of certain specialized criminal courts and the commitment to
judicial monitoring as a scalable manner of deterring criminal conduct. A focus
on order maintenance is abandoned too on a decarceration model, along with the
associated commitment to broken windows policing. The purpose of a decarceration
approach--more conducive to adoption by conventional courts than reformist
approaches that entail providing therapy in a courtroom context or transforming
judges into probation officers, though certainly not typical of traditionally
conceived courts--is to oversee the adequate provision of services to the class
of defendants referred to those services and appearing before the diversionary
courts, predominately by monitoring the service providers. This is a role
somewhat familiar to courts from the structural reform litigation context.  n204

   Critically, courts adopting a decarceration model are experimentalist
institutions that are open to revision in light of ongoing empirical
feedback--they are unfinished, self-correcting, reformist organizations. The
aspiration of a decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration
is to bring about criminal law reform incrementally, revising policies in
response to input from defendants, judges, prosecutors, public defenders, and
empirical monitoring entities.  n205 In this sense, a decarceration model is
decidedly unfinished, promising gradual reform rather than a bold new program
fully specified in advance.  n206

   A further advantage of a decarceration model is that it works to reduce
reliance on incarceration while closely attending to the particular needs and
[*1638]  risks associated with specific populations of defendants. The hope is
that this will free up resources currently allocated to criminal law
administration and make them available for other sectors better suited to
addressing the relevant underlying problems. This may help to negotiate (if not
to entirely avoid) the decarceration trap that Professors Robert Weisberg and
Joan Petersilia have cautioned against: the "grave risk of backfire if advocates
attempt to reduce mass incarceration simply for the sake of reduction rather
than coupling advocacy with a full consideration of the causes of recidivism."
n207 Because, as Weisberg and Petersilia warn, "even if small increases in crime
by released prisoners . . . are not statistically meaningful, they may reignite
the political demagoguery that contributed to mass incarceration in the first
place."  n208 A decarceration model functions in an incrementalist fashion to
reduce reliance on incarceration by experimenting with alternatives closely
tailored to the needs of populations currently subject to criminal supervision
while attending to the causes of recidivism and creating a record of
demonstrated positive results.

   A decarceration model also promises to attend to the risk of
"transinstitutionalization," which Professor Bernard Harcourt has identified
with regard to mentally ill incarcerated persons.  n209
Transinstitutionalization refers to the disastrous experience encountered during
the earlier attempt to deinstitutionalize persons living in mental hospitals
without accounting in any meaningful way for their integration elsewhere.
Following the deinstitutionalization of hospitals for the mentally ill in the
1960s and 1970s, many persons released from mental institutions either became
homeless or were later reinstitutionalized in prisons and jails.  n210 A
decarceration model works to avoid this outcome of transferring persons from one
total carceral institution (prison or jail) to another total institution (for
example, a psychiatric hospital) by collaborating closely with, monitoring, and
shifting resources to a continuum of networked though independent and mostly
nonresidential service providers that address housing, mental health, medical,
and employment needs of low-income persons in a given delimited geographic area.
n211

   It is imperative to underscore, though, that in diverting certain categories
of cases and defendants to sectors outside the criminal law administrative
context, a decarceration approach should be understood as a partial strategy for
decarceration, not necessarily as a permanent criminal law administrative
fixture nor as a comprehensive solution to the problems of overcriminalization
and overincarceration.  [*1639]  Rather, the decarceration model's more modest
goal is to shift the management of social disorder, where possible, from
criminal courts, probation or parole offices, jails, and prisons to a range of
other institutions. Invariably, violent and otherwise criminal conduct will
continue to intrude upon people's lives, and conventional criminal law
administration will play a role, however imperfect, in responding to that
conduct. A decarceration model promises to minimize such conduct, focus
conventional criminal law resources where they seem most plainly called for, and
begin to respond to the problems of overcriminalization and overincarceration by
enlisting other social institutions more fully in managing social disorder.
Documented successful diversion of some cases may form the basis for subsequent
decriminalization of certain conduct (for instance of particular drug offenses),
while other offenses may entail harm that warrants a retained norm of
criminalization (particularly where theft or violence is involved) even as
successful diversion may support substantially reduced reliance on incarceration
for that category of offense or offender.

   The remainder of this section will explore how different existing specialized
criminal courts are functioning or could and should function on a decarceration
model. The criminal law reformist possibilities of a decarceration model are
further explored in Part III. Objections to a specialized criminal law reform
strategy more generally are considered in Part IV.

   Although many mental health courts adopt some combination of a therapeutic
jurisprudence and judicial monitoring approach, mental health courts may also
embrace a decarceration model, shifting resources for mentally ill persons from
the criminal courts, jails, and prisons to other sectors. Mental health courts
operating on a decarceration model seek to remove mentally ill individuals from
conventional criminal processing to a forum where the focus is on addressing
holistically relevant needs so as to prevent subsequent criminal offending.

   There is tremendous potential to accomplish significant decarceration by
addressing mentally ill individuals' socially disruptive conduct outside the
context of conventional criminal law administration. Roughly 500,000 mentally
ill people are incarcerated in prisons and jails in the United States.  n212
Among the most common mental illnesses U.S. prisoners suffer are schizophrenia
and bipolar disorder, both of which are amenable in many cases to effective
psychiatric intervention.  n213

    [*1640]  For the mentally ill, incarceration is frequently brutal and
devastating and conditions of confinement routinely worsen rather than improve
the relevant mental illnesses and associated disorderly conduct.  n214 As the
U.S. Supreme Court explained in Brown v. Plata: In California, "[b]ecause of a
shortage of treatment beds, suicidal inmates may be held for prolonged periods
in telephone-booth sized cages without toilets."  n215 The Court included this
image of the holding cages used for mentally ill individuals in California
prisons  n216:

 See Image

    [*1641]  The majority opinion in Plata continued:


     A psychiatric expert reported observing an inmate who had been held in
     such a cage for nearly 24 hours, standing in a pool of his own urine,
     unresponsive and nearly catatonic. Prison officials explained they had
     "no place to put him."  n217


The brutality of these conditions entailed by incarcerating large numbers of
mentally ill individuals, often in response to relatively minor offending
criminal conduct, is sufficiently apparent as to require little further
explication.

   By contrast, on a decarceration model, mental health court teams--composed of
a judge, prosecutor, defense counsel, social worker, and psychologist--work to
identify mentally ill individuals who may be removed from conventional criminal
carceral sentencing to alternative programming without excessive risk to public
safety, leading Professor Shauhin Talesh to refer to mental health courts
generally as "dynamic risk managers."  n218 Then, mental health court teams work
to locate sustainable psychiatric treatment, sustainable housing arrangements,
and meaningful activity of some sort for participants to undertake.  n219 Mental
health courts operating on a decarceration model monitor provision of mental
health treatment and other services to defendants.  n220 The service providers
themselves have an informal surveiling function, and the courts only need to
intervene to conduct a revocation hearing or to increase service levels or
monitoring if a defendant reveals himself or herself to pose a substantial
danger to others.  n221 The courts use outside referrals to apply a combination
of risk assessment tools to develop programmatic interventions, including
actuarial models to identify risk factors and more individualized  [*1642]
clinical assessment.  n222 Perfect compliance with treatment and other orders is
not expected, and incarceration is used only as a last resort when all other
lenient policies relating to noncompliance have failed.  n223 There is evidence
that diversionary mental health courts may reduce reliance on incarceration in
managing mentally ill persons, reduce reliance on in-patient psychiatric
treatment, and improve access to housing for program participants.  n224

   Veterans courts operating on a decarceration model would similarly obtain
local cooperation to manage the cases of referred veterans through non-carceral
sentencing, such as through referral to Veterans Affairs programs as in the case
of Eifert recounted in this Article's introduction.  n225 If community courts
are to function on a decarceration model, they would need to limit their
jurisdiction to matters in which defendants would otherwise likely be subject to
incarceration.  n226

   Drug courts may function on a decarceration model, accomplishing some measure
of de facto decriminalization by sentencing drug-involved defendants to
treatment and non-revocable or revocation-limited probation. When state
legislatures pass drug court acts or related legislation authorizing this
non-carceral drug court approach, the effect is to bypass political barriers to
more explicit decriminalization and to lend democratic legitimacy to drug
courts'  [*1643]  efforts.  n227

   Reentry courts may also operate on a decarceration model. Parole or probation
violators constitute approximately 50-65% of people admitted to state prison,
and about half of these individuals are re-incarcerated for technical
violations.  n228 Reentry courts may facilitate access to social services and
employment and rely on those referral sources for notification of extremely
concerning noncompliance but otherwise sharply limit reincarceration for
technical violations.  n229

   Although most domestic violence courts function on a judicial monitoring
model of limited effectiveness and with substantial associated
rights-eviscerating risks, domestic violence courts could shift to a
decarceration model for certain cases arising from relatively less serious and
less violent incidents. Alternative sentences could still be onerous and
require, among other conditions, considerable financial support of and physical
separation from the complainant. These provisions might better serve the
interests of the complainant spouse than incarceration for short periods of a
spouse who is the primary source of financial support for the family.  n230
Courts could also work to facilitate services for complainants--as do many
domestic violence courts currently--particularly because the availability of
alternative living arrangements, employment opportunities, or vocational or
educational training may empower survivors of domestic violence to leave or
transform abusive relationships and, hence, in the long-run reduce reoffending,
re-arrests, and reincarceration. Sex offense courts are generally conceptualized
primarily on a judicial monitoring model but could also shift to a decarceration
model by identifying those individuals whose convictions are such that carceral
sentencing seems unnecessary (for instance, individuals convicted on the basis
of public urination, certain other forms of indecent exposure, or consensual sex
with a person not significantly younger than the accused).  n231

    [*1644]  In all of these separate specialized criminal court contexts, a
decarceration model does not purport to be capable of solving the underlying
problems. Instead, a decarceration model frees up resources that might be
allocated to sectors better able to address relevant problems, even if the
problems ultimately remain in some measure intractable, at least without
further-reaching intervention. A decarceration model is minimalist in its
mission as compared to competing criminal law reformist models, at least with
regard to the degree of intervention taking place in the court itself. Empirical
monitoring may establish the basis for transferring this framework outside the
specialized courts context, facilitating farther-reaching transformative
criminal law reform. Gradually, in an incremental experimentalist fashion, a
decarceration model may begin to reform criminal law more broadly by working to
address the compound problem of the criminal law's relationship to social-order
maintenance and the social conditions associated with targeted conduct, moving
the regulation of certain matters outside criminal law administration to other
sectors.

   In summary, the upshot of the Article's analysis to this point is that if
specialized criminal courts aim to begin to reduce harshness and brutality in
criminal law administration and to limit reliance on criminal supervision and
incarceration while addressing socially disruptive conduct, they should organize
themselves predominantly on a diversionary, minimalist, experimental,
sociologically oriented decarceration model. The therapeutic, judicial
monitoring, and order maintenance models represent distinct criminal law
reformist strategies that threaten to exacerbate rather than unwind existing
problems in criminal law administration because they each possess inherent
features that tend to increase reliance on criminal supervision and that may
even expand incarceration--radically transforming the judicial role and diluting
procedural protections more significantly than on a decarceration model, without
generating other demonstrated desirable outcomes.

   The following Part will explore in more detail three criminal law reform
strategies that courts adopting a decarceration model may set in motion. Part IV
will address anticipated objections.

   III. POSSIBILITIES OF A DECARCERATION MODEL

   Much of the reformist promise of a decarceration model lies in the associated
courts' ability to begin to redirect criminal law administration more generally
through three primary strategies: (1) cognitive reframing; (2) institutional
reinvention; and (3) systemic change. The following subsections attend to each
of these three strategies in turn.

   A. COGNITIVE REFRAMING

   Specialized criminal courts adopting a decarceration model hold the potential
to reframe shared understandings of criminalized conduct, developing alternative
approaches to an array of matters currently managed in large part through
[*1645]  criminal supervision and incarceration. Reframing common conceptions of
crime and punishment is a critical component of any decarceration strategy
because to shift the management of social order from criminal law administration
to other institutions will require changed public understandings of when
incarceration is called for and what viable alternatives might entail.

   Before turning to the mechanisms by which courts adopting a decarceration
model may reframe the criminal law's response to various forms of criminally
charged conduct, a brief detour into the literature on framing is in order.
Framing is a process explored widely in psychological,  n232 political science,
n233 sociological,  n234 and legal scholarship,  n235 so I will only quickly
define the dimensions of framing relevant for present purposes.

   In short, a "frame" is a mental structure through which we understand the
world and which serves to organize perception.  n236 Frames are generated
through interactive social processes  n237 and they shape how people construct
meaning, identify problems, and determine to resolve those problems, often
operating unconsciously to inform individual and collective decision making.
n238 How a particular problem or choice is framed significantly influences the
way in which people proceed to address the situation.  n239 For example, a
public-health framing of the problem of drug use might suggest drug treatment as
a preferred solution; a moralistic framing of drug use as an unethical failure
of will might suggest a criminally punitive response. Likewise, a mental health
framing of veterans' or mentally ill persons' antisocial conduct might suggest a
coordinated reaction of clinical treatment and social service provision, whereas
a framing of such persons as dangerous and unmanageable criminals likely would
suggest a carceral response.

   Despite the powerful influence exerted by existing frames, reframing occurs
routinely, contributing to shifting social understandings. In effect, reframing
reorganizes intuitions and understanding, generating different frames, often by
introducing alternative ways of speaking about and approaching (and regulating)
the dimension of the world in question.  n240

    [*1646]  Social psychologist John M. Darley explains one way in which
intuitions may change as abstract reasoning overrides less reflective judgment.
n241 Cognitive psychologists refer to this as dual processing: "One process,
produced rapidly, takes place non-optionally . . . . The second set of processes
involves abstract reasoning areas of the brain, and is not always triggered into
action. . . . [W]hen this reasoning system is activated, it sometimes overrides
intuitions."  n242 Over time, cognitive frames may shift through the
contestation, embrace, and repetition of competing frames in different social
and cultural contexts.

   In the criminal law context, frames are routinely invoked in ways that shape
how people imagine particular forms of disfavored conduct ought to be managed.
n243 In a provocative article on what he called "Interpretive Construction in
the Substantive Criminal Law," Mark Kelman revealed how certain frames shape
whether the conduct of a criminally accused person is understood as morally
blameworthy, as an appropriate subject of criminal punishment, or as excusable.
n244 Though Kelman did not himself rely on the conceptual apparatus of cognitive
framing, his analysis offered an account of how framing occurs in the context of
criminal law administration through the selection of time frames (narrow or
broad) and intentionalist versus determinist interpretations of behavior, among
other interpretive schemes.  n245 Narrow versus broad time framing influences
perceptions of the degree of culpability of a defendant, enabling or undermining
the view of that defendant as morally responsible (on an intentionalist account)
or as significantly constrained and, hence, less responsible in some relevant
respect (a determinist interpretation).  n246

   A decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration offers an
alternative perspective on the necessity of incarceration; on structural,
neighbor-hood-level mechanisms that may inhibit crime; as well as on
time-framing, moral responsibility, and blaming practices in criminal law. And
it asserts these alternative frames in local, state, and national contexts. The
process by which  [*1647]  courts adopting a decarceration model reframe
understandings of particular categories of crime and offenders begins with a
dialogue between architects of specialized criminal courts, prosecutors, public
defenders, and defendants.  n247 Collectively, these actors forge a different
account of the causes and consequences of certain criminal offenses. For
example, veterans courts and mental health courts have made considerable headway
in advancing a regime of treatment rather than incarceration in response to
socially disruptive conduct on the part of veterans and mentally ill persons;
other specialized criminal courts have introduced with substantial success a
revised approach to drug offenses involving treatment and irrevocable or rarely
revocable probation. Over time, this understanding is embraced, at least to some
extent, by those who interact with the specialized criminal court itself and by
other relevant criminal law administrative actors: police, prosecutors, defense
counsel, and judges. These alternative frames are diffused through the court to
the various individuals that come into contact with the court. Eventually, the
reconfigured framework may be taken up by actors outside the specialized court.
The publication and dissemination of empirical analyses of court outcomes may
allow for broader circulation of a proposed framework for reform.

   Consider again the veterans courts program in Okemos, Michigan and the case
of Staff Sgt. Brad Eifert introduced in this Article's introduction. Eifert
served in Iraq and lives in Okemos, which is one of the approximately eighty
jurisdictions in the United States with a veterans court. After returning from
Iraq, Eifert struggled with depression, alcohol, and his own anger until he took
a gun and initiated a confrontation with the police of a kind sometimes referred
to as "suicide by cop."  n248 Although he faced charges carrying multiple
potential life sentences, he was ultimately permitted to participate in a
diversionary court program that may result in a dismissal of all charges.  n249

   The procedures whereby Eifert came to be admitted to the diversionary program
reflect the reframing processes potentially introduced through a specialized
criminal court adopting a decarceration approach. In the first instance, to
establish a veterans court, judges and other advocates introduce a different
framing of responsibility for the criminal conduct in question. In the veterans
court context, this entails reframing veterans' socially disruptive acts as, to
some extent, a shared responsibility occasioned by the fact that these
individuals have been sent by elected officials into harm's way, resulting in
their inability to function in a socially acceptable manner. The offending
behavior in question is also reframed as something other than a deliberately
criminal transgression, warranting blame and carceral punishment. Instead,
veterans' socially disruptive conduct is recharacterized as a manifestation, in
part, of what Buffalo, New York's Veterans Court Judge Robert T. Russell has
called the  [*1648]  "invisible wounds of war."  n250 Judge Russell said of his
Veterans Court in an interview with the New York Times: "I don't interpret it as
excusing behavior, but as addressing what the behavior is."  n251 In galvanizing
support to create veterans court programs, the courts' architects invoke
repeatedly this set of contending frames, differently characterizing the
defendants and offending conduct to be addressed by the court, both at the local
level and also on a state and national stage through media and other public
engagements.

   Then, when the court is operational, the process of moving particular
defendants into that court itself engages and reframes the way different key
actors in the local criminal process understand the problems at hand. For Eifert
to be admitted to the diversionary program, the judge, defense counsel,
prosecutors, and police all had to agree on the transfer. The judge had to
consider whether Eifert could be admitted given that his case involved the use
of a firearm and threat of injury to police officers. Defense counsel advocated
for Eifert's admission and ultimately convinced the judge. Initially, though,
the prosecutor's office "was not going to play at all," according to Eifert's
counsel. But eventually, as Eifert's lawyer introduced a differently framed
interpretation of the case--calling attention to the severity of Eifert's
post-traumatic stress disorder and his decision not to harm the officers when,
as a trained marksman, he could have done so--the prosecution adjusted its
position. Then, the assistant prosecutor had to engage the police officers who
had been in the woods that night when Eifert was firing shots. The case had been
debated in local news venues with some arguing that Eifert should receive a life
sentence and others urging a more lenient response. In the end, the officers
were persuaded to agree to Eifert's admission to the veterans court and in
public comment, one officer, who stated he feared for his life that night,
concluded: "I don't think any of us would not want him to get treatment . . . .
There's a difference between somebody who's a criminal and someone who's just in
a perfect storm of things going wrong."  n252

   The line between those two figures--the criminal and the person "in a perfect
storm of things going wrong"--may not in fact be clear at all in the vast
majority of criminal cases, but veterans courts reintroduce a determinist frame,
a collectivist frame, and a broader time frame for a range of conduct in ways
that shift public understandings of a significant group of defendants, veterans,
and a variety of criminalized conduct. Ongoing media attention to specialized
criminal courts carries the reframed understandings in particular jurisdictions,
such as in Okemos, Michigan where Eifert's case unfolded, to a broader national
audience.

   Judges operating in specialized criminal courts understand that they are
engaged in a strategic undertaking focused in large part on shifting public
perceptions about the appropriate scope of criminal law and punishment. As
[*1649]  Judge Ginger Lerner-Wren of the Broward County Mental Health Court
relayed in comments excerpted in this Article's introduction: "We view the
Mental Health Court as a 'strategy' to bring fairness to the administration of
justice for persons being arrested on minor offenses who suffer from major
mental disability."  n253 This strategy of reframing particular defendants and
criminalized behaviors as suited for alternative forms of social response apart
from the criminal law is a crucial part of the work of a veterans or mental
health court and of a decarceration approach more generally.

   It is important to note, however, that this strategy is not without important
limits: the success of reframing and of admission to the programs depends on the
zealous advocacy of defense counsel and on the openness of the judge and
prosecutor. While measures could (and perhaps should) be taken to limit
prosecutorial discretion in the referral process, the cooperation of prosecutors
contributes to the reframing work in which the court is engaged.

   In any case, despite its limits, through this strategy specialized criminal
courts have generated some significant reconceptualization of how to approach
particular categories of offenses and offenders. These changes generally begin
with judges and lawyers working within the courts. Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman
of the New York Court of Appeals, for instance, has suggested that: "When it
comes to non-violent crime, we have changed how judges and lawyers measure
success--no longer by the number of dispositions, convictions, or acquittals but
by whether we are able to break the cycle of addiction and crime and improve
public safety."  n254 Judge Clinton Deveaux reports that, although his judicial
colleagues used to deride his specialized criminal court work as that of a
"social worker on the bench," in due course other judges started to refer cases
to his court and reported adopting some similar approaches in their own
conventional courts, acknowledging that "this is the only way to deal with this
stuff if you're going to actually stop the recidivism and actually solve some of
the problems that are bringing these people to the court."  n255 Transfer of
reframed conceptions also is likely to occur through the transfer of judges from
the specialized criminal court back to the conventional court. When judges move
between a specialized criminal court and a conventional court, many report that
they continue to apply in part the approach developed in the alternative court
context to the extent allowable.  n256

    [*1650]  Beyond the level of reshaping the perspectives of individual court
personnel, judges and other institutional actors frequently adapt the courtroom
to function as public theatre and publicize through the media the aspirations of
their respective courts. As a consequence, large numbers of cases are not
necessarily required for the courts to shift understandings on a broader scale.
n257 This addresses one challenge for specialized criminal courts: namely, that
they cannot reasonably be brought to scale. Active engagement of judges,
lawyers, and social scientists involved with diversionary courts in reframing
certain of the criminal law problems at stake in the courts allows the courts
broader reach than that provided by the relatively limited number of cases they
are able to process at any given time.

   Additionally, through empirical monitoring of the courts, a decarceration
model helps determine whether incarceration is necessary or advisable for
certain kinds of crimes and defendants, balancing important concerns about
public safety and criminal law reform goals. Many administrators of specialized
criminal courts, often alongside external empirical monitoring entities, closely
track the outcomes regarding recidivism and other variables for participants in
non-carceral programming relative to similarly situated persons subject to
conventional criminal supervision and/or incarceration. If a decarceration
approach is able to demonstrate that reliance on incarceration can be diminished
without imperiling public safety, this approach may reframe public attitudes
regarding incarceration more broadly--providing the basis for a large-scale
reasoned rethinking of prison- and jail-based social order maintenance.  n258

   The process of disseminating empirical analyses is well underway with drug
courts. In a quasi-experimental study released in June 2011, a team of social
scientists working with the Urban Institute and funded by the U.S. Department of
Justice examined the outcomes regarding criminal recidivism and drug relapse for
participants in twenty-three drug courts and six comparison sites.  n259 Using a
combination of statistical techniques to correct for potential selection bias,
attrition bias, and clustering of outcomes within sites, the study's authors
found that drug courts significantly reduce criminal recidivism and drug use
after eighteen months as compared to the outcomes for similar individuals in the
comparison sites.  n260 In July 2011, the Senate Judiciary Committee convened
hearings regarding this and related studies to explore expanded funding for
specialized criminal courts relying on alternatives to incarceration, with
specific  [*1651]  emphasis on drug courts and veterans courts.  n261 In time,
empirical analyses of this sort may facilitate alternative framings that would
enable legislative reforms markedly scaling back sentence lengths across the
board.

   Though specialized criminal courts have generally started with jurisdiction
only over a very limited class of offenders or offenses, typically the courts'
authority expands and an increasing range of cases come before the courts. For
example, drug courts began by accepting drug possession cases but over time have
expanded to include individuals arrested for forgery, burglary, and other crimes
believed to be associated with drug addiction.  n262 This occurs in part due to
the cognitive reframing that the courts enable: drug crime is characterized to
include not only narcotics possession and sales offenses but also conduct
motivated by drug addiction.

   Once diversionary specialized criminal courts have become an established
alternative means of addressing drug offenses and the socially disruptive
conduct of veterans or the mentally ill, broader shifts in social understanding
may be set in motion. The diversionary alternatives introduce a new
institutional framework for managing the problems in question. The existence of
these programs normalizes the alternative responses. And the availability of a
parallel diversionary alternative for a significant class of cases makes
available a set of reasons why diversion may be preferable in other contexts--a
potentially transposable "reasoned override" to the automatic invocation of
conventional criminal law frameworks.  n263 The contagion of the diversionary
approach is confirmed by the experience of the past decade during which time
diversionary courts have rapidly multiplied in numerous areas and expanded to
cover more serious offenses.

   The alternative framings of crime and punishment emerging through the work of
specialized criminal courts, particularly those adopting a diversionary
decarceration approach, hold the promise to shift considerably and broadly
public conceptions of various problems currently managed through criminal
prosecution and incarceration.

   B. INSTITUTIONAL REINVENTION

   Along with reframing social understandings of crime and punishment, a
decarceration model may also reshape criminal law administrative institutions by
introducing additional tasks for judges, defense counsel, and prosecutors.
Further, a decarceration model incorporates novel players into specialized
criminal courts' work, in part by facilitating partnerships with local
organizations and social service providers.  n264

    [*1652]  The roles of the judge and the parties on a decarceration model are
all in flux, but, unlike on the therapeutic jurisprudence or judicial monitoring
models, these role shifts are relatively consistent with preservation of
conventional values respectively associated with these roles. The primary work
of the judge on a decarceration model is to convene the parties and service
providers; to oversee the negotiation of a diversion plan; to monitor
performance of diversion programs; and then to be available to adjudicate
motions for sanctions should major noncompliance become an issue. The judge on a
decarceration model plays a far less active role than on a therapeutic, judicial
monitoring, or order maintenance model, requiring only one or two days of work
per week in the specialized court. The courts' institutional design facilitates
conscientiousness about procedural protections, particularly in sanctions
proceedings, and it aims to make transparent the reasons behind court orders.
n265 On a decarceration model, the judge also often serves as a spokesperson for
a decarceration strategy and for experimental, empirically informed criminal law
administration.  n266

   Defense counsel's role shifts too, such that his or her most critical
function involves negotiating the terms on which a defendant opts into the
diversionary court. Because specialized criminal courts are configured
differently with regard to the consequences of failure in terms of sentence
penalties, informed counsel at this stage is extremely important. Defense
counsel continues to play a role in safeguarding a defendant's procedural rights
and other interests throughout the process, especially when motions for
sanctions arise. Defense counsel may play a critical part as well in ensuring
that the court actually reduces carceral sentencing, as opposed to on a
therapeutic approach where defense counsel may acquiesce in a carceral sentence
for its presumed therapeutic effect, or in conventional courts where much
defense work involves brokering plea deals and rarely actively contesting
evidence, let alone conducting trials.  n267

   The role shift on a decarceration model is perhaps most dramatic for
prosecutors. Embracing a decarceration approach for prosecutors entails that
their offices operate not simply by seeking the toughest charges and sentences
for criminal defendants, but that they work also on strengthening public safety
and advancing justice in a broader context.  n268 Prosecutors on a decarceration
model  [*1653]  focus their conventional prosecutorial resources on more serious
violent or property crimes where conventional criminal proceedings are most
warranted and refer to specialized courts or drop charges in those matters where
non-carceral sentencing is possible. Prosecutors committed to decarceration also
devote their resources in part to enabling alternatives to incarceration. Taking
up in some significant manner a decarceration agenda, the Brooklyn District
Attorney's Office, for example, has pioneered several
alternatives-to-incarceration programs. These initiatives emerged before the
proliferation of specialized criminal courts, suggesting that a decarceration
approach may have broader potential to restructure a prosecutorial agenda beyond
specialized courts.  n269 In 1990, Brooklyn's D.A. Charles "Joe" Hynes
introduced a diversion program that allowed nonviolent drug offenders to enter
substance abuse treatment instead of receiving a conventional criminal sentence.
By the late 1990s, the D.A.'s Office was organizing community group gatherings
across Brooklyn to link individuals on parole or probation to jobs, housing, and
treatment programs.  n270 This work does not require prosecutors to cease
prosecuting cases of serious crime, but it suggests that prosecutors can play an
important part in decarceration strategies by augmenting the prosecutorial
function and organizational mission.

   Beyond reshaping the roles of existing players in criminal courts, a
decarceration model introduces additional players. One notable new player is the
resources coordinator--a position increasingly institutionalized in criminal law
administrative systems more broadly.  n271 Resource coordinators work to link
defendants to services, treatment, and housing, and they work to address other
related cross-sector collaborative efforts of the courts.

   Finally, specialized criminal courts operating on a decarceration model may
work to shift the institutional form and function of the courts themselves. As
it has begun to adopt to a greater extent a decarceration mission, the reentry
court in Harlem, for example, has appropriated the form of the parole revocation
court but has become less court-like, functioning simultaneously as a
clearinghouse for job placement, mental health care, and legal advice, aiming to
change local opportunities for ex-offenders and to facilitate more general
economic development programs in East Harlem.  n272 Over time, as these courts
become resource clearinghouses rather than primarily sites for processing guilty
pleas or  [*1654]  parole revocations, this may work to transform diversionary
courts from criminal courts into different institutions altogether, focusing
conventional criminal law resources on the most serious forms of violent and
property crime and lending support to a range of different local social and
economic development initiatives.

   C. SYSTEMIC CHANGE

   Through both reframed understandings and institutional reinvention, a
decarceration model may enable broader systemic change: altering conceptual
approaches to prevalent social problems, freeing financial resources for other
initiatives, increasing the level of accountability of service providers in
diversionary collaborations, politicizing court actors regarding the limits of
available alternative programming, and transforming the manner in which criminal
law is administered more generally. First, by marshaling support for particular
types of social service interventions, a decarceration model directs attention
and financial resources to public health, mental health, housing, and other
services that might not otherwise be available.  n273 Particularly during times
of fiscal austerity, as resources are cut for mental health and other public
health programs, a decarceration approach may free resources that could be
allocated to treatment initiatives.  n274 As prisons close, additional resources
may be freed for other initiatives.  n275 In this regard, specialized criminal
courts function as a potential vehicle for "justice reinvestment;" as the former
Executive Director of the National Association of Drug Court Professionals,
Karen Freeman-Wilson, explained, "the ultimate idea is to shift the resources
from the departments of correction and other places where that money could be
put to better use."  n276

   These courts may also bring about systemic change by influencing how the
problems confronting criminal courts--for instance, mental illness--are managed
in other parallel institutions, such as in cities' public health and publicly
subsidized housing systems. Monitoring the provision of services in diversionary
programs provides an additional layer of accountability for those sectors.  n277
Through this monitoring, the courts aim to encourage improved performance in
related fields as court administrators advocate, for example, to make sure
"there are enough treatment beds, treatment slots . . . in order to make these
courts  [*1655]  functional."  n278

   As specialized criminal court judges and advocates run up against the limits
of social service providers to accommodate the need for the relevant services,
the effect in many instances may be a politicization of judges and other court
advocates regarding the structural problems afflicting the demographic served by
the court. Part of the reformist potential of a decarceration model, then, is
that it may lead court participants to galvanize broader support for
reallocation of resources to better address these problems. Some mental health
court personnel have begun this process by locating resources for housing
subsidies and by serving as advocates for court participants with potential
landlords.  n279

   It is important to acknowledge, though, that in some, perhaps even in many,
circumstances, a decarceration model may run up against a sense of tragic
futility--and the court and related diversionary programs may be unable to
address adequately the matters at hand, even with more extensive resources for
treatment and other social service alternatives.  n280 After all, simply
improving the employment and life prospects of particular individuals and
shifting resources to institutions that may support those individuals to become
more socially integrated, is unlikely to do a great deal to shift the structures
of opportunity in blighted urban and rural neighborhoods when, fundamentally,
the problems the courts aim to address are deep-seated, systemic problems.  n281
Yet, under such circumstances, the limitations of specialized criminal courts
may facilitate larger-scale legislative reform that support effective
decriminalization of certain offenses, reduced incarceration regarding others,
and reinvestment in under-resourced areas. For instance, the limited capacity of
drug courts in California to address treatment and other needs in that state
helped to facilitate legislative reform along these lines. In 2000, when
California voters passed Proposition 36, the Substance Abuse and Crime
Prevention Act--permitting drug arrestees to receive probation with drug
treatment instead of incarceration--the public was responding in part to
criticism of drug courts that they served too  [*1656]  few drug offenders and
involved too much judicial oversight.  n282 While California's drug courts
provided treatment to approximately 3,000 individuals annually before 2001,
under Proposition 36 approximately 36,000 drug offenders each year were
receiving probation with drug treatment by 2004.  n283 Further, supervision is
delegated from the judge to probation officers and revocation of probation is
only considered under limited specified conditions; "flash incarceration"
(short-term incarceration for technical violations) is not permitted.  n284

   The Utah Drug Offender Reform Act provides another intriguing window on to
the systemic shifts set in motion by the relatively limited capacity of
specialized criminal courts. According to Dan Becker, Utah's State Court
Administrator:


     The focus that drug courts have put on treatment gave rise to a lot of
     interest on the part of the larger criminal justice community in Utah.
     . . . All of the criminal justice agencies got together and worked for
     several years on crafting legislation that's called the Drug Offender
     Reform Act, which provides for screening and assessment for every
     single person charged with a felony where there's a drug offense
     involved. . . . The legislature last year stepped forward and funded
     about half of the cost of implementation; they'll fund the other half
     next year hopefully. . . . And that's a complete shift in public
     policy. . . . I suspect you could trace that back to the roots of drug
     courts putting the emphasis on treatment.  n285

   As court personnel struggle against structural barriers, such as a lack of
adequate public health and mental health services, lack of affordable housing,
and geographically concentrated underemployment, the result may be some measure
of consciousness-raising and potentially responsive legislative change but also
an acute sense of the impossible situation in which many subjects of the
criminal law find themselves. Part of the reformist potential of a decarceration
model is that this experience will lead court participants to work to address
more comprehensively the structural problems at issue and to disseminate more
widely the truth that criminal courts cannot serve as a cure-all for social
[*1657]  insecurity, social risk, and the underlying social problems the courts
routinely confront. Moreover, specialized criminal courts operating on a
decarceration model begin to expose the complexity of the problems at hand and
the unavailability of a complete resolution of that complexity. They can help
all of us to see that the problems that have found their way to criminal courts
are often ones for which there is no ideal solution, even though there are
better, more humane responses or worse, more brutal carceral means of
imperfectly addressing these problems.

   In these various respects--through reframing understandings of criminally
charged conduct, shifting the roles of key systemic players and institutions,
and catalyzing resource reallocation and legislative change--a decarceration
model may begin to bring about substantial transformative shifts in how criminal
law is administered.

   IV. PERILS OF SPECIALIZED CRIMINAL LAW REFORM

   It remains to consider the perils presented by a specialized criminal courts
reform agenda generally--as distinct from the potential risks addressed above
with regard to the more predominant criminal law reformist models at work in
specialized criminal courts. Specialized criminal courts generally pose a number
of significant and concerning risks: excessive reliance on legal frameworks to
address complex social concerns; dilution of the expressive retributive or
deterrent force of criminal law; broadly diminished procedural protections;
inefficiently proliferating specializations; and legitimation of harshness in
conventional courts for less sympathetic, racial minority, or otherwise
stigmatized defendants. This Part will begin to address these risks and the
ability of courts adopting a decarceration model to respond to them.

   A. EXCESSIVE LEGALISM?

   Critics of specialized criminal courts reject the overarching premise that
criminal courts can be relied upon to address complex social problems. Professor
Jane M. Spinak has argued that court-based approaches will be incapable of
managing either the structural problems the specialized criminal courts aim to
address, such as crippling caseloads in conventional criminal courts, or the
difficult social issues the courts seek to handle, such as addiction and social
dislocation.  n286 Specialized criminal courts will be unable to manage the
courts' structural problems, Spinak contends, because those problems are
produced by legislatures and public policies over which the courts exercise
little control. Simply put, so long as police persist in arresting and
prosecutors persist in  [*1658]  prosecuting drug offenders, the volume of drug
offenders in the criminal courts will remain high. Moreover, Spinak maintains,
the societal and personal problems the courts seek to address are multifaceted
and socially entrenched and will be difficult, if not impossible, for courts to
mitigate, absent broader structural shifts. To substantiate these arguments,
Spinak explores the history of the early family courts, which, like contemporary
specialized criminal courts, had problem-oriented ambitions and fell short in
resolving the relevant problems, largely because of the complicated socially
ingrained character of family dysfunction.  n287 Spinak concludes that we "need
to develop resources beyond the court" and focus on "more client-oriented
solutions" rather than therapeutic or court interventions.  n288 In Spinak's
view, though, any conceptual reorientation within the courts toward building
resources beyond the court and developing client-oriented solutions "is not
enough to stem the tide of judicial activism that situates problem solving in
the court itself rather than in the broader structure of how people in need are
served by our society."  n289

   Professor Mae C. Quinn has advanced a related argument against the legalist
orientation of a criminal law reform strategy located in specialized criminal
courts. Quinn's analysis draws on the failure of another earlier Progressive Era
attempt to address a range of social problems through procedurally informal
specialized courts. Quinn provides a fascinating history of how one Progressive
Era female judge, the Honorable Anna Kross, convened specialized courts to
address the problems of domestic violence and juvenile delinquency. But
ultimately, Judge Kross's experiments were disbanded and derided as failures
because they were so expensive that they could never be brought to scale.
Additionally, the "treatment methods" coordinated by the court were unable to
address the broader social issues at hand, and the outsourcing of treatment
tasks resulted in "overreaching and privatization of the judicial system."  n290
The Progressive Era endeavor to address social problems through specialized
courts was dismantled, legal protections for accused persons were expanded, and
observers concluded that, while social work intervention might be helpful to
persons in distress, this would be best achieved outside the context of criminal
law administration. The troubled juvenile courts are the one continuing
institutional component of this Progressive Era legacy. Quinn draws from this
historical experience to suggest that contemporary criminal court reformers
should be much more skeptical than they are about the claimed newness of their
interventions and the capacity of court-coordinated "treatment" to resolve the
targeted  [*1659]  legal systemic or social problems.  n291

   Spinak and Quinn's respective critiques apply with particular force to
therapeutic, judicial monitoring, and order maintenance models of specialized
criminal law administration. A decarceration model, however, is primarily
invested in shifting problems and resources to other extralegal sectors, making
it less susceptible to the charge of nai[#xFE]ve legalism. And on a
decarceration model, the diversionary programs are open to all persons, not just
those referred through the court, so it is not principally the courts themselves
that are determining the scope of the populations served or the precise content
of the service providers' interventions. To the extent courts remain involved,
they aim to ensure some measure of accountability for the service providers.

   In response to the concern raised by Spinak--that the structural problems at
issue emanate from police practices, legislatures, prosecutorial prerogatives,
and the desolation of poor urban and rural neighborhoods and so cannot be
resolved by court innovation--a decarceration model directs attention to
reframing understandings of crime and punishment in ways that promise to shift
police practices and prosecutorial prerogatives, as explored earlier in Part
III. A decarceration model does not purport to use the court directly to resolve
the broader problems but, in reframing and publicizing a conception of drug
dependency, mental illness, and other matters as structural and social
challenges, a decarceration model: (a) makes available other ways of conceiving
and managing these concerns and (b) actively enlists police and prosecutors in
the courts' work, thereby influencing those agencies' perspectives and conduct.
Empirical documentation of the courts' progress may ultimately provide the basis
for legislative change, as described earlier in Part III. A decarceration model,
thus, promises to effect change in policing, prosecution, and to do so through
legislation rather than assuming that a legalist court-based strategy on its own
will effect desired change. Finally, in galvanizing resources for blighted
social service sectors and neighborhoods, a decarceration model may begin to
address (invariably only partially) some of the broader structural deficits to
which therapeutic, judicial monitoring, or order maintenance models are less
attuned due to the almost exclusive focus of these approaches on the presumed
pathologies of individuals.

   A decarceration model also begins to account for Quinn's objections regarding
the implausibility, due to cost, of bringing specialized criminal courts to
scale as well as the threat of judicial overreaching. On a decarceration model,
the courts are part of an interim decarceration strategy carried out by
reframing particular conceptions of crime, punishment, and its alternatives; by
partially reshaping the institutional roles of judges, defense counsel,
prosecutors, and criminal courts; and by shifting resources. A decarceration
model need not be brought to scale to stimulate some significant measure of
cognitive reframing,  [*1660]  institutional reinvention, and systemic change,
as certain specialized criminal courts have already begun to do.

   The problem of judicial overreaching to which Quinn attends, and which is in
part a product of excessive faith in legal fora to facilitate change, is
mitigated on a decarceration model due to the minimalist, diversionary approach
characteristic of the model. The central aspiration of courts adopting a
decarceration model is to divert cases to other social sectors, which fulfill
some less formal surveillant function and provide social services without
enlisting judges in that work. Although, as with any court-based reform
strategy, a decarceration model runs some risk of excessive legalism, the
experimental, empirically, and sociologically oriented diversionary approach of
a decarceration model mitigates this risk considerably.

   One might wonder, then, why involve the courts at all if a decarceration
model is primarily diversionary? The answer lies in the fact that the matters at
issue are currently lodged in criminal courts, and political process defects
have left the task of addressing these matters largely to judges in criminal
courts themselves. Judges devised specialized criminal courts as a creative
work-around of these political process defects. At this point, the courts hold
considerable advantages as sites for reshaping public understandings of crime
and punishment, for shifting institutional roles, and for reallocating resources
to other sectors. Further, as Professor Michael Dorf has argued, specialized
criminal courts have "convening power," as well as "disentrenching capacity" to
"impose a 'penalty default' . . . so unpalatable to all parties that they have
no choice but to hammer out some solution."  n292 Also, courts are perceived as
relatively neutral and morally authoritative institutions, lending greater force
to the experimental and empirical work ongoing there. Finally, courts may
provide some mechanism through which to render service providers accountable in
the transition to a diversionary regime. Along these lines, then, a
decarceration model may navigate some of the excessive legalism potentially
associated with specialized criminal courts and underscored by Spinak and Quinn,
while taking advantage of the institutional authority of the courts to initiate
broader transformative criminal law reform.

   B. CRIMINAL JUSTICE?

   A separate question regarding specialized criminal courts is whether they
undermine the expressive force of criminal justice. Conveying blame and/or
deterring wrongdoing are arguably the most important features of the criminal
law.  n293 Plus, tying moral blame to criminal sanctions may play a critical
role in  [*1661]  realizing the criminal law's deterrent potential.  n294
Furthermore, Richard C. Boldt has argued that criminal law "does more than
simply express an intentionalist perspective"--a perspective that affirms human
agency and moral responsibility--but additionally, "it is a vital societal
mechanism by which that perspective is created and maintained, and the causal or
objective perspective obscured."  n295 For this reason, Boldt contends it is a
mistake to medicalize addiction and thereby excuse it; instead,
decriminalization is preferable to excusing categories of conduct which are
ill-suited for criminal prosecution, in part because appropriate excusing
factors would undermine the fundamentally intentionalist perspective of the
criminal law.  n296 From this vantage point, specialized criminal courts might
be understood to weaken the moral condemnatory dimension of criminal justice
and, hence, to undercut its deterrent force (insofar as moral prohibition is
necessary to make deterrence effective).

   In beginning to address these concerns, at first blush it may appear that
retributivism is a theory of punishment irreconcilably at odds with the express
mission of decarceration. The crux of a retributive approach is to punish
offenders proportionally to their moral blameworthiness, based on the crime
committed. Leniency and harshness both violate the principle of proportionality.

   Yet, upon closer examination, there may be a retributive defense of a
decarceration model after all. A retributive account of a decarceration model
would proceed on the following premises. First, if retributivist criminal law
administration is to impart moral blame and assign proportionate punishment, it
ought to focus on those forms of misconduct for which blame is apt--not on
conduct for which victims are absent or where moral agency is seriously in
question. Courts adopting a decarceration approach focus in large part, though
not entirely, on what Professor Sanford Kadish has characterized as "morally
neutral" criminal offenses or on offenders whose moral blameworthiness is
otherwise mitigated.  n297 For these categories of offense and offender, the
retributive concern with imparting moral blame through criminal law holds less
sway.

   Still, in cases involving both morally neutral as well as more morally
charged offenses, courts adopting a decarceration approach limit defendants'
liberty in significant ways, which are surely experienced by defendants as
constraining, sanctioning, and, in those respects, punitive. For example, a drug
addict mandated by the court to undergo treatment or a person with mental
illness  [*1662]  mandated to comply with a mental health regimen, both have
their liberty undermined. In the throes of addiction or a psychotic manic
episode, most persons would prefer to use drugs or experience their mania.
Specialized criminal courts punish those persons by limiting their liberty and
mandating by force of law a socially preferred course of action. In other words,
social service intervention and punishment are not necessarily diametrically
opposed. Such intervention may be experienced as punitive. And in fact, such
intervention "can actually provide the ideological basis whereby the state
exercises greater control over the individual than is typical of a normal
criminal court."  n298 In this regard, from a retributive standpoint,
specialized criminal courts may enable more meaningful punitiveness than
conventional criminal courts. According to former Kansas City drug court
prosecutor Claire McCaskill, the diversionary programs required of participants
in her jurisdiction are "tougher than the alternatives."  n299

   In contrast, conventional jail, prison, and probationary sentencing often
fail on a retributive theory, either because of disproportionate harshness when
an inmate will be physically harmed and subject to brutal conditions, or when
prison, jail, and probation function as part of the anticipated life course--not
as especially stigmatizing punishment--for certain demographics of criminally
convicted persons.  n300 In this regard, diversionary sentencing may provide
more meaningful, proportionate, and significantly liberty-constraining
punishment from a retributive standpoint than conventional sentencing.  n301
Additionally, because a decarceration model maintains no commitment to a purely
therapeutic neo-rehabilitative or purely deterrent judicial monitoring approach,
there is nothing to prevent specialized criminal court teams from incorporating
proportional sentencing constraints in devising diversionary sentences.

   A decarceration model need not fundamentally undermine an agency-focused
intentionalist perspective of the sort, Boldt addresses, but merely reorganizes
society's response to particular defendants and offenses, preferring mandatory
social institutional integration to jail or prison sentencing. Criminal
prohibitions remain intact until they are legislatively altered, so the
expressive moral condemnation function of criminal law remains, in that regard,
unchanged. The sentence assigned in response merely shifts from prison, jail,
and conventional criminal supervision to other sectors.

   This shift occurs on a decarceration model in part in the interests of a
larger concern for justice--for maintaining the legitimacy of a legal order that
is deeply compromised by overcriminalization and overincarceration. Even on a
Kantian retributive theory, it may be that some measure of lenience is warranted
[*1663]  to "preserve the legal order on which justice depends."  n302 Though
much more could surely be said, for now that concludes the retributive defense
of a decarceration model.

   From the perspective of deterrence, a decarceration approach dissuades for
the same reasons that it may be experienced as punishment from a retributive
standpoint: diversionary sentences still substantially constrain defendants'
liberty. A potential offender aware that apprehension may lead to a
court-ordered diversion program, will be inclined to desist from being
apprehended for conduct that will lead to a diversionary sentence, something
that individual would prefer to avoid. Critically, on a decarceration model,
referral services are open to all comers, not just those referred through
diversionary courts, so there is no incentive to offend in order to obtain
services should those services be desired. Further, for most eligible
defendants--mentally ill persons, drug addicts, veterans suffering severe
post-traumatic stress--their socially disruptive conduct is unlikely to be
carried out following reflective cost-benefit analysis, so the deterrent
potential of any criminal law administrative arrangement is questionable.  n303
It must, of course, be acknowledged that a diversionary sentence will not deter
those individuals who wish both to commit an offense subject to the jurisdiction
of a specialized criminal court and who wish to enter diversionary programming.
But as noted above in reference to retributive concerns, this same problem
arises with respect to conventional jail, prison, and probationary sentencing:
for many criminal defendants, criminal law involvement has become an anticipated
part of the life course, a life stage through which certain demographics of
defendants expect to pass, and, in this regard, a diversionary approach may not
be appreciably less stigmatizing (and less deterrent) than conventional
sentencing.

   One reason a decarceration model is preferable to a more jurisprudentially
specified model of specialized criminal law administration, such as therapeutic
jurisprudence, is because this jurisprudentially underspecified form permits the
courts to engage multiple complex meaning imparting functions involved in
criminal law administration. In certain criminal cases, the ideal role of the
court may be simultaneously to condemn a given offense and the possibly
reprehensible motivations behind it, to reaffirm the worth of the victim, to aim
to craft a sanction that will deter the offender and others from such conduct in
the future, but also to act mercifully. This is a complex undertaking, to be
sure, and one that cannot be easily captured under a single criminal law
jurisprudential theory, whether a therapeutic jurisprudential approach or an
instrumentally deterrent  [*1664]  model. As Dan M. Kahan and Martha C. Nussbaum
have proposed: "A disposition that purports to answer only a single, abstract
question--did the defendant's background 'cause' his crime? or even does the
defendant 'deserve' to be punished?--will never be rich enough to convey all of
these meanings."  n304 In this respect, courts adopting a decarceration approach
have overdetermined meanings, rendering them potentially consistent with a range
of differing ideological and legal precommitments. Retributivists may favor
diversionary courts because they enable a tough and intrusive form of criminal
law administration that is proportional to wrongdoing and lenient where in the
interests of justice, having the potential to both deter and prevent future
offending, and others may be drawn to diversionary courts for their
rehabilitative and humanitarian potential. Regardless of one's criminal law
theoretical commitments, a decarceration model promises to reduce criminal law
administrative costs, increase efficacy, and reduce reliance on incarceration.

   For the time being, a decarceration approach is best suited to misconduct for
which there is some considerable collective interest--among legal actors and the
public--in experimental alternative social response. But perhaps over time a
growing class of offenses and offenders will come to seem suitable candidates
for decarceration. There are surely some crimes of violence that will not be
amenable to decarceration processing at all, though it is not entirely clear
what those offenses are in the abstract. The conduct of the person who murders,
who rapes, who robs by violent means may not be subject to redirection through
court or other intervention, and the only politically and socially viable
response may be moral condemnation and incapacitation. As sociologist Jack Katz
explains in his studies in Seductions of Crime, certain violent acts may "emerge
from a dizziness in which conformity is the greatest spiritual challenge and
deviance promises the peace of transcendent significance."  n305 But for others
who have killed, their deviant conduct may never again be repeated--it may have
occurred in a drug-induced haze that, following recovery, would no longer
threaten others and for which moral culpability is lacking. The experimental,
unfinished character of a decarceration model allows this question be resolved
incrementally over time.  n306

    [*1665]  C. REDUCED PROCEDURAL PROTECTIONS?

   Specialized criminal courts frequently adopt a collaborative approach that
entails, at certain stages, reduced adversarialism and reduced procedural
protections--an approach that critics charge raises numerous due process
concerns.  n307 Criminal defense attorneys object to these relaxed procedures on
the grounds that reduced procedural protections lead to outcomes that are bad
for their clients and that more generally are corrosive of the legitimacy and
integrity of criminal law.  n308 This line of objection continues that, when
defense counsel works as part of a diversionary sentencing "team," they may be
less than vigilant in seeking to have illegally obtained evidence excluded and
less willing to challenge the legal or factual bases of the government's
charges.  n309 Defendants' interactions with social service providers outside
the presence of counsel also may entail due process violations as any
incriminating statements may affect the defendant's revocation sentence.  n310
In certain drug courts, for instance, judges may rely on progress reports from
substance abuse programmers in determining whether to apply sanctions to court
participants; domestic violence courts similarly rely on reports from anger
management programs to assess compliance.  n311 This information is obtained in
a "treatment" context and is not subject to any measures that would ensure
procedural fairness or regularity.  n312

    [*1666]  Unlike on a therapeutic jurisprudence, judicial monitoring, or
order maintenance model, on a decarceration approach there is considerable room
to incorporate robust procedural protections, thereby responding to most
procedural objections leveled generally against specialized criminal courts,
even if there remain inevitably some procedural rights trade-offs. Because the
legal process itself is not understood to have a therapeutic or other
nonconventional orientation on a decarceration model, full due process
protections should and have been applied at the stage of revocation.  n313 To
accommodate concerns regarding judicial neutrality, courts adopting a
decarceration model could readily assign two separate judges, one to handle
supervision and a separate judge to handle revocation.  n314 The due process
problems posed by labeling defendants in judicial monitoring courts "sex
offenders" prior to adjudication are so obvious as to require little
explanation--on a decarceration, model preadjudication judicial monitoring need
not occur. An additional substantial ground for procedural objections is the
often substantial disparity in specialized criminal courts between the
relatively light sentence a defendant would have received in the conventional
court and the disproportionately harsh jail or prison sentence a defendant will
receive if he or she fails in the diversionary program. Because a decarceration
model's primary aim is to reduce reliance on incarceration consistent with
maintaining public safety, such courts do not seek to obtain leverage by
imposing disproportionately harsh revocation sentences; in fact, empirical
analyses suggest that the severity of sanctions in drug courts does not appear
to reduce the subsequent number of crimes committed or days of drug use.  n315

   Beyond these more obvious modifications on a decarceration model to account
for procedural justice concerns, diversionary courts may operate in accord with
any of several different procedural configurations. Courts may be
pretrial/pre-plea, post-plea/presentencing, or post-conviction sentencing
alternatives. For example, some drug court programs provide for placement in a
drug court following adjudication but, if the terms of the program are violated,
probation is revoked and the court will sentence the defendant anew or based on
a predetermined revocation sentence.  n316 In contrast, in other specialized
criminal courts, failure to comply merely leads to the reinstatement of criminal
proceedings, not  [*1667]  to a previously bargained conviction or sentence.
n317

   The decision to take a plea is a serious one and making an informed and
rational choice about pleading guilty is particularly difficult when the
alternative is a possibly much lengthier prison sentence and when the defendant
is drug-addicted or suffering from mental illness.  n318 One way to attempt to
circumvent the procedural concerns that arise under such circumstances is to
have the diversionary alternative process occur prior to a plea being entered.
On this approach, a defendant would elect whether to opt in to the specialized
criminal court and upon successful completion of the diversionary program any
charges would be dropped. Egregious misconduct while in the program would result
in referral to the conventional criminal process for the prior criminal conduct,
but evidence from the diversionary period obtained through treatment or other
social service intervention could be excluded. The defendant would then choose
whether to plead guilty at the outset, pursue any motions practice, or proceed
to trial.

   The due process concerns on this approach relate principally to the fact that
the diversionary alternative, to the extent it is intrusive and limiting of the
defendant's liberty, is mandated prior to a finding of guilt. But the
defendant's participation is optional, no more constrained than any choice made
in light of the background criminal law regime, and the specialized court
participant may at any point opt out and return to the conventional process.
n319

   Still, the choice of the participant does not eliminate concerns about
coercion because any choice takes place against the coercive pressures of the
criminal law regime and the broader social and political setting in which the
defendant finds himself or herself. And if specialized criminal courts increase
pressures to arrest or for arrestees to enter diversion programs, they will have
constrained individuals' options in a significant sense rather than having
expanded them. But the coercion at work in determining whether to enter the
specialized criminal court is no more than the coercion in play at any other
critical phase of proceedings in which a defendant decides to plead guilty or go
to trial, and the potential benefits to the participant are considerable.

   The other available approach is to employ the diversionary court as a
post-conviction sentencing alternative, with egregious offending while in the
program punished by an alternative pre-agreed upon sentence. This avoids the
[*1668]  due process problems associated with court mandates prior to a finding
of guilt but increases the risk of coercive, less-than-voluntary pleas.

   As far as the post-conviction configuration is concerned, due process and
coercion concerns may be mitigated if there is not too harsh a pre-agreed upon
or subsequently determined revocation sentence--that is, if the revocation
sentence is standardized to what the defendant would have received had he or she
not opted into the specialized court. The procedural concerns could be further
mitigated on a post-conviction model if both those convicted following trial and
those who pled guilty were eligible for alternative sentencing. This latter,
post-conviction approach would attend to the procedural rights of defendants and
would likely reduce incarceration and associated costs. Expanding the ability of
defendants to remain out of prison protects their interests in avoiding carceral
sentencing and their due process rights so long as defendants are still able to
challenge any illegally obtained evidence at the outset of the case, elect to go
to trial, and not be subject to a disproportionately harsh sentence upon
revocation.  n320

   In sum, the trade-off is between a pretrial, pre-plea model that potentially
avoids criminal proceedings altogether and more closely renders participation a
choice, and a post-conviction model that avoids certain due process problems by
making the specialized criminal court program effectively a part of the
defendant's sentence. But unless the post-conviction approach allows defendants
to enter following trial, it applies substantial pressure to plead guilty to
retain the option to avoid jail or prison, even under circumstances where the
defendant may contest guilt. The advantage of the experimental quality of a
decarceration model is that jurisdictions may test the various procedural
configurations and determine which best serves the range of interests at stake
and raises fewer due process and other problems--not merely in theory but in
terms of participants' experiences on the ground.  n321

   Finally, it is also critical to consider whether procedural protections are
the panacea their proponents assume for fairness in conventional criminal law
[*1669]  administration.  n322 Because there is such great pressure on the
conventional courts due to high case volumes, the vast majority of cases are
handled through guilty pleas. Often public defenders have little time to
investigate a case before a client is advised to plead guilty. But if greater
numbers of cases were removed from the conventional criminal courts to
specialized criminal courts and other sectors, fewer cases would remain in
conventional courts, provided that specialized courts manage to avoid a
net-widening enforcement effect. This would permit more robust procedural
protections and investigations in the conventional criminal courts. Oddly then,
it is plausible that the removal of cases to a less adversarial specialized
criminal context may enhance procedural justice overall, improving procedural
safeguards in conventional courts rather than the outcome feared by
proceduralists.

   D. SPECIALIZATION FOR GOOD OR FOR ILL?

   A further peril of a specialized criminal courts law reform strategy is that
it may require a profusion of specialized courts to address the myriad problems
requiring reform. Convening a separate court for each separate area in which
substantive criminal law reform is desired would be enormously costly.  n323
Additionally, reliance on criminal court specialization might well threaten to
undermine rule of law values centered on a model of judges as neutral
generalists.  n324

   Although these are legitimate objections to certain forms of criminal court
specialization, a decarceration model is less likely to entail these troubling
features of specialization for two primary reasons. First, a decarceration model
is an interim strategy for criminal law reform, focused specifically on reducing
reliance on incarceration by setting in motion broader reform processes as
discussed previously in section II.D and Part III. Diversionary courts need not
aspire to become a permanent criminal law administrative fixture. Thus, a
diversionary decarceration model poses a less significant threat of
proliferating courts endlessly in response to every criminal law problem
requiring reform. As a consequence, this approach stands to intrude less upon
the predominant norm of generalist adjudication. Second, courts adopting a
decarceration approach need not be particularly substantively specialized. A
decarceration model could  [*1670]  incorporate within one court jurisdiction
over a range of different matters for which non-carceral sentencing is
preferred. This too stands to reduce the risk of endlessly proliferating
specialized criminal courts and positions specialized criminal court judges in a
role more akin to the prototypical generalist judge.  n325

   E. LEGITIMATION COSTS?

   Finally, specialized criminal courts threaten to impose significant
legitimation costs. First, specialized criminal courts may legitimate increased
harshness in conventional criminal courts once more sympathetic criminal
defendants have been removed. With the removal of presumably more vulnerable or
less blameworthy individuals from conventional criminal courts and prisons, one
might well envision an increase in punitive attitudes toward those remaining.
This is so even though it may be profoundly unfair to allow some criminal law
breakers access to specialized criminal courts because we perceive them to be
more worthy of our understanding, when others are really no more blameworthy.
n326

   A related risk is that in removing more purportedly sympathetic defendants
from conventional criminal courts, racial and class disproportion will increase,
with more defendants of color and materially poor defendants remaining in the
conventional courts.  n327 Indeed, that is precisely what occurred under
deinstitutionalization in the 1960s when the racialization of mental hospitals
increased.  n328 And preliminary results from mental health courts suggest this
trend is a problem in that context too, as a study of case processing in seven
mental health courts found overrepresentation at the point of referral of older
individuals, white persons, and women as compared to their proportion in the
criminal justice system generally.  n329 Though empirical monitoring enables
identification of the point at which racial disparities emerge, identification
of the locus of the problem does not by any stretch guarantee its elimination.
The convergence of interest between wealthier white defendants with mental
health or addiction problems and similarly addicted or mentally ill poorer
defendants of color--an interest convergence that likely contributed in large
measure to the emergence and widespread popularity of specialized criminal
courts--will be able to sustain a legitimate alternative sentencing regime only
if all defendants, irrespective  [*1671]  of socioeconomic status or race, have
equal access to favorable diversionary sentences.  n330

   Separately, there is the problem of potentially legitimating the management
of particular social challenges through criminal law by vesting more authority
in specialized criminal courts to address social problems.  n331 These are all
genuine and profoundly concerning problems associated with a specialized
criminal courts law reform strategy.

   There are several ways in which a decarceration model may attempt to address
these issues. At the outset, awareness of and careful attention to the
associated risks may help to minimize their occurrence and impact in the event
the problems identified come to pass. For example, ongoing empirical monitoring
may track any racial or class disproportion as it arises and direct attention to
the areas where the problem is greatest so that it might be addressed,
explicitly focusing institutional actors on confronting racial disparities in
referral, termination, or wherever else they are occurring. Ultimately, many of
the pathologies in U.S. criminal law administration have to do with race and
with racialization of the category of the criminal defendant or incarcerated
person, so meaningful criminal law reform will almost certainly require
grappling intensively with the racial dimensions of criminal law enforcement.
n332

   Insofar as a decarceration model seeks to unwind harsh punishment and
incarceration generally, this approach may serve more broadly to call into
question exceedingly punitive criminal law frameworks, both for those defendants
in specialized courts and those in conventional courts. Movement of judges
between conventional and specialized criminal courts may also serve to limit
stratification of the two systems.  n333 Admittedly, however, these cautionary
efforts may prove inadequate.

   Even so, in taking stock of these legitimation costs, as well as the other
problems considered in this Part, it is crucial to compare the problems
presented on a decarceration model with (a) the limits of the other competing
reformist models of specialized criminal law administration considered earlier
in this Article, and then to compare each of these to (b) the status quo in
conventional criminal case processing in the United States. That is, the limits
of a decarceration model or other specialized criminal law reformist model
should be considered as compared, not just to the objector's preferred utopian
alternative, but  [*1672]  relative to the status quo in U.S. criminal law
administration.  n334

   Procedural protections may be found wanting on a decarceration model, but are
these protections more meaningfully enforced in the standard criminal courts
where well over ninety percent of criminal cases end in a plea, following
proceedings, the character of which Malcolm Feeley powerfully captured in his
book The Process is the Punishment?  n335 Is the liberty-infringing character of
surveillance on a decarceration model more onerous than in prisons and jails,
where many more specialized court participants might well be were the courts to
be disbanded? Retributivists must consider too the relative achievement of
retributive goals in the specialized criminal court setting as compared to the
standard criminal process, which Feeley described decades ago as follows, and
which remains in these respects unimproved:


     [T]rials are rare events, and even protracted plea bargaining is an
     exception. Jammed every morning with a new mass of arrestees . . .
     [t]hese courts are chaotic and confusing; officials communicate in a
     verbal short-hand wholly unintelligible to the accused and accuser
     alike, and they seem to make arbitrary decisions, sending one person
     to jail and freeing the next. But for the most part they are lenient;
     they sentence few people to jail and impose few large fines.
     . . . .
     . . . Judges, bored by their jobs, become callous toward defendants
     who are so different from themselves. Prosecutors, dulled by their
     repetitive work . . . appear to be vindictive. Defense attorneys,
     depressed by feelings that their efforts are not appreciated, can
     easily begin to treat their clients carelessly.  n336

   And this picture is not unique to the second half of the twentieth century
when Feeley wrote his study of the New Haven criminal courts. Decades earlier,
Roscoe Pound decried a similar set of ills, which persist after what is now
approaching a century of efforts to improve conventional criminal law
administration:


     The bad physical surroundings, the confusion, the want of decorum, the
     undignified offhand disposition of cases at high speed, the frequent
     suggestion of something working behind the scenes . . . create in the
     minds of observers a general suspicion of the whole process of law
     enforcement . . . .  n337

   More recently, in his study of the Chicago criminal courts, investigative
[*1673]  journalist Steve Bogira sounded strikingly similar notes:


     Every day, Chicago police wagons swing onto the grounds of the Cook
     County Criminal Courthouse and deposit their cargo at a rear door. The
     prisoners being unloaded . . . are here for the usual reasons. . . .
     They tried to buy heroin from an undercover cop. They pocketed a fifth
     of booze at a grocery and failed to outrun the security guard.
     . . . .
     . . . The courtroom staff works . . . reflexively, not reflectively.
     The workers have no time to give much thought to any but the most
     extraordinary case, or to examine what they are doing.
     . . . .
     . . . [J]ustice miscarries every day, by doing precisely what we ask
     it to.  n338

   The bottom line is that the status quo to which a decarceration model should
be compared, absent a viable alternative reform proposal, is a status quo that
is deeply inadequate whether one is concerned about procedural justice, liberty,
racial disproportionality, or retributive punishment. Because these challenges
are not unique to specialized criminal courts but rather reflect problems
associated with conventional criminal law administration, it is no answer to
simply jettison specialized criminal courts and revert to conventional criminal
law frameworks.

   Still, given the myriad perils associated with the competing models of
specialized criminal courts elaborated in Part I, the question invariably comes
to mind: are the potential benefits of a decarceration model worth the risks
identified in specialized criminal courts in the preceding pages? This Article's
short answer is yes. Yes, that is, if the courts are able to employ the three
strategies elaborated here and in which some specialized criminal courts are
actively engaged: reframing social understandings of crime, punishment, and its
alternatives; institutionally reshaping the courts and associated agencies
themselves; and effecting systemic change, shifting a wide range of social
concerns to other sectors better equipped to address the problems at hand.

   CONCLUSION

   In this moment of increased openness to thoroughgoing criminal law reform,
after decades of escalating criminal sentences, thousands of specialized
criminal courts have emerged across the country and around the globe. These
courts have become the location of a contest between competing criminal law
models. Certain models at work in specialized criminal courts are configured in
such a way that threatens to produce a series of unintended and undesirable
consequences--increased and unnecessary criminal supervision, diminished
procedural  [*1674]  safeguards, and potentially even increased incarceration.
But a less predominant criminal law reformist model--a decarceration model--may
provide a way of developing different approaches to certain of the social
problems currently managed through criminal law.

   The greatest promise of a decarceration model--if it succeeds at engendering
a certain degree of cognitive reframing, institutional reinvention, and systemic
change--is to remove particular categories of offenses and offenders from
conventional criminal courts to be addressed both more effectively and more
humanely elsewhere. Primary candidates for such removal through existing
specialized criminal courts include drug offenders, mentally ill persons, and
individuals suffering the post-traumatic stress of war. Removal of these matters
to other sectors would reduce volume pressures on conventional criminal courts
so that they might more meaningfully and fairly address the relatively few cases
of serious violent and property crime, for which alternative processes seem
inappropriate or would be exceedingly unpopular. These more serious criminal
matters may not be handled best in the standard criminal process either, but we
have yet to identify a better approach. In due course, if specialized criminal
courts set in motion some measure of systemic change in criminal law
administration, they may both focus and improve responses in cases of serious
crime and simultaneously improve community economic development, accessible
public health services, employment, and more generally, human well-being. It is
also possible that specialized criminal courts will achieve none of these
things--that their perils rather than their possibilities will be their
legacy--but, given the grave inadequacies and injustices of the status quo in
U.S. criminal law administration, these courts are well worth trying.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesWeaponsGeneral OverviewCriminal Law &
ProcedureSentencingAlternativesSubstance Abuse ProgramsCriminal Law &
ProcedurePostconviction ProceedingsImprisonment

FOOTNOTES:





n1  See, e.g., LAUREN E. GLAZE, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, CORRECTIONAL
POPULATION IN THE UNITED STATES, 2010, at 1 (2011); PEW CENTER ON THE STATES,
ONE IN 31: THE LONG REACH OF AMERICAN CORRECTIONS 1 (2009); see also Carol S.
Steiker, Mass Incarceration: Causes, Consequences, and Exit Strategies, 9 OHIO
ST. J. CRIM. L. 1, 1 (2011) ("The American rate of incarceration has increased
more than fivefold since 1972 . . . [and] [t]he current rate is more than 700
per 100,000 . . . . The United States['] . . . rate of incarceration [is] . . .
higher than even the most violent societies and most oppressive regimes on the
planet[.] . . . The change in American incarceration rates is a shift relative
to a previously stable baseline that can only be described as revolutionary . .
. ." (footnotes omitted)).





n2  See, e.g., Charlie Savage, Trend To Lighten Harsh Sentences Catches On in
Conservative States, N.Y. TIMES, Aug. 12, 2011,
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/13/us/13penal.html (noting increasing support in
traditionally conservative states for reduced incarceration, including on the
part of prominent conservatives such as Edwin R. Meese III, Grover Norquist, and
Asa Hutchinson); see also Mass Incarceration in the United States: At What
Cost?: Hearing Before the J. Econ. Comm., 110th Cong. 1-2 (2007) (opening
statement of Sen. Jim Webb) ("[T]he United States now imprisons a higher
percentage of its citizens than any other country in the world. . . . The growth
in the prison population is only nominally related to crime rates. . . . The
racial composition of America's prisons is alarming. . . . [W]e are spending
enormous amounts of money to maintain [the prison] system."); Erik Luna & Paul
G. Cassell, Mandatory Minimalism, 32 CARDOZO L. REV. 1, 3 (2010) (noting
conservative support for eliminating mandatory minimums); William J. Stuntz, The
Pathological Politics of Criminal Law, 100 MICH. L. REV. 505, 509 (2001) ("As
criminal law expands, both lawmaking and adjudication pass into the hands of
police and prosecutors . . . . The end point of this progression is clear:
criminal codes that cover everything and decide nothing, that serve only to
delegate power to district attorneys' offices and police departments. . . . In a
criminal justice system that incarcerates two million people, criminal law is
becoming a sideshow. It seems like, and is, an unhealthy state of affairs.");
Lo[#xEF]c Wacquant, Class, Race & Hyperincarceration in Revanchist America,
D[#xC6]DALUS, Summer 2010, at 74, 74 ("[T]he joint rolling back of the stingy
social state and rolling out of the gargantuan penal state . . . have remade the
country's stratification, cities, and civic culture, and are recasting the very
character of 'blackness' itself."); Newt Gingrich & Pat Nolan, Op-Ed., Prison
Reform: A Smart Way for States To Save Money and Lives, WASH. POST, Jan. 7,
2011,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2011/01/06/AR2011010604386.h
tml (exploring the substantial potential of decarceration to reduce costs and
crime).





n3  See, e.g., JUDITH GREENE & MARC MAUER, THE SENTENCING PROJECT, DOWNSCALING
PRISONS: LESSONS FROM FOUR STATES 1-2 (2010); see also David Cole, Turning the
Corner on Mass Incarceration?, 9 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L. 27 (2011).





n4  See 131 S. Ct. 1910, 1944-47 (2011); see also Solomon Moore, California
Prisons Must Cut Inmate Population, N.Y. TIMES, Aug. 4, 2009,
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/08/05/us/05calif.html.





n5  See, e.g., Louis Michael Seidman, Hyper-Incarceration and Strategies of
Disruption: Is There a Way Out?, 9 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L. 109 (2011); Robert
Weisberg & Joan Petersilia, The Dangers of Pyrrhic Victories Against Mass
Incarceration, D[#xC6]DALUS, Summer 2010, at 124.





n6  Several points of terminological clarification are in order. "Carceral"
sentencing refers to prisonand jail-based criminal sanctions. I use the term
"specialized criminal court" to refer to courts that specialize in a specific
subset of criminal cases, such as matters in which defendants are veterans or
the charged conduct is drug related. This specialization is distinct from that
of many state trial courts that hear criminal cases exclusively and are
specialized in that respect. See LAWRENCE BAUM, SPECIALIZING THE COURTS xi
(2011). "Decarceration" refers to the consistent reduction of the number of
people sent to prison or jail, with the ultimate aim of abandoning imprisonment
as a dominant mechanism for achieving social order.





n7  See, e.g., RACHEL PORTER ET AL., CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, WHAT MAKES A
COURT PROBLEM SOLVING?: UNIVERSAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR PROBLEM-SOLVING
JUSTICE iii, 50-56 (2010). There is overwhelming bipartisan endorsement of
specialized criminal courts and every state has at least one such court. See,
e.g., RESOLUTION 22: IN SUPPORT OF PROBLEM-SOLVING COURT PRINCIPLES AND METHODS
(Conference of Chief Justices & Conference of State Court Adm'rs, adopted July
29, 2004), http://ccj.ncsc.dni.us/CourtAdmin
Resolutions/ProblemSolvingCourtPrinciplesAndMethods.pdf; see also GREG BERMAN &
JOHN FEINBLATT, GOOD COURTS: THE CASE FOR PROBLEM-SOLVING JUSTICE 9-10 (2005);
Judith S. Kaye, Delivering Justice Today: A Problem-Solving Approach, 22 YALE L.
& POL'Y REV. 125, 130 (2004) ("[T]hese courts have developed a new
architecture--including new technology, new staffing, and new linkages--to
improve the effectiveness of court sanctions, particularly intermediate
sanctions . . . ."). Criminal court specialization has also influenced criminal
law administration abroad. See JAMES L. NOLAN JR., LEGAL ACCENTS, LEGAL
BORROWING: THE INTERNATIONAL PROBLEM-SOLVING COURT MOVEMENT (2009).





n8  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 6 ("[P]roblem-solving courts seek
to reduce the criminal justice system's reliance on incarceration . . . .");
John A. Bozza, Benevolent Behavior Modification: Understanding the Nature and
Limitations of Problem-Solving Courts, 17 WIDENER L.J. 97, 98 (2007).





n9  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 5-10.





n10  See, e.g., JAMES L. NOLAN, JR., REINVENTING JUSTICE: THE AMERICAN DRUG
COURT MOVEMENT (2001).





n11  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 3; NOLAN, supra note 10, at 185
("What we are doing here is no less than a complete revolution in
jurisprudence." (quoting Judge Peggy Hora)).





n12  See Peggy Fulton Hora et al., Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Drug
Treatment Court Movement: Revolutionizing the Criminal Justice System's Response
to Drug Abuse and Crime in America, 74 NOTRE DAME L. REV. 439, 463-64 (1999)
(describing how drug courts work to "shift the paradigm" of legal processing of
drug cases); see also DRUG STRATEGIES, DRUG COURTS: A REVOLUTION IN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE 2, 5 (1999) ("[T]his entirely new approach has revolutionized
traditional attitudes toward criminal justice."). A separate body of empirical
analyses focuses on how specialized criminal courts reduce costs and recidivism,
though it is not always clear whether these studies adequately control for
potential selection and attrition biases. See, e.g., SHANNON M. CAREY & MARK S.
WALLER, NPC RESEARCH, OREGON DRUG COURT COST STUDY: STATEWIDE COSTS AND
PROMISING PRACTICES (2011) (finding that Oregon drug courts have produced cost
savings, and are projected to save taxpayers even more in the future); Scott
W.M. Burrus et al., Show Me the Money: Child Welfare Cost Savings of a Family
Drug Court, JUV. & FAM. CT. J., Summer 2011, at 1, 10-11 & tbl.2 (finding that
family drug court in Baltimore, Maryland reduced foster care-related
expenditures); see also SHELLI B. ROSSMAN ET AL., URBAN INST., THE MULTI-SITE
ADULT DRUG COURT EVALUATION: THE IMPACT OF DRUG COURTS 246-47 (2011) (concluding
that "drug courts--while effective at reducing costly criminal offending--are
also expensive enough to offset those costs").





n13  See, e.g., Michael C. Dorf & Charles F. Sabel, Drug Treatment Courts and
Emergent Experimentalist Government, 53 VAND. L. REV. 831, 883 (2000) ("The very
existence of treatment courts is remarkable, their rapid diffusion, provisional
successes, and continual experimentalist self-examination doubly so. . . .
Surely there is hope for the renewal of our public institutions in this
surprising success."). Proponents of specialized criminal courts generally
contend that conventional U.S. criminal law administration is deeply
compromised, and specialized criminal courts may better address individual cases
and improve criminal justice results overall. See, e.g., Brenda Bratton Blom et
al., Community Voice and Justice: An Essay on Problem-Solving Courts as a Proxy
for Change, 10 U. MD. L.J. RACE, RELIGION, GENDER & CLASS 25, 36-37 (2010).





n14  See, e.g., Josh Bowers, Contraindicated Drug Courts, 55 UCLA L. REV. 783,
786, 830-35 (2008) (critically examining adverse consequences of drug courts and
proposing instead that such courts be transformed into voluntary rehabilitation
programs) ("Put concretely, drug courts are 'contraindicated' for genuine
addicts . . . . The consequent adverse effects may be atypically long prison
sentences for the very defendants that drug courts were supposed to keep out of
prison and off of drugs." (footnote omitted)); Mae C. Quinn, The Modern
Problem-Solving Court Movement: Domination of Discourse and Untold Stories of
Criminal Justice Reform, 31 WASH. U. J.L. & POL'Y 57, 80-82 (2009); see also
NAT'L ASS'N OF CRIMINAL DEF. LAWYERS, AMERICA'S PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS: THE
CRIMINAL COSTS OF TREATMENT AND THE CASE FOR REFORM (2009).





n15  See Erica Goode, Coming Together To Fight for a Troubled Veteran, N.Y.
TIMES, July 17, 2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/18/us/18vets.html.





n16  DEREK DENCKLA& GREG BERMAN, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, RETHINKING THE
REVOLVING DOOR: ALOOK AT MENTAL ILLNESS IN THE COURTS 17 (2001) (emphasis
added).





n17  See James L. Nolan, Jr., Therapeutic Adjudication, 39 SOCIETY 29, 32
(2002).





n18  See infra Part II.





n19  See infra section II.A.





n20  See infra section II.B.





n21  See infra section II.C.





n22  A decarceration model is potentially applicable to any specialized criminal
court--a mental health court, veterans court, drug court, or reentry
court--which is organized in significant part to decrease reliance on
incarceration and to devise more effective and humane sentencing alternatives.
See infra sections II.D-IV.





n23  See infra section II.D.





n24  A notable feature of many specialized criminal courts, and one common to
courts adopting a decarceration model, is the incorporation of resident or
external researchers within the courts' institutional design. Internal and
external empirical monitoring entities generate extensive information regarding
the courts' operations. See, e.g., Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 833 ("What
makes the drug courts distinctive and innovative . . . is the novel form of
monitoring, and governance more generally, upon which they rely."). But see
David A. Super, Laboratories of Destitution: Democratic Experimentalism and the
Failure of Antipoverty Law, 157 U. PA. L. REV. 541 (2008) (critically analyzing
democratic experimentalism for mistakenly assuming consensus, reliable metrics
for measuring success, and costless deliberation, among other problems). A
decarceration model of specialized criminal law administration aims to take on
board some of Super's critiques of democratic experimentalism and, at the same
time, to embrace institutional flexibility and ongoing empirically informed
self-evaluation, with attention to building consensus on the substantive ends of
reducing reliance on incarceration through alternative forms of social
integration.





n25  Cf. NAT'L ASS'N OF CRIMINAL DEF. LAWYERS, supra note 14; Bowers, supra note
14.





n26  See, e.g., PORTER ET AL., supra note 7, at 8 ("The potential for bringing
the [specialized criminal] problem-solving court model to scale . . . remains
largely unrealized . . . ").





n27  See infra Parts I-IV.





n28  See, e.g., BRUCE WESTERN, PUNISHMENT AND INEQUALITY IN AMERICA (2006); see
also John C. Coffee, Jr., Hush!: The Criminal Status of Confidential Information
After McNally and Carpenter and the Enduring Problem of Overcriminalization, 26
AM. CRIM. L. REV. 121 (1988); Sanford H. Kadish, The Crisis of
Overcriminalization, 374 ANNALS AM. ACAD. POL. & SOC. SCI. 157 (1967); Erik
Luna, The Overcriminalization Phenomenon, 54 AM. U. L. REV. 703 (2005).





n29  DAVID GARLAND, THE CULTURE OF CONTROL: CRIME AND SOCIAL ORDER IN
CONTEMPORARY SOCIETY (2001).





n30  JAMES Q. WHITMAN, HARSH JUSTICE: CRIMINAL PUNISHMENT AND THE WIDENING
DIVIDE BETWEEN AMERICA AND EUROPE (2003).





n31  LOIC WACQUANT, PUNISHING THE POOR: THE NEOLIBERAL GOVERNMENT OF SOCIAL
INSECURITY (2009); LOIC WACQUANT, URBAN OUTCASTS: A COMPARATIVE SOCIOLOGY OF
ADVANCED MARGINALITY (2008); WESTERN, supra note 28.





n32  JONATHAN SIMON, GOVERNING THROUGH CRIME: HOW THE WAR ON CRIME TRANSFORMED
AMERICAN DEMOCRACY AND CREATED A CULTURE OF FEAR (2007).





n33  See William J. Stuntz, Plea Bargaining and Criminal Law's Disappearing
Shadow, 117 HARV. L. REV. 2548, 2550 (2004) ("The greater the territory
substantive criminal law covers, the smaller the role that law plays in
allocating criminal punishment.").





n34  See, e.g., SIMON, supra note 32; LOIC WACQUANT, PRISONS OF POVERTY 5
(2009).





n35  See HEATHER C. WEST, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, PRISON INMATES AT
MIDYEAR 2009-STATISTICAL TABLES 2 (2010) ("Black non-Hispanic males . . . were
incarcerated at a rate more than 6 times higher than white non-Hispanic males .
. . . "); Bruce Western et al., Crime, Punishment, and American Inequality 7
(June 2003) (unpublished working paper), available at
http://inequality.princeton.edu/papers/western-crime.pdf ("Incredibly, 29
percent of black male dropouts under age 40 were behind bars on an average day
in 2000."); see also MICHELLE ALEXANDER, THE NEW JIM CROW: MASS INCARCERATION IN
THE AGE OF COLORBLINDNESS (2010); DAVID COLE, NO EQUAL JUSTICE: RACE AND CLASS
IN THE AMERICAN CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM (1999); WESTERN, supra note 28; Becky
Pettit & Bruce Western, Mass Imprisonment and the Life Course: Race and Class
Inequality in U.S. Incarceration, 69 AM. SOC. REV. 151 (2004).





n36  See, e.g., JOHN J. GIBBONS & NICHOLAS DE B. KATZENBACH, CONFRONTING
CONFINEMENT: A REPORT OF THE COMMISSION ON SAFETY AND ABUSE IN AMERICA'S PRISONS
23, 26-27 (2006).





n37  See, e.g., HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH, NO ESCAPE: MALE RAPE IN U.S. PRISONS, at v,
63 (2001); see also Sharon Dolovich, Strategic Segregation in the Modem Prison,
48 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1, 2 (2011) ("[I]t is well recognized that people who are
gay or transgender face heightened vulnerability to sexual victimization behind
bars." (footnotes omitted)).





n38  CHARLES DICKENS, 1 AMERICAN NOTES FOR GENERAL CIRCULATION 239 (Chapman &
Hall 2d ed. 1842).





n39  GRESHAM M. SYKES, THE SOCIETY OF CAPTIVES: A STUDY OF A MAXIMUM SECURITY
PRISON 79 (1958).





n40  See, e.g., GIBBONS & KATZENBACH, supra note 36, at 11.





n41  See PEW CENTER ON THE STATES, supra note 1, at 1 (also noting that among
certain demographics correctional supervision rates are even starker--for
example, one in eleven African-Americans are under correctional control).





n42  See, e.g., JOHN SCHMITT ET AL., CTR. FOR ECON. & POLICY RESEARCH, THE HIGH
BUDGETARY COST OF INCARCERATION 2, 10 (2010).





n43  See, e.g., Mary Bosworth, Penal Moderation in the United States?: Yes We
Can, 10 CRIMINOLOGY & PUB. POL'Y 335, 335-36 (2011).





n44  See Shelley Johnson Listwan et al., Cracks in the Penal Harm Movement:
Evidence from the Field, 7 CRIMINOLOGY & PUB. POL'Y 423, 450 (2008).





n45  See, e.g., Vanessa Barker, Explaining the Great American Crime Decline: A
Review of Blumstein and Wallman, Goldberger and Rosenfeld, and Zimring, 35 LAW &
SOC. INQUIRY 489 (2010); Allison Klein, Drop in Violent Crime in D.C. Area and
Some Other Major Cities Puzzles Experts, WASH. POST, July 20, 2009,
http://www.washington
post.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/07/19/AR2009071902154.html; Evan Perez,
Violent Crime Falls Sharply, WALL ST. J., May 25, 2010,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704113504575264432463469618.html;
see also FRANKLIN E. ZIMRING, THE GREAT AMERICAN CRIME DECLINE 57-98 (2007)
(critically analyzing the tendency to attribute crime decline to any single
explicit policy change); Steven D. Levitt, Understanding Why Crime Fell in the
1990s: Four Factors that Explain the Decline and Six that Do Not, 18 J. ECON.
PERSP. 163, 170-83 (2004) (explaining the decline in crime in terms of legalized
abortion, increased police presence, more incarceration, and decrease in crack
cocaine use).





n46  See, e.g., N.Y. CORRECT. L. §§ 270-273 (McKinney 2003 & Supp. 2012)
(providing authority to counties and the city of New York to convene "local
conditional release commissions" to consider candidates for early release); 61
PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. §§ 4503-4506 (West 2010) (permitting a reduction of up to
twenty-five percent of non-violent offender's sentence to encourage offender to
engage in rehabilitative programming); see also Kirk Mitchell, First 10 Felons
Set Free Under Colorado Early-Release Initiative, DENVER POST, Oct. 15, 2009,
http://www.denverpost.com/ci_13564285; Riley Yates, Release Plan for Convicts
Starts Slow, PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE, Sept. 26, 2010, at A14. The Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania has estimated that its Recidivism Risk Reduction Incentive
(RRRI) program--created by the statutory provisions cited above--saves the state
nearly $ 10,000 per RRRI inmate, for a total savings of more than $ 11 million
over the first two years of the program's existence. BRET BUCKLEN & JACQUELINE
YOUNG, PA. DEP'T OF CORR., RECIDIVISM RISK REDUCTION INCENTIVE 2010 REPORT 1
(2011).





n47  See, e.g., Jessica Fender, More Rehab, Less Jail in Drug-Reform Measure,
DENVER POST, Feb. 24, 2010, http://www.denverpost.com/ci_14459351 (reporting on
Colorado legislation reducing offense of possession of between eight and twelve
ounces of marijuana from a felony punishable by up to six years in prison to a
misdemeanor); see also Debi Brazzale, HB10-1352: Lawmakers Unite Behind New
Approach to Drug Offenders, STATE BILL NEWS (Feb. 24, 2010),
http://www.statebillnews.com/2010/02/hb10-1352-lawmakers-unite-behind-new-approa
ch-to-drug-offenders/ (reporting on the same Colorado legislation).





n48  See, e.g., Mary D. Fan, Beyond Budget-Cut Criminal Justice: The Future of
Penal Law, 90 N.C. L. REV. (forthcoming 2012) (working paper draft at 2),
available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1804539.





n49  GREENE & MAUER, supra note 3, at 1.





n50  Id. at 3.





n51  Id. Subsequently, Michigan achieved a twelve percent reduction in its
prison population and Kansas a five percent reduction. See id. at 2.





n52  See, e.g., JUDITH GREENE, JUSTICE STRATEGIES, POSITIVE TRENDS AND BEST
PRACTICES IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM: A NATIONAL OVERVIEW 12-15 (2009); Casey
Seiler, Paterson Signs Drug Law Reform, CAPITOL CONFIDENTIAL (Apr. 24, 2009,
11:22 AM),
http://blog.timesunion.com/capitol/archives/13869/paterson-signs-drug-law-reform
/ (quoting release from the governor's office regarding repeal of the
Rockefeller Drug Laws and relating "three significant pieces of the new laws,"
including first that "they create a drug treatment program to be administered by
drug court judges"). From 1999 to 2009, New York reduced its prison population
by twenty percent. GREENE & MAUER, supra note 3, at 5.





n53  See Rosemary Gartner et al., The Past as Prologue?: Decarceration in
California Then and Now, 10 CRIMINOLOGY & PUB. POL'Y 291, 296, 319 (2011); see
also CAL. CITIES GANG PREVENTION NETWORK, 18TH BULLETIN (2010), available at
http://www.ccgpn.org/Publications/CA%20Cities%20Bulletin%2018.pdf (discussing SB
X3 18). Interestingly, the California Correctional and Peace Officers
Association did not publicly work against SB X3 18, though this may be due to
the legislation's limited anticipated effects on prison reliance. See Gartner et
al., supra, at 319.





n54  Pub. L. No. 110-199, 122 Stat. 657 (2008) (codified as amended in scattered
sections of 18 and 42 U.S.C.). Like other legislative reforms enabling
alternatives to incarceration, Second Chance Act programs must establish that
they are "evidence-based," requiring an evaluation using "evidenced-based
methodology and outcome measures." Id. § 101(d)(3); see also id. §§ 3(a)(3),
113, 201(c)(2)(D), 231 (d)(3)(B), 241(b)(6).





n55  Id. §§ 111, 112.





n56  Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-220, 124 Stat. 2372; see also
Jim Abrams, Congress Passes Bill To Reduce Disparity in Crack, Powder Cocaine
Sentencing, WASH. POST, July 29, 2010,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/28/AR2010072802969.
html.





n57  See, e.g., DAVID M. KENNEDY, DON'T SHOOT: ONE MAN, A STREET FELLOWSHIP, AND
THE END OF VIOLENCE IN INNER-CITY AMERICA (2011) (documenting Professor
Kennedy's implementation of his "Operation Ceasefire" program in cities
throughout the United States, with the cooperation of local police departments).





n58  See, e.g., Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y.
TIMES, Aug. 15, 2011, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n59  See, e.g., RONALD V. CLARKE, U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE, SHOPLIFTING 20 (2002),
available at http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/pdf/el0011345.pdf; see also Neal Kumar
Katyal, Architecture as Crime Control, 111 YALE L.J. 1039, 1041-42 (2002);
Cecelia Klingele et al., Essay, Reimagining Criminal Justice, 2010 WIS. L. REV.
953, 975-76.





n60  130 S. Ct. 2011, 2028-33 (2010).





n61  Id. Subsequently, in its 2011 opinion in Tapia v. United States, the Court
rejected rehabilitation as a ground on which to impose a lengthier federal
prison sentence. 131 S. Ct. 2382, 2393 (2011) (holding that "a court may not
impose or lengthen a prison sentence . . . to promote rehabilitation").





n62  131 S. Ct. 1910, 1944-47 (2011).





n63  See, e.g., PAUL BUTLER, LET'S GET FREE: A HIP-Hop THEORY OF JUSTICE 23-40
(2009) (citing studies exploring harms associated with high levels of
incarceration); Dorothy E. Roberts, The Social and Moral Cost of Mass
Incarceration in African American Communities, 56 STAN. L. REV. 1271, 1281-97
(2004) (citing and discussing scholarship focused on incarceration-related
harms).





n64  Perhaps most prominently, the right-wing criminal law reform campaign,
"Right on Crime," is committed to markedly reducing reliance on incarceration.
See, e.g., Savage, supra note 2.





n65  See Bosworth, supra note 43, at 336; see also ANGELA Y. DAVIS, ARE PRISONS
OBSOLETE? 21 (2003) ("The most difficult and urgent challenge today is that of
creatively exploring new terrains of justice, where the prison no longer serves
as our major anchor.").





n66  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 9; see also NOLAN, supra note 10, at
134. Although addiction itself cannot be criminalized, coerced treatment may
serve as a response to conviction for possession of narcotics in lieu of a jail
or prison sentence. See Robinson v. California, 370 U.S. 660, 667 (1962)
(holding unconstitutional a California statute criminalizing narcotics addiction
as cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth and Fourteenth
Amendments). But see Powell v. Texas, 392 U.S. 514, 532-33 (1968) (plurality
opinion) (holding that the Texas statute rendering public intoxication criminal
did not constitute cruel and unusual punishment). The Nixon Administration's
Treatment Alternatives to Street Crime (TASC) program, a predecessor to the drug
court movement, also provided for diversion from adjudication to drug treatment.
But TASC differed in that it diverted cases from the courts for treatment,
whereas drug courts generally supervise the treatment process itself. See NOLAN,
supra note 10, at 36.





n67  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 203 n.3.





n68  See ROBERT V. WOLF, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, 'A NEW WAY OF DOING
BUSINESS': A CONVERSATION ABOUT THE STATEWIDE COORDINATION OF PROBLEM-SOLVING
COURTS 12 (2009) [hereinafter WOLF, A NEW WAY] ("[P]ositive evaluations have
generated bipartisan support, allowing [Maryland's] statewide problem-solving
committee to influence public policy . . . ." (paraphrasing Judge Jamey Hueston
of the Maryland Problem-Solving Courts Commission)); ROBERT V. WOLF, CTR. FOR
COURT INNOVATION, NEIGHBORHOOD KNOWLEDGE: COMMUNITY PROSECUTION IN WASHINGTON
D.C. 3-4 (2001) (noting that, during the Clinton administration, Eric Holder,
then deputy attorney general, championed community prosecution); Anthony C.
Thompson, Courting Disorder: Some Thoughts on Community Courts, 10 WASH. U. J.L.
& POL'Y 63, 84-85 (2002) (noting that Republican New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani
introduced certain problem-solving courts as part of a broader order-maintenance
crime control policy); see also America's Oldest War: The Efficacy of United
States Drug Policy, 30 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 401, 411 (2003) ("But we should have
new ideas and support things that work, such as drug courts that have treatment
with accountability for those with addiction problems . . . ." (statement of Asa
Hutchinson, former Republican legislator and then-Administrator of the Drug
Enforcement Administration)); Adriaan Lanni, The Future of Community Justice, 40
HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 359, 369 (2005).





n69  See NOLAN, supra note 10, at 43-44.





n70  See id. at 143.





n71  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 8.





n72  Although many commentators refer to the problem-oriented approach of
specialized criminal courts as "problem-solving justice," I prefer the term
"problem-oriented justice" because most of the relevant "problems" are unlikely
to be "solved" by the courts and because the conceptual origins of this approach
lie in problem-oriented policing. See Greg Berman & Aubrey Fox, The Future of
Problem-Solving Justice: An International Perspective, 10 U. MD. L.J. RACE,
RELIGION, GENDER & CLASS 1 (2010) (exploring the emergence of the rubric of
problem-solving justice and the nature of some of the profound problems the
courts aim to address).





n73  See, e.g., PAMELA M. CASEY & DAVID B. ROTTMAN, NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS,
PROBLEM SOLVING COURTS: MODELS AND TRENDS (2003); JUSTICE POLICY INST., ADDICTED
TO COURTS: HOW A GROWING DEPENDENCE ON DRUG COURTS IMPACTS PEOPLE AND
COMMUNITIES 2 (2011).





n74  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 5 ("[A] case is a problem to be
solved, not just a matter to be adju[di]cated."); GREG BERMAN & JOHN FEINBLATT,
CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS: A BRIEF PRIMER 3 (2001)
("Problem--solving courts use their authority to forge new responses to chronic
social, human and legal problems--including problems like family dysfunction,
addiction, delinquency and domestic violence-that have proven resistant to
conventional solutions."); NOLAN, supra note 10, at 141 ("[T]he issue of
guilt/innocence is not of concern." (quoting Judge McKinney)); Kay L. Levine,
The New Prosecution, 40 WAKE FOREST L. REV. 1125, 1127 (2005) ("Problem-oriented
approaches challenge law enforcement personnel to abandon their traditional
reactive orientations in favor of proactive efforts to solve social problems . .
. ."). Public defenders have also proposed more problem-oriented advocacy,
focusing on "holistic" client-centered defense rather than on victory in a
particular case. See, e.g., Robin Steinberg & David Feige, Cultural Revolution:
Transforming the Public Defender's Office, 29 N.Y.U. REV. L. & SOC. CHANGE 123,
124 (2004).





n75  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 23-24.





n76  Criminal law reformers convened specialized criminal courts as thousands of
new cases entered the system. The greatest increase in case filings was in the
area of domestic relations where, between 1984 and 1998, cases increased by
seventy-five percent. These increases were caused in part by expanding criminal
law enforcement, which resulted in more police officers and more cases went
forward due to expanded prosecutorial funding and "'no-drop' prosecution
policies." See id. at 23-26.





n77  See Eric Lane, Due Process and Problem-Solving Courts, 30 FORDHAM URB. L.J.
955, 955-56 (2003) (quoting Justice Kathleen A. Blatz of Minnesota's Supreme
Court and citing BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 74). The Honorable Jonathan
Lippman, Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals, has likewise described
New York's specialized criminal courts as "a judicially-created, statewide
architecture." Jonathan Lippman, How One State Reduced Both Crime and
Incarceration, 38 HOFSTRA L. REV. 1045, 1053 (2010).





n78  See, e.g., CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, www.courtinnovation.org.





n79  Pub. L. No. 106-515, 114 Stat. 2399 (2000).





n80  See Henry J. Steadman et al., From Referral to Disposition: Case Processing
in Seven Mental Health Courts, 23 BEHAV. SCI. & L. 215, 220 (2005); Shauhin
Talesh, Mental Health Court Judges as Dynamic Risk Managers: A New
Conceptualization of the Role of Judges, 57 DEPAUL L. REV. 93, 112 (2007).





n81  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 18.





n82  See ROBERT V. WOLF, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, REENTRY COURTS: LOOKING
AHEAD 11-12 (2011); Reentry Courts: An Emerging Trend, REENTRY POLICY COUNCIL
(Sept. 20, 2005),
http://reentrypolicy.org/announcements/reentry_courts_emerging_trend.





n83  See Michael Daly Hawkins, Coming Home: Accommodating the Special Needs of
Military Veterans to the Criminal Justice System, 7 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L. 563,
563-70 (2010); William H. McMichael, The Battle on the Home Front: Special
Courts Turn to Those Who Served To Help Troubled Vets Regain Discipline,
Camaraderie, ABA J., Nov. 2011, at 42-48.





n84  See, e.g., Megan McCloskey, Veterans Court Takes a Chance on Violent
Offenders, STARS & STRIPES (Sept. 14, 2010),
http://www.stripes.com/veterans-court-takes-a-chance-on-violent-offenders-1.1181
82; see also Kathleen Kreller, Idaho Court Would Assist Veterans Who Land in the
Legal System in Getting Help--Instead of Hard Time, IDAHO STATESMAN (Apr. 17,
2011),
http://www.idahostatesman.com/2011/04/17/1612614/idaho-considers-veterans-court.
html.





n85  Interview by Carolyn Turgeon with Judge John Leventhal, Brooklyn Felony
Domestic Violence Court (Feb. 2005), available at
http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/judge-john-leventhal-brooklynfelony-dome
stic-violence-court.





n86  When asked what he thought the future of the sex offense courts would be,
Judge James McCarthy of the Oswego County Sex Offense Court replied: "I think
you will find a sex offender court in every county in New York and every state
in this country. Sex offender courts are going to expand because the public
wants to see compliance and monitoring by the criminal justice system of sex
offenders that are in the community." Interview by the Center for Court
Innovation with Judge James McCarthy, Oswego County Sex Offense Court, available
at http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/james-mccarthy-judge-oswego-county.





n87  See, e.g., REBECCA THOMFORDE-HAUSER & JULI ANA GRANT, CTR. FOR COURT
INNOVATION, SEX OFFENSE COURTS: SUPPORTING VICTIM AND COMMUNITY SAFETY THROUGH
COLLABORATION 1-2 (2010); see also LAWRENCE A. GREENFELD, BUREAU OF JUSTICE
STATISTICS, SEX OFFENSES AND OFFENDERS: AN ANALYSIS OF DATA ON RAPE AND SEXUAL
ASSAULT (1997).





n88  See, e.g., Sarah E. Agudo, Comment, Irregular Passion: The
Unconstitutionality and Inefficacy of Sex Offender Residency Laws, 102 NW. U. L.
REV. 307, 308-11 (2008); see also Fourth Amended Complaint, Whitaker v. Perdue,
No. 4:06-cv-140-CC (N.D. Ga. Oct. 14, 2008), available at
http://www.schr.org/files/post/FILED%20FAC.pdf (challenging Georgia's sex
offender registry on behalf of a class of convicted sex offenders, the named
plaintiff of which is twenty eight-year-old Wendy Whitaker, who is on the
registry because at the age of seventeen she engaged in a single consensual act
of oral sex with a fifteen-year-old boy).





n89  See, e.g., THOMFORDE-HAUSER & GRANT, supra note 87, at 5-6.





n90  See Interview by the Center for Court Innovation with Judge James McCarthy,
supra note 86.





n91  A technical violation is a probation or parole rule infraction--such as a
missed curfew, missed probation counseling appointment, or dirty urine
analysis--which does not rise to the level of a criminal offense.





n92  See, e.g., PAUL HIGGINS & MITCHELL B. MACKINEM, PROBLEM-SOLVING COURTS:
JUSTICE FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY? at ix (2009).





n93  See, e.g., PORTER ET AL., supra note 7, at 1.





n94  See id.





n95  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 6.





n96  See Dan M. Kahan, The Cognitively Illiberal State, 60 STAN. L. REV. 115,
145-48 (2007) (arguing that law and policy innovations that contain multiple
meanings, or are "expressively overdetermined," are most likely to be taken up).





n97  In contrast to the typology introduced here, political scientist Lawrence
Baum identifies three types of specialized criminal courts: those courts
convened to administer criminal law with (1) more harshness; (2) more lenity
and/or treatment; or (3) both. See BAUM, supra note 6, at 96-97. My analysis
permits closer understanding of the mechanisms that may drive particular
outcomes across different specialized criminal courts.





n98  See, e.g., NOLAN, supra note 7; see also NOLAN, supra note 10.





n99  See, e.g., Hora et al., supra note 12, at 439; Peggy Fulton Hora & William
G. Schma, Therapeutic Jurisprudence, 82 JUDICATURE 8 (1998); David Rottman &
Pamela Casey, Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Emergence of Problem-Solving
Courts, NAT'L INST. JUST. J., July 1999, at 12, 14-15.





n100  See Bruce J. Winick, The Jurisprudence of Therapeutic Jurisprudence, in
LAW IN A THERAPEUTIC KEY: DEVELOPMENTS IN THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE 645, 648
(David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick eds., 1996).





n101  Bruce J. Winick, Panel Remarks, The Changing Face of Justice: The
Evolution of Problem Solving, 29 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 1809, 1809 (2002).





n102  See JAMES L. NOLAN, JR., THE THERAPEUTIC STATE: JUSTIFYING GOVERNMENT AT
CENTURY'S END 80-83 (1998).





n103  See, e.g., E. Lea Johnston, Theorizing Mental Health Courts, 89 WASH. U.
L. REV. (forthcoming 2012).





n104  The rehabilitative model "fell into disfavor" because "it produced serious
disparities in the sentences imposed on similarly situated defendants" and
because many came to believe "that the system's attempt to achieve
rehabilitation of offenders had failed." See Tapia v. United States, 131 S. Ct.
2382, 2387 (2011) (quoting Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 365-66
(1989)) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n105  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 9; see also id. at 34-35.





n106  See Judith Resnik, Managerial Judges, 96 HARV. L. REV. 374, 376 (1982)
("[J]udges are not supposed to have an involvement or interest in the
controversies they adjudicate. Disengagement and dispassion supposedly enable
judges to decide cases fairly and impartially.").





n107  Christopher Bruell, Sex Offender Courts: Implications for the Future
(paper presented at the annual meeting of the American Society of Criminology
(ASC), Los Angeles Convention Center, Los Angeles, California, Nov. 1, 2006)
(summary available at
http://citation.allacademic.com/meta/p127257_index.html?PHPSESSID=e4d700de960ebe
2892f7e9570253eca9) ("[I]t seems reasonable to believe that we should create and
utilize specialized sex offender courts, which can address sex offenders'
underlying addictions through treatment and graduated levels of community
supervision. These specialized sex offender courts should be based upon the
therapeutic jurisprudence approach used in drug courts and other problem-solving
courts.").





n108  Author's Notes, observation of D.C. Mental Health Diversion Court, July 6,
2011 (afternoon session) (on file with author).





n109  See id.





n110  See, e.g., STANLEY COHEN, VISIONS OF SOCIAL CONTROL: CRIME, PUNISHMENT,
AND CLASSIFICATION (1985) (exploring, in one of the first studies of its kind,
how development of criminal law administrative alternatives may produce a
widening "net" of penal control); see also Joel Gross, Note, The Effects of
Net-Widening on Minority and Indigent Drug Offenders: A Critique of Drug Courts,
10 U. MD. L.J. RACE, RELIGION, GENDER & CLASS 161, 162 (2010).





n111  See, e.g., LAWRENCE M. FRIEDMAN, CRIME AND PUNISHMENT IN AMERICAN HISTORY
6 (1993).





n112  See Guyora Binder, Punishment Theory: Moral or Political?, 5 BUFF. CRIM.
L. REV. 321, 321 (2002).





n113  See Ira Glass, Very Tough Love, THIS AM. LIFE (Mar. 25, 2011),
http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/430/transcript.





n114  See id. Judge Amanda Williams has challenged this characterization of her
court on a number of different grounds. See, e.g., Press Release, Georgia Judge
Rebuts Public Radio Story on Drug Court, (Apr. 14, 2011), available at
http://www.atlawblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/Williams-Rebuts-Glass-Press-
Release-April-14-2011.pdf. In response, attorneys for "This American Life"
maintain the basic accuracy of the program's account of the Glynn County,
Georgia Drug Court, and Judge Williams has subsequently retired after facing
state disciplinary charges. See Letter from Michael M. Conway, Foley & Lardner
LLP, to Prof. David G. Oedel, Mercer Univ. Law Sch. (Apr. 15, 2011), available
at
http://www.thisamericanlife.org/sites/default/files/Foley_response_to_Oedel_Apri
l_15_2011.pdf; Martha Neil, Longtime Ga. Judge Facing Disciplinary Case After
'This American Life' Broadcast Will Retire, ABA JOURNAL (Dec. 20, 2011, 5:28
PM),
http://www.abajournal.com/mobile/article/longtime_ga._judge_facing_disciplinary_
case_following_this_american_li/.





n115  See Glass, supra note 113.





n116  See id.





n117  See id.





n118  See id.





n119  See id.





n120  Even if portions of the widely-reported account of Judge Williams' drug
court are particularly egregious and unusual, the question the report raises
remains: that is, whether a court configured on a non-adversarial,
anti-formalist, psychotherapeutic model with largely unconstrained judicial
discretion poses the inherent risk of the sorts of outcomes attributed to the
Glynn County, Georgia Drug Court. This Article does not purport to identify any
definite outcomes that will necessarily follow from courts adopting a
therapeutic jurisprudence model but rather aims to develop a critical
theoretical framework within which to think about the possibilities and perils
of variously configured specialized criminal courts.





n121  See, e.g., JOSHUA DRESSLER, CASES AND MATERIALS ON CRIMINAL LAW 30-48 (5th
ed. 2009).





n122  Compare the purely therapeutic judicial orientation to the composite
sentencing approach provided for under the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, Pub.
L. No. 98-473, ch. 2, according to which a federal sentencing judge is required
to:


     [C]onsider . . . (2) the need for the sentence imposed (A) to reflect
     the seriousness of the offense, to promote respect for the law, and to
     provide just punishment for the offense; (B) to afford adequate
     deterrence to criminal conduct; (C) to protect the public from further
     crimes of the defendant; and (D) to provide the defendant with needed
     educational or vocational training, medical care, or other
     correctional treatment in the most effective manner.


18 U.S.C. § 3553(a) (2006). As the U.S. Supreme Court explained in Tapia v.
United States: "These four considerations--retribution, deterrence,
incapacitation, and rehabilitation--are the four purposes of sentencing
generally, and a court must fashion a sentence to achieve these purposes . . .
." 131 S. Ct. 2382, 2387 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n123  See, e.g., Louis Michael Seidman, Soldiers, Martyrs, and Criminals:
Utilitarian Theory and the Problem of Crime Control, 94 YALE L.J. 315, 346-48
(1984) (examining how, in order to deter, criminal sanctions must also
communicate moral blame, necessarily intertwining utilitarian and retributive
approaches to punishment).





n124  See Richard C. Boldt, The "Tomahawk" and the "Healing Balm": Drug
Treatment Courts in Theory and Practice, 10 U. MD. L.J. RACE, RELIGION, GENDER &
CLASS 45, 65 (2010) (noting that "[under] treatment/punishment hybrids . . .
therapeutic impulses tend to collapse into punitive practices").





n125  See Hora et al., supra note 12, at 469-70.





n126  See Bozza, supra note 8, at 141-42.





n127  National research indicates that approximately three out of every four
arrestees in large cities test positive for drugs at the point of arrest. See
John Feinblatt et al., Judicial Innovation at the Crossroads: The Future of
Problem-Solving Courts, CT. MANAGER, Summer 2000, at 28, 29.





n128  See Lisa Shoaf, A Case Study of the Akron Mental Health Court, 32 CAP. U.
L. REV. 975, 995 (2004).





n129  See John E. Cummings, Comment, The Cost of Crazy: How Therapeutic
Jurisprudence and Mental Health Courts Lower Incarceration Costs, Reduce
Recidivism, and Improve Public Safety, 56 LOY. L. REV. 279, 281 (2010) (citing
telephone interview with Hon. Arthur L. Hunter, Jr., Chief Judge, Orleans Parish
Criminal District Court and Presiding Judge of the Louisiana Mental Health Court
(Mar. 31, 2009)).





n130  Foreshadowing this concern, C.S. Lewis, an early liberal critic of
rehabilitative sentencing, cautioned against a system of criminal punishment in
which


     only the psychotherapist can tell us what is likely to cure. It will
     be in vain for the rest of us, speaking simply as men, to say, "but
     this punishment is hideously unjust, hideously disproportionate to the
     criminal's deserts." The experts with perfect logic will reply, "but
     nobody was talking about deserts. No one was talking about punishment
     in your archaic vindictive sense of the word. Here are the statistics
     proving that this treatment deters. Here are the statistics proving
     that this other treatment cures. What is your trouble?"


C.S. Lewis, The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment, reprinted in 6 RES JUDICATAE
224, 226 (1953); see also Candace McCoy, Commentary, The Politics of
Problem-Solving: An Overview of the Origins and Development of Therapeutic
Courts, 40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1513, 1513-17 (2003) (discussing the tension and
potential conflict between the rehabilitative and coercive elements present in
juvenile justice administration).





n131  See James L. Nolan, Jr., Redefining Criminal Courts: Problem-Solving and
the Meaning of Justice, 40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1541, 1562 (2003) (quoting an
unidentified judge).





n132  See, e.g., DONALD J. FAROLE, JR. & AMANDA B. CISSNER, CTR. FOR COURT
INNOVATION, SEEING EYE TO EYE?: PARTICIPANT AND STAFF PERSPECTIVES ON DRUG
COURTS 1 (2005) ("[D]rug courts have been somewhat less successful in reducing
incarceration time. Although those who complete the program spend substantially
less time in prison than traditionally prosecuted cases, the relatively lengthy
sentences for those who do not complete, combined with programs' use of
short-term incarceration as a sanction for noncompliant participant behavior,
render the overall time incarcerated only slightly lower than that of comparable
non-drug court defendants." (citation omitted)). But see DOUGLAS B. MARLOWE &
WILLIAM G. MEYER, NAT'L DRUG COURT INST., THE DRUG COURT JUDICIAL BENCHBOOK
36-37 (2011) (recommending that incarceration should only be used as a
last-resort sanction).





n133  See FAROLE & CISSNER, supra note 132.





n134  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 9.





n135  See, e.g., Key Facts at a Glance: Correctional Populations, BUREAU OF
JUSTICE STATISTICS, http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/tables/corr2tab.cfm
(reflecting the disproportionately large number of individuals sentenced to
probation, as compared to prison or jail, in the United States from 1980 to
2009) (last revised Feb. 12, 2012).





n136  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 21.





n137  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 19.





n138  See Interview by Center for Court Innovation with Judge James McCarthy,
supra note 86.





n139  See, e.g., Glass, supra note 113.





n140  Joan Petersilia, A Decade of Experimenting With Intermediate Sanctions
What Have We Learned?, FED. PROBATION, Dec. 1998, at 3, 5.





n141  See, e.g., ZACHARY HAMILTON, CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, DO REENTRY COURTS
REDUCE RECIDIVISM?: RESULTS FROM THE HARLEM PAROLE REENTRY COURT 4 (2010).





n142  See Nolan, supra note 17, at 32.





n143  See, e.g., supra notes 137-38 and accompanying text.





n144  To the extent reduced cost is a concern, judicial monitoring is more
resource intensive than probation or parole supervision as it relies on
relatively higher paid judges supervising relatively smaller case loads.





n145  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 103 ("By handling all felony cases
from the borough in a single courtroom, the court was designed to develop a
focused expertise in domestic violence.").





n146  See MELISSA LABRIOLA ET AL., CTR. FOR COURT INNOVATION, TESTING THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF BATTERER PROGRAMS AND JUDICIAL MONITORING 15-21 (2005)
(describing research methodology).





n147  Id. at 41-42; see also id. at 62 ("We anticipated that monitoring would
suppress recidivism, at least during the monitoring period itself. But judicial
monitoring had no more impact on re-offending than did batterer programs: When
we compared the offenders in our randomized trial--all of whom were
monitored--to a matched group of offenders who pled to violations and were
sentenced to a conditional discharge without monitoring, we found no differences
in nearly all re-arrest measures.").





n148  See id. But see Catherine Shaffer, Therapeutic Domestic Violence Courts:
An Efficient Approach to Adjudication?, 27 SEATTLE U. L. REV. 981, 995-96 (2004)
(reporting other studies of domestic violence batterer treatment programs that
demonstrated evidence of reduced recidivism).





n149  Similar concerns about the soundness of court monitoring and intervention
applies in the drug court context: some evaluations of drug courts show that
drug court monitoring and treatment achieve outcomes no better than traditional
in-community treatment, and other evaluations claim reduced recidivism but
suffer from significant methodological problems. See, e.g., Candace McCoy, Do
Drug Courts Work? For What, Compared to What? Qualitative Results from a Natural
Experiment, 5 VICTIMS & OFFENDERS 64 (2010) (exploring methodological problems
with drug court studies and analyzing natural experiment suggesting that drug
courts achieve outcomes equivalent to traditional in-community treatment).





n150  See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 29.





n151  See id.





n152  Petersilia, supra note 140, at 6; see also Joan Petersilia & Susan Turner,
Intensive Probation and Parole, 17 CRIME & JUST. 281, 311 (1993) (finding that,
in a study of ISP participants, "an average of 65 percent of the ISP clients
experience[d] a technical violation compared with 38 percent of the controls").





n153  In judicial monitoring courts, even before adjudication, defendants are
routinely subject to intensive supervision and mandatory treatment with the only
alternative being incarceration. This arrangement raises double jeopardy
concerns, among other problems: insofar as the preadjudication monitoring is
punitive in purpose, it effectively may lead to imposition of double punishment,
once preadjudication and subsequently postadjudication. See generally Deborah
Epstein, Procedural Justice: Tempering the State's Response to Domestic Violence
, 43 WM. & MARY L. REV. 1843 (2002) (explaining how social psychological
findings regarding perceptions of legitimacy and legal compliance indicate that
procedural justice may be important to reducing the incidence of domestic
violence recidivism and, hence, domestic violence court monitoring should attend
to this variable in determining court interventions).





n154  See Lo[#xEF]c Wacquant, Prisoner Reentry as Myth and Ceremony, 34
DIALECTICAL ANTHROPOLOGY 605, 616 (2010) (explaining how monitoring, along with
other community supervision programs, may extend the scope of criminal
supervision without offering any means to counteract the pressures toward
technical noncompliance and criminal offending that abound in under-resourced
neighborhoods). But see ANGELA HAWKEN & MARK KLEIMAN, MANAGING DRUG INVOLVED
PROBATIONERS WITH SWIFT AND CERTAIN SANCTIONS: EVALUATING HAWAII'S HOPE (2009),
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/229023.pdf (evaluating favorably
probation monitoring and flash incarceration intensive supervision program for
drug offenders in Hawaii for its reduction of reliance on prison sentencing for
high-risk drug offenders relative to less intensively surveillant conventional
supervision). It is worth noting that Project HOPE is a probation supervision,
as distinct from a specialized courts, regime, and, while Hawken and Kleiman's
study suggests HOPE probation may be preferable to the dysfunctional status quo
in conventional drug probation and parole, it is still heavily reliant on
incarceration and intensive criminal surveillance. See id.





n155  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 4.





n156  See id.





n157  Professor Bernard Harcourt powerfully criticizes this hypothesis, refuting
the oft-cited bases of empirical support for the theory and raising foundational
theoretical and empirical questions regarding broken windows policing. As
Harcourt explains in summary:


     First, the quality-of-life initiative may create the category of the
     disorderly. Second, the category of the disorderly may facilitate a
     policy of aggressive arrests, with the possibility of attendant
     brutality, even though such a policy is unlikely to have the slightest
     effect on crime rates. Third, the interplay of the norm of orderliness
     (discipline) and the ideals of justice (law) may succeed in blinding
     us to the disorder that accompanies the quality-of-life initiative.


Bernard E. Harcourt, Reflecting on the Subject: A Critique of the Social
Influence Conception of Deterrence, the Broken Windows Theory, and
Order-Maintenance Policing New York Style, 97 MICH. L. REV. 291, 368 (1998); see
also BERNARD E. HARCOURT, ILLUSION OF ORDER: THE FALSE PROMISE OF BROKEN WINDOWS
POLICING (2001).





n158  But see Harcourt, supra note 157, at 292-94.





n159  See, e.g., Victoria Malkin, Community Courts and the Process of
Accountability: Consensus and Conflict at the Red Hook Community Justice Center,
40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1573, 1574 (2003) ("[T]he unifying feature of these
community courts is their preoccupation with the 'quality of life' in local
neighborhoods.").





n160  See, e.g., BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 62.





n161  See generally MICHELE SVIRIDOFF ET AL., DISPENSING JUSTICE LOCALLY: THE
IMPLEMENTATION AND EFFECTS OF THE MIDTOWN COMMUNITY COURT (2000).





n162  See id.





n163  See id. at 129 ("[A]ll else being equal, petit larceny cases at Midtown
receive[d] jail sentences that [were] 31 days longer than similar cases Downtown
[at the main criminal courthouse], and . . . jail sentences for prostitution
cases tended to be longer at Midtown than Downtown.").





n164  Robert Victor Wolf, New Strategies for an Old Profession: A Court and a
Community Combat a Streetwalking Epidemic, 22 JUST. SYS. J. 347, 355 (2001).





n165  See SVIRIDOFF ET AL., supra note 161, at 129. As an aside, to the extent
that more vigorous enforcement of particular quality-of-life offenses, such as
prostitution, in one discrete area aims to eliminate that conduct (whether by
improving offenders' perceptions of legitimacy or otherwise), it is equally
likely that the undesired conduct will just be pushed to a different (not
necessarily distant) location. Further, all too often courts administering
specialized criminal law recognize the broader web of the problem at
stake--whether prostitution or shoplifting--but focus exclusively on an
individual's addiction or other personal issues that may be impossible to
meaningfully address without attending to background conditions that inform the
personal problems. See generally Jeffrey Fagan & Victoria Malkin, Theorizing
Community Justice Through Community Courts, 30 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 897, 948-49
(2003) ("Although originally designed to provide a creative and rich mix of
social and rehabilitative services to citizens with a variety of legal
entanglements and social problems living in a disadvantaged neighborhood the Red
Hook Community Justice Center relies heavily on drug treatment to address
residents' complex personal problems that do not easily fall into a simplified
medical treatment paradigm. Despite its notable achievements . . . the Justice
Center remains focused on milling the neighborhood's 'disorderly'--the
loiterers, the publicly intoxicated--into drug treatment of uncertain
effectiveness.").





n166  See Author's Site Visit Notes, Midtown Community Court, September 2011 (on
file with author).





n167  NORVAL MORRIS & MICHAEL TONRY, BETWEEN PRISON AND PROBATION: INTERMEDIATE
PUNISHMENTS IN A RATIONAL SENTENCING SYSTEM 225 (1990).





n168  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 72.





n169  See id.





n170  CLARKE, supra note 59, at 1-2.





n171  See id. at 6.





n172  See id. at 8-9; see also Klingele et al., supra note 59, at 975-76.





n173  Likewise, much auto theft may be prevented through straightforward changes
by auto manufacturers. See Ronald V. Clarke & Patricia M. Harris, Auto Theft and
Its Prevention, 16 CRIME & JUST. 1, 37 (1992). To provide another related
example of this approach, in Portland, Oregon, residents concerned about
open-air drug dealing in a local park turned on the park's sprinklers
periodically throughout the day, and it worked to disperse the drug dealing. As
one prosecutor related: "No expenditure of police or prosecutor resources, the
problem is solved, and all we did was water the lawn." See Klingele, et al.,
supra note 59, at 966 (citing AM. PROSECUTORS RESEARCH INST., UNWELCOME GUESTS:
A COMMUNITY PROSECUTION APPROACH TO STREET LEVEL DRUG DEALING AND PROSTITUTION 1
(2004) (quoting Multnomah County Deputy District Attorney Wayne Pearson)). Drug
transactions in Portland surely did not cease, but they shifted location and
that may be all that can be expected of crime control interventions of any kind.
See, e.g., Neal Kumar Katyal, Deterrence's Difficulty, 95 MICH. L. REV. 2385,
2392-97 (1997) (exploring how criminal law's deterrent effect may often lead to
substitution of one offense for another or displacement of crime rather than its
elimination).





n174  See Morris B. Hoffman, Commentary, The Drug Court Scandal, 78 N.C. L. REV.
1437, 1502 (2000).





n175  See Morris B. Hoffman, Commentary, A Neo-Retributionist Concurs with
Professor Nolan, 40 AM. CRIM. L. REV. 1567, 1567 (2003). But see Sue Lindsay,
City Resurrects Drug Court: Supporters Tout New Strategies To Avoid System's
Past Failures, ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS, Jan. 15, 2007,
http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-157582096.html.





n176  Alex Calabrese, Presiding Judge, Red Hook Community Justice Center, Speech
delivered at London, England (July 7, 2003) (quoted in BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra
note 7, at 16).





n177  See, e.g., Dan M. Kahan & Tracey L. Meares, Foreword, The Coming Crisis of
Criminal Procedure, 86 GEO. L.J. 1153, 1173-77 (1998); Tracey L. Meares & Dan M.
Kahan, Law and (Norms of) Order in the Inner City, 32 LAW & SOC'Y REV. 805, 832
(1998) ("When inner-city residents can choose for themselves the law enforcement
policies that will work for them, crime is reduced through community
empowerment.");William J. Stuntz, Unequal Justice, 121 HARV. L. REV. 1969, 1974
(2008).





n178  See Fagan & Malkin, supra note 165, at 943-47; Lanni, supra note 68, at
381; Malkin, supra note 159, at 1585-86.





n179  As one supporter of the Portland Community Court remarked, "Now people are
buying property, and when you own property, you care about it. . . . Now we feel
like we can really invest in a home here." BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at
82 & 207 nn. 16-17 (citing Voice from the Neighborhood, Community Court
Reporter, Portland Oregon Community Court, June 2001 (quoting Susan Cox,
resident of Southeast Portland)). The most vocal supporters of the Midtown
Community Court in Manhattan are likewise those local residents whose real
estate assets benefitted considerably from the gentrification enabled by order
maintenance policing. See, e.g., Midtown Community Court Video, CTR. FOR COURT
INNOVATION,
http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/midtown-community-court-video (last
visited Mar. 9, 2012); see also Robert Weisberg, Restorative Justice and the
Danger of "Community," 2003 UTAH L. REV. 343 (examining some of the potential
threats of the invocation of the term "community").





n180  It is beyond the scope of this Article to address the complicated
relationship between order maintenance, social welfare, and gentrification. My
more limited suggestion here is that, regardless of one's views on these
matters, there is considerable reason to doubt that order maintenance
specialized criminal law administration revitalizes local democratic criminal
law decision making, as these processes appear to be controlled by a small but
vocal and economically influential minority.





n181  See Gartner et al., supra note 53, at 293-94.





n182  JAMES AUSTIN ET AL., JFA INST., UNLOCKING AMERICA: WHY AND HOW TO REDUCE
AMERICA'S PRISON POPULATION 7 (2007).





n183  See, e.g., Gartner et al., supra note 53, at 313.





n184  See, e.g., Luna, supra note 28, at 719 ("As a rule, lawmakers have a
strong incentive to add new offenses and enhanced penalties, which offer
ready-made publicity stunts, but face no countervailing political pressure to
scale back the criminal justice system."); Paul H. Robinson & Michael T. Cahill,
Can a Model Penal Code Second Save the States from Themselves?, 1 OHIO ST. J.
CRIM. L. 169, 169-73 (2003) (critically examining the expansion of criminal
codes and the difficulty of retreating from this pattern through legislative
repeals); Stuntz, supra note 2, at 510, 515; see also WILLIAM J. STUNTZ, THE
COLLAPSE OF AMERICAN CRIMINAL JUSTICE (2011).





n185  See, e.g., Barbara E. Armacost, Organizational Culture and Police
Misconduct, 72 GEO. WASH. L. REV. 453, 519 (2004) (discussing how police
organizations, not unlike other bureaucracies, are inclined to assess success
quantitatively by arrest and citation numbers rather than by qualitative
assessments); Steven A. Drizin & Beth A. Colgan, Let the Cameras Roll: Mandatory
Videotaping of Interrogations Is the Solution to Illinois' Problem of False
Confessions, 32 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 337, 347-48 n.46 (2001) (noting that
conviction percentages influence election and promotion in state prosecutors'
offices).





n186  See Gartner et al., supra note 53, at 313-19.





n187  See, e.g., NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS, THE NCSC SENTENCING ATTITUDES
SURVEY: A REPORT ON THE FINDINGS 5 (2006) (reporting that over eighty percent of
persons surveyed in representative national telephone survey supported
alternative non-carceral sentencing "often" or "sometimes" for nonviolent
cases).





n188  See, e.g., ROSSMAN ET AL., supra note 12, at 1-10, 165, 169, 262-65
(examining, in multi-site study of drug courts, certain features of courts that
correspond to a decarceration model, including organization of specialized
courts as clearinghouses for social service resources and empirical monitoring).





n189  See, e.g., Interview by Carolyn Turgeon with Judge Matthew J. D'Emic,
Brooklyn Mental Health Court (June 2004), available at
http://www.courtinnovation.org/research/matthew-j-demic-brooklyn-mental-health-c
ourt?mode=889&url=research%2F889%2Finterview ("Initially we were set up to
handle exclusively non-violent felonies, but that changed and we do take some
violent felons . . . .").





n190  Although only approximately seventeen percent of the crimes for which
individuals are arrested are either violent or property crimes, roughly
seventy-one percent of people incarcerated in state prisons have been convicted
of violent or property crimes. Compare Uniform Crime Reports, Crime in the
United States 2010: Arrests, FED. BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/crime-in-the-u.s/2010/crime-in-the-u.s.-201
0/persons-arrested (last visited Mar. 20, 2012), with HEATHER C. WEST & WILLIAM
J. SABOL, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS, BULLETIN: PRISONERS IN 2009, at 7 tbl.7
(2010).





n191  See ROBERT J. SAMPSON, GREAT AMERICAN CITY: CHICAGO AND THE ENDURING
NEIGHBORHOOD EFFECT 22 (2012) ("[N]eighborhoods are not merely settings in which
individuals act out the dramas produced by autonomous and preset scripts . . .
but are important determinants of the quantity and quality of human behavior in
their own right."); id. at 423 ("[E]ven the worst-off communities command human
assets and organizational potential that have not been fully harnessed. In fact
. . . disadvantaged communities sometimes have rather high levels of
other-regarding behavior and latent collective efficacy that are otherwise
suppressed by the cumulative disadvantages built up after repeated everyday
challenges."). In a study comparing the lives of former juvenile offenders
(discussed in further detail infra notes 192-97 and accompanying text),
sociologist Robert Sampson and criminologist John Laub found that:


     The majority of men we interviewed desisted from crime largely because
     they were able to capitalize on key structural and situational
     circumstances. They often selected these structural and situational
     circumstances (for example, they decided to get married, get that job,
     hang out with those friends), but those institutions and relations in
     turn influenced the men as well. . . . Men who desisted from crime
     were embedded in structured routines, socially bonded to . . . others
     . . . and were virtually and directly supervised and monitored. In
     other words, structures, situations, and persons offered nurturing and
     informal social control that facilitated the process of desistance
     from crime. . . .
     . . . .
     . . . Generally, the persistent offenders we interviewed experienced
     residential instability . . . job instability . . . and relatively
     long periods of incarceration. Except when in prison or jail, they
     were 'social nomads,' to use Foucault's term.


JOHN H. LAUB & ROBERT J. SAMPSON, SHARED BEGINNINGS, DIVERGENT LIVES: DELINQUENT
BOYS TO AGE 70, at 279-80 (2003) (citations omitted). A distinct theoretical
approach, which Professor Mary D. Fan has called "rehabilitation pragmatism,"
shares some significant features in common with a decarceration approach. The
difference between rehabilitation pragmatism and conventional rehabilitation is
that the rehabilitative intervention is not undertaken for the benefit of the
individual defendant but instead in the public interest to improve safety and
reduce costs, with reliance on empirical data in selecting defendants who are
more likely to succeed. See Fan, supra note 48, at 45-56; see also Jessica S.
Henry, The Second Chance Act of 2007, CRIM. L. BULL., Summer 2009, at art. 3
("Rehabilitation, with an eye to reentry, has been repackaged, not as way to
improve the individual offender for his or her own sake, but rather as a way to
improve public safety for all of society."); Joan Petersilia, California's
Correctional Paradox of Excess and Deprivation, 37 CRIME & JUST. 207, 212 (2008)
("Well-run, well-targeted educational and vocational programs, substance abuse
treatment, cognitive behavioral therapies, and reentry partnerships can reduce
recidivism by 5-30 percent.").





n192  See SHELDON GLUECK & ELEANOR T. GLUECK, UNRAVELING JUVENILE DELIQUENCY
(1950).





n193  See LAUB & SAMPSON, supra note 191.





n194  See id. at 113.





n195  Id. at 114-49.





n196  See id. at 188-90.





n197  It is possible, of course, that the law-abiding men were otherwise
disposed to obtain employment and to establish conventional institutional ties,
and that their social engagements were not the cause of their law-abiding turn.
Instead, their turning points might have been the product of some unidentified
additional factor--moral fortitude or personal perseverance. In other words, it
might be that some other variable besides social institutional involvement is
the critical differentiating characteristic between offenders and nonoffenders,
even if Sampson and Laub were unable to identify such a variable from the
Gluecks' data.





n198  See, e.g., Robert J. Sampson et al., Does Marriage Reduce Crime? A
Counterfactual Approach to Within-Individual Causal Effects, 44 CRIMINOLOGY 465,
465 (2006) (analyzing data that "support[] the inference that states of marriage
causally inhibit crime over the life course"); Robert J. Sampson et al.,
Neighborhoods and Violent Crime: A Multilevel Study of Collective Efficacy, 277
SCIENCE 918, 923 (1997) (finding that a "combined measure of informal social
control and cohesion and trust [was] a robust predictor of lower rates of
violence"); Robert J. Sampson & William Julius Wilson, Toward a Theory of Race,
Crime, and Urban Inequality, in CRIME AND INEQUALITY 37 (John Hagan & Ruth D.
Peterson eds., 1995).





n199  It is widely recognized that reasonable educational opportunities, access
to employment, and informal institutional social controls are associated with
improved public safety. See ARNOLD S. LINKSY & MURRAY A. STRAUS, SOCIAL STRESS
IN THE UNITED STATES: LINKS TO REGIONAL PATTERNS IN CRIME AND ILLNESS (1986).
While incarceration drains resources from these areas, decarceration would make
available resources for these social sectors. But funds devoted to
resource-intensive judicial monitoring, order-maintenance, and therapeutic court
processes are unavailable for educational programs, job training, healthcare,
affordable housing, or other services.





n200  See, e.g., David Friedrichs, Enron et al.: Paradigmatic White Collar Crime
Cases for the New Century, 12 CRITICAL CRIMINOLOGY 113, 119-21 (2004) (examining
the criminal organizational culture of Enron as well as those of other large
corporations, accounting firms, and law firms).





n201  See id. at 114-16.





n202  More generally, a decarceration model would aim to restrict incarceration
over time only to those cases where persons are guilty of crimes so appalling
the public's sense of justice requires it, such as for serial killers; to
matters where the convicted offender's prior criminal history is so extensive
and serious that the risk of release would be too grave to manage; and to those
who, once subject to diversionary sentencing, revealed themselves through
subsequent offending to pose an ongoing threat to others.





n203  See Key Facts at a Glance: State Prison Population by Offense Type,
1980-2006, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/corrtyp.cfm (last revised Mar. 9, 2012)
(reporting that state prison populations as of 2006 consisted of approximately
100,000 persons convicted of public order offenses, over 200,000 persons
convicted of drug offenses, and over 200,000 persons convicted of property
offenses); see also GLAZE, supra note 1, at 1 fig.1; Homicide Trends in the
U.S.: Homicide Victimization 1950-2005, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/homicide/tables/totalstab.cfm (last revised
Mar. 9, 2012); Key Facts at a Glance: Percent of Total Crime Reported to Police,
BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/glance/tables/reportingtypetab.cfm (last
revised Mar. 9, 2012).





n204  See, e.g., Abram Chayes, The Role of the Judge in Public Law Litigation,
89 HARV. L. REV. 1281, 1284 (1976).





n205  See MALCOLM M. FEELEY, COURT REFORM ON TRIAL: WHY SIMPLE SOLUTIONS FAIL
209-10 (1983) (describing the "problem-oriented approach" as one that calls for
"making incremental and unexciting adjustments in the administration of existing
[programs]"). A decarceration model may be understood in this regard as adapting
an approach elaborated by Scandanavian criminologist and political theorist
Thomas Mathiesen, who developed a theory of the unique promise of unfinished
reforms. See THOMAS MATHIESEN, THE POLITICS OF ABOLITION 13-28 (1974). For
Mathiesen, the unfinished alternative emerges when we refuse "to remain silent
concerning that which we cannot [yet] talk about"; in our grasping attempts to
fashion a competing, contradictory, and in that sense new state of affairs, we
"express the unfinished." See id. at 16. A decarceration model adopts precisely
this approach, borrowing the now familiar institutional home of the specialized
criminal court to attempt to direct criminal law administration in different
directions, incrementally, experimentally, with sensitivity to empirical
feedback, and with the overall goal of facilitating a form of social order that
is less reliant on conventional criminal law frameworks and incarceration.





n206  See FEELEY, supra note 205. Dorf and Sabel also underscore that
experimentalist institutions are in an important sense always "unfinished." See
Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 860; see also Michael C. Dorf, Legal
Indeterminacy and Institutional Design, 78 N.Y.U. L. REV. 875, 940 (2003)
(referring to problem-oriented courts as "always a work in progress," and
stating that "the very conditions upon which problem-solving courts insist in
the actors they evaluate--openness and revisability in light of
experience--apply as well to problem-solving courts themselves"). But see Super,
supra note 24 and accompanying text.





n207  See Weisberg & Petersilia, supra note 5, at 126.





n208  Id.





n209  Bernard E. Harcourt, Reducing Mass Incarceration: Lessons from the
Deinstitutionalization of Mental Hospitals in the 1960s, 9 OHIO ST. J. CRIM. L.
53, 87-88 (2011).





n210  See id. at 53-54, 87-88.





n211  Cf. Weisberg, supra note 179, at 363-69 (examining how
deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill in the 1970s was a catastrophe
motivated in part by widely shared but unexamined notions of how gravely
disabled people could be treated "in the community," with little thought devoted
to how such care would actually be administered).





n212  See, e.g., The New Asylums, PUB. BROAD. SERV.,
http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/asylums/view/ (last visited Mar.
9, 2012). Reports suggest that between one fifth to one half of prisoners in the
United States suffer from a serious mental illness. In 2005, a Bureau of Justice
Statistics study found that more than half of the inmate population had a mental
illness. See DORIS J. JAMES & LAUREN E. GLAZE, BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS,
SPECIAL REPORT: MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS OF PRISON AND JAIL INMATES 1 (2006).
Other sources suggest that between sixteen to twenty percent of prisoners in the
United States are seriously mentally ill. See, e.g., Merrill Balassone, Jails,
Prisons Increasingly Taking Care of Mentally Ill, WASH. POST, Jan. 23, 2011,
http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/jails-prisons-increasingly-taking-care-of
-mentally-ill/2011/01/21/ABo3WRJ_story.html.





n213  See, e.g., Stephen Allen, Mental Health Treatment and the Criminal Justice
System, 4 J. HEALTH & BIOMED. L. 153, 161-65 (2008).





n214  Gary Fields, No Way Out: Trapped by Rules, the Mentally Ill Languish in
Prison, WALL ST. J., May 3, 2006,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB114662497280042311.html.





n215  131 S. Ct. 1910, 1924 (2011).





n216  Id. at 1950 app. A.





n217  Id.; see also id. at 1926 ("Mentally ill inmates languished for months, or
even years, without access to necessary care. They suffer from severe
hallucinations, and they decompensate into catatonic states." (alteration
omitted) (quoting Coleman v. Wilson, 912 F. Supp. 1282, 1316 (E.D. Cal. 1995)
(internal quotations marks omitted)).





n218  Talesh, supra note 80, at 119-24.





n219  According to Mental Health Court Judge Patrick Morris:


     A substantial number of these folks are so low functioning that you
     have to reduce your level of expectations. Many are illiterate, and
     when you say, "Go to school," you may mean simply "Go [to] the county
     library and be engaged in a literacy program." What you want to do is
     essentially find a way to occupy them constructively . . . . Re-engage
     them with their family if at all possible . . . so that they have a
     support group out there and a daily activity to go to that's
     meaningful and constructive. And it may be as simple as a volunteer
     position at a homeless shelter . . . but you look for a variety of
     ways to simply help them reconstruct a life that has some meaning to
     it, and that's about all you can do with some of these clients.


Id. at 122 n.191 (citing Interview with Judge Patrick Morris, Satellite
Broadcast of Mental Health Courts, Ctr. for Court Innovation (Nov. 14, 2002)).





n220  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 19.





n221  See, e.g., Matthew J. D'Emic, The Promise of Mental Health Courts:
Brooklyn Criminal Justice System Experiments with Treatment as an Alternative to
Prison, CRIM. JUST., Fall 2007, at 24, 26-27.





n222  See, e.g., Talesh, supra note 80, at 113-15 ("Mental health courts have a
unique, clinically-based risk management model that is routinely updated and
altered and relies on dynamic assessment.").





n223  See, e.g., Shoaf, supra note 128, at 991 ("Jail time is used only when
deemed absolutely necessary, and is usually for a short period of time such as
three, five, or ten days. If the client is eventually terminated from the
program, any jail time served is put towards the remaining time the client may
have on his or her original sentence."); Talesh, supra note 80, at 119 & n.174;
see also Mark A.R. Kleiman, The Outpatient Prison, AM. INT., Spring 2010, at 45
(reporting reduced incarceration and recidivism in Hawaii program that applied
short and certain carceral sanctions to high-risk group of drug addicted
ex-offenders).





n224  See, e.g., Richard D. Schneider, Mental Health Courts, 21 CURRENT OPINION
IN PSYCHIATRY 510, 510-11 (2008) (reporting range of positive outcomes
associated with mental health courts); see also Teresa W. Carns et al.,
Therapeutic Justice in Alaska's Courts, 19 ALASKA L. REV. 1, 28-29 (2002)
(reporting that evaluation of Alaska's mental health court reflected that
participants experienced reduced mental hospital admissions, reduced criminal
justice involvement, and improved housing placement). But see Christine M.
Sarteschi et al., Assessing the Effectiveness of Mental Health Courts: A
Quantitative Review, 39 J. CRIM. JUST. 12 (2011) (reporting findings that
suggest mental health courts are an effective intervention with respect to both
recidivism and clinical outcomes but noting findings are limited by
methodological weaknesses of existing studies); see also Richard J. Bonnie &
John Monahan, From Coercion to Contract: Reframing the Debate on Mandated
Community Treatment for People with Mental Disorders, 29 LAW & HUM. BEHAV. 485,
485 (2005) (analyzing the types and features of mandated community treatment
that are tied to "some form of 'leverage' in which deprivations such as jail or
hospitalization have been avoided, or rewards such as money or housing have been
obtained [by persons with mental disorders], contingent on treatment
adherence").





n225  See, e.g., Dahlia Lithwick, A Separate Peace: Specialized Courts for War
Veterans Work Wonders. But Why Stop at Veterans?, SLATE (Feb. 11, 2010, 1:33
PM),
http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/jurisprudence/2010/02/a_separate
_peace.html.





n226  See Marsha Weissman, Aspiring to the Impracticable: Alternatives to
Incarceration in the Era of Mass Incarceration, 33 N.Y.U. REV. L. & SOC. CHANGE
235, 239-40 (2009) (discussing the need to avoid the dangers of net widening in
implementing alternatives to incarceration programs).





n227  See, e.g., Daniel T. Eismann, Three Branches of Government Working
Together Effectively Have Made Idaho a Leader, THE ADVOCATE: OFFICIAL
PUBLICATION OF THE IDAHO STATE BAR, Sept. 2008, at 12, 12 ("In 2001, the
legislature enacted the Idaho Drug Court Act to provide a statutory framework
for implementing drug courts throughout the state.").





n228  AUSTIN ET AL., supra note 182, at 23. According to the U.S. Department of
Justice, parole violators returned to prison serve eighteen months on average
before being released again. Id. In Louisiana, technical violators serve an
average of twenty months before being re-released. See id.





n229  After the Harlem Parole Reentry Court learned judicial monitoring was
associated with increased reincarceration, it began to shift to something
approaching a decarceration model, seeking to reduce judicial surveillance and
revocation to jail for technical violations. See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 33
("In New York State a policy shift occurred in 2006, resulting in parole
officers making a concerted effort not to revoke parolees based on technical
violations."); see also id. at 30 ("[I]n the days ahead the Reentry Court might
consider exploring alternative responses to technical infractions, such as
increased use of intermediate sanctions in lieu of revocation.").





n230  See, e.g., Quinn, supra note 14, at 68 ("Women's problems frequently are
exacerbated rather than solved by a lack of financial and other support from
their incarcerated partners.").





n231  See, e.g., New Sex Offender Court Being Set Up in Pittsburgh, ASSOCIATED
PRESS, May 4, 2011,
http://www.buffalonews.com/wire-feeds/state/article412890.ece (describing the
goals and design of Pittsburgh's sex offender court).





n232  See, e.g., Amos Tversky & Daniel Kahneman, The Framing of Decisions and
the Psychology of Choice, 211 SCIENCE 453 (1981).





n233  See, e.g., DONALD A. SCHON & MARTIN REIN, FRAME REFLECTION: TOWARD THE
RESOLUTION OF INTRACTABLE POLICY CONTROVERSIES (1994).





n234  See, e.g., Robert D. Benford & David A. Snow, Framing Processes and Social
Movements: An Overview and Assessment, 26 ANN. REV. SOC. 611, 614 (2000).





n235  See, e.g., Amy Kapczynski, The Access to Knowledge Mobilization and the
New Politics of Intellectual Property, 117 YALE L.J. 804, 813-18 (2008).





n236  ERVING GOFFMAN, FRAME ANALYSIS: AN ESSAY ON THE ORGANIZATION OF EXPERIENCE
21 (1974).





n237  See, e.g., Benford & Snow, supra note 234.





n238  See, e.g., Tversky & Kahneman, supra note 232; see also GOFFMAN, supra
note 236.





n239  See RICHARD H. THALER & CASS R. SUNSTEIN, NUDGE: IMPROVING DECISIONS ABOUT
HEALTH, WEALTH, AND HAPPINESS 3-4 (2008).





n240  Another related, though distinct, way to characterize the process of
reframing is in terms of changing or ambiguating social meaning. See, e.g.,
Lawrence Lessig, The Regulation of Social Meaning, 62 U. CHI. L. REV. 943,
1039-42 (1995). According to Lessig:


     [S]ocial meanings . . . are used by individuals, or groups, to advance
     individual or collective ends; and . . . their force in part hangs
     upon their resting upon a certain uncontested, or taken-for-granted,
     background of thought or expectation . . . .
     . . . .
     . . . [Change in social meanings] proceeds by remaking that which is
     taken for granted, and which gives a particular text an unwanted
     meaning. It functions by switching on new associations. This breaking
     up, or remaking, requires effort; it follows from a practice.


See id. at 951, 962.





n241  See John Darley, Realism on Change in Moral Intuitions, 77 U. CHI. L. REV.
1643, 1649 (2010).





n242  Id.





n243  See, e.g., FRIEDMAN, supra note 111, at 10 (discussing the "teaching
function" of U.S. criminal law).





n244  See Mark Kelman, Interpretive Construction in the Substantive Criminal Law
, 33 STAN. L. REV. 591, 592-98 (1981).





n245  See id. at 593-96.





n246  See id.





n247  See, e.g., Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 832.





n248  See Goode, supra note 15.





n249  See id.





n250  See id.





n251  See id.





n252  See id.





n253  DENCKLA & BERMAN, supra note 16, at 17 (emphasis added).





n254  Lippman, supra note 77, at 1055.





n255  NOLAN, supra note 7, at 21 (quoting Judge Deveaux, who presides over an
Atlanta community court).





n256  BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 196 ("There was general agreement
among the judges that taking ideas from problem-solving courts was not only
possible but desirable. They highlighted several things that they had learned
from their time in problem-solving courts--including the value of a
problem-solving mindset, direct interaction with defendants, monitoring
offenders' performance in treatment, and reaching out to social service
providers--that were appropriate for mainstream use . . . ."); see also JUDGING
IN A THERAPEUTIC KEY: THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE AND THE COURTS 87 (Bruce J.
Winick & David B. Wexler eds., 2003) ("[M]any former problem solving court
judges, upon being transferred back to courts of general jurisdiction, have
taken with them the tools and sensitivities they have acquired in those newer
courts.").





n257  See, e.g., D'Emic, supra note 221.





n258  Cf. Sharon Dolovich, Foreword: Incarceration American-Style, 3 HARV. L. &
POL'Y REV. 237, 258 (2009) (examining the link in popular imagination between
safety and incarceration).





n259  See ROSSMAN ET AL., supra note 12, at 1.





n260  See id. at 2-7.





n261  See Drug and Veterans' Treatment Courts: Seeking Cost-Effective Solutions
for Protecting Public Safety and Reducing Recidivism: Hearing Before the
Subcomm. on Crime and Terrorism of the S. Comm. on the Judiciary, 112th Cong.
(2011).





n262  See supra notes 70-71 and accompanying text.





n263  See supra notes 241-42 and accompanying text.





n264  See Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 865-68.





n265  See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 9 ("[T]he judge is responsible for openly
and publicly discussing program requirements, sanctions and their purposes.").





n266  See, e.g., D'Emic, supra note 221.





n267  See BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 87 ("Public defenders, who would
normally object to a client's revealing any extraneous personal information, are
apt to accept these conversations, knowing that encouraging words from an
authority figure like the judge can be extremely helpful to a client struggling
to achieve sobriety."); Tamar M. Meekins, Risky Business: Criminal Specialty
Courts and the Ethical Obligations of the Zealous Criminal Defender, 12 BERKELEY
J. CRIM. L. 75 (2007).





n268  See, e.g., Levine, supra note 74, at 1125 ("I think if you were to ask
most prosecutors what their goals are, they would say: 'My job is to put bad
guys away.' That goal is endorsed by our education and by our culture . . . . If
you were to change the goal slightly . . . that completely changes both the
methods that you use, the partners you choose, and every single aspect of what
you do." (quoting John Feinblatt & Derek Denckla, What Does It Mean To Be a Good
Lawyer?: Prosecutors, Defenders and Problem-Solving Courts, 84 JUDICATURE 206,
209 (2001) (quoting Elizabeth Glazer) (second alteration in original))).





n269  See, e.g., Bruce Western, Reentry: Reversing Mass Imprisonment, BOS. REV.,
July/Aug. 2008.





n270  See id. at 9-10.





n271  See, e.g., Interview by Carolyn Turgeon with Judge John Leventhal, supra
note 85 ("Then we got a grant for a resource coordinator, a position that has
now been institutionalized in the system.").





n272  See HAMILTON, supra note 141, at 11. As a defendant in another specialized
criminal court reported: "It's not over when you get out of this [graduate the
program] . . . . If you needed help or something, or . . . lost your job and you
needed help doing a resume or you needed help finding employment, you can come
back here in this door here and they're going to do anything they can to help
you out." FAROLE & CISSNER, supra note 132, at 7 (alterations in original).





n273  See, e.g., Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 833 ("Unlike traditional courts
of specialized jurisdiction, drug courts are creating the framework for a
pervasive reform of the service providers with whom they collaborate in the very
act of coordinating the services provided.").





n274  Cf. Nicole Santa Cruz & Ashley Powers, Mental Health in Arizona: A Case
Study, L.A. TIMES, Jan. 19, 2011,
http://articles.latimes.com/2011/jan/19/nation/la-na-arizona-mental-health-20110
120 (explaining how services for mentally ill persons have been reduced by $ 2
billion across the country, eliminating 4,000 inpatient beds, and depriving
numerous patients of desired treatment and medication).





n275  See GREENE & MAUER, supra note 3 (examining the fiscal impacts of prison
downscaling).





n276  WOLF, A NEW WAY, supra note 68, at 6.





n277  See Dorf & Sabel, supra note 13, at 839.





n278  WOLF, A NEW WAY, supra note 68, at 10 (quoting Nancy Fishman, Project
Director, Council of State Governments' Justice Center).





n279  Shoaf, supra note 128, at 992.





n280  See Robert Weisberg, Norms and Criminal Law, and the Norms of Criminal Law
Scholarship, 93 J. CRIM. L. & CRIMINOLOGY 467, 589-90 (2003) (citing MERCER L.
SULLIVAN, "GETTING PAID": YOUTH CRIME AND WORK IN THE INNER CITY 226-50 (1989)).





n281  For instance, the relationship between crime and unemployment is
complex--there is no simple crime-unemployment correlation:


     [K]ey is not the employment of the individual, but the density of
     consistent employment in the neighborhood. . . . [I]t is not a
     singular material factor, because it includes, for example, the
     efficacy of local job networks, which distinguish blue collar
     neighborhoods where education rates are not necessarily high. And of
     course distant macroeconomic forces probably affect crime rates,
     factors like the outsourcing of manufacturing . . . [as do] various
     local attitudes that include tolerance, [and] exhaustion or resistance
     in the face of criminal victimization . . . .


Id. (footnote omitted).





n282  See Gardner v. Schwarzenegger, 101 Cal. Rptr. 3d 229, 232 (Cal. Ct. App.
2009) (recounting the history of Proposition 36's passage).





n283  DRUG POLICY ALLIANCE, PROPOSITION 36: IMPROVING LIVES, DELIVERING RESULTS
19 (2006).





n284  See Gardner, 101 Cal. Rptr. 3d at 238-40 (enjoining enforcement of flash
incarceration measures enacted subsequent to the implementation of Proposition
36).





n285  WOLF, A NEW WAY, supra note 68, at 12. One interesting feature of the
systemic shifts instigated by specialized criminal courts in this respect is
that they leave intact criminal prohibitions on certain conduct but facilitate
remarkable lenience with regard to that conduct. In other words, on a
decarceration model, systemic change tending toward decriminalization need not
involve statutory repeals of criminal prohibitions. Instead, the existence of
diversionary courts and the cognitive and institutional shifts they work, adjust
enforcement priorities and make available social service treatment alternatives
while leaving intact the expressive symbolic prohibition in the criminal
statute. This may be a peculiar instance of the sort of acoustic separation that
Professor Meir Dan-Cohen theorized in his famous article on "Decision Rules and
Conduct Rules." See Meir Dan-Cohen, Decision Rules and Conduct Rules: On
Acoustic Separation in Criminal Law, 97 HARV. L. REV. 625 (1984).





n286  Jane M. Spinak, Romancing the Court, 46 FAM. CT. REV. 258, 258-59 (2008);
see also Levine, supra note 74, at 1131 ("By placing social problems inside the
criminal justice framework without changing the fundamental orientation of the
officials charged with addressing these problems, we ensure that the traditional
apparatus of the criminal justice system--conviction, punishment, and
surveillance--will be the only strategies considered by the problem-solvers.").





n287  See Spinak, supra note 286, at 258-60.





n288  See id. at 271.





n289  See id.





n290  Quinn, supra note 14, at 77-78; see also Mae C. Quinn, Revisiting Anna
Moscowitz Kross's Critique of New York City's Women's Court: The Continued
Problem of Solving the "Problem" of Prostitution with Specialized Criminal
Courts, 33 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 665 (2006); Mae C. Quinn, Response, Further
(Ms.)Understanding Legal Realism: Rescuing Judge Anna Moscowitz Kross, 88 TEX.
L. REV. See also 43 (2009).





n291  Quinn, supra note 14, at 79-81; see also MICHAEL WILLRICH, CITY OF COURTS:
SOCIALIZING JUSTICE IN PROGRESSIVE ERA CHICAGO (2003).





n292  Dorf, supra note 206, at 946.





n293  See, e.g., Louis Michael Seidman, Points of Intersection: Discontinuities
at the Junction of Criminal Law and the Regulatory State, 7 J. CONTEMP. LEGAL
ISSUES 97, 160 (1996) (arguing that criminal law is "defined by the practice of
blaming").





n294  See, e.g., Seidman, supra note 123, at 336 ("Our most important collective
institution for teaching through blaming is the criminal law.").





n295  Richard C. Boldt, The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law,
140 U. PA. L. REV. 2245, 2247 (1992).





n296  Id. at 2253; see also Hoffman, supra note 174, at 1477-78 ("[W]e are
judges, not social workers or psychiatrists. We administer the criminal law
because the criminal law is its own social end. It is not, or at least ought not
to be, a means to other social ends.").





n297  See SANFORD H. KADISH, BLAME AND PUNISHMENT: ESSAYS IN THE CRIMINAL LAW
49-53 (1987). Morally neutral criminal laws include regulatory offenses that do
not involve harmful wrongdoing to others as well as some offenses requiring only
vicarious liability or imposing strict liability. See Luna, supra note 28, at
722-23.





n298  NOLAN, supra note 10, at 52.





n299  See id. at 53-54.





n300  See Pettit & Western, supra note 35.





n301  Cf. Freed Inmate Tries To Break Back into Prison, ASSOCIATED PRESS, Sept.
6, 2001,
http://www.seattlepi.com/local/article/Freed-inmate-tries-to-break-back-into-pri
son-1065029.php; Kate Mather, Parolee Arrested Trying To Break Back into
Sacramento Prison, L.A. TIMES, Aug. 12, 2011,
http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/lanow/2011/08/parolee-break-back-into-prison.htm
l.





n302  See Binder, supra note 112, at 356-58 (exploring conditions under which
Kantian theory of punishment would permit justice to be traded for justice and
citing IMMANUEL KANT, METAPHYSICAL ELEMENTS OF JUSTICE 138 (John Ladd trans.,
Hackett Pub. Co. 2d ed. 1999) (1796)).





n303  To the extent that skeptics inclined to a deterrent theory of punishment
may worry that these courts would imperil public safety, there is considerable
evidence that "measures to reduce prison population may actually improve on
public safety because they address the problems that brought people to jail."
Brown v. Plata, 131 S. Ct. 1910, 1942 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).





n304  Dan M. Kahan & Martha C. Nussbaum, Two Conceptions of Emotion in Criminal
Law, 96 COLUM. L. REV. 269, 370-71 (1996).





n305  JACK KATZ, SEDUCTIONS OF CRIME: MORAL AND SENSUAL ATTRACTIONS IN DOING
EVIL 296 (1988).





n306  Because, even if criminal law scholar Paul H. Robinson and his
collaborators are right and there is a "core of agreement" about the relative
wrongness of the most egregious types of criminal offenses, this does not in the
least entail that we know what to do to best respond to the offenses in question
or what to do to address the associated social problems. See Paul H. Robinson &
Robert Kurzban, Concordance and Conflict in Intuitions of Justice, 91 MINN. L.
REV. 1829 (2007); see also Donald Braman, Dan M. Kahan & David A. Hoffman, A
Core of Agreement, 77 U. CHI. L. REV. 1655 (2010).





n307  See, e.g., Lanni, supra note 68, at 383-87.





n308  See, e.g., NAT'L ASS'N OF CRIMINAL DEF. LAWYERS, supra note 14, at 10-13.





n309  Lanni, supra note 68, at 385; see also BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7,
at 86 ("Defenders, who are accustomed to battling prosecutors to get the best
deal for their clients, are often asked to work alongside them as part of a
collaborative team. These cooperative efforts often start on the ground floor
with traditional adversaries working together to design guidelines, eligibility
criteria, and sanctioning schemes. When a drug-court judge hands down a
three-day jail sentence because an addict has failed to attend his treatment
program, defenders are often surprisingly silent, because they--and their
clients--have already accepted the idea of intermediate jail sanctions as part
of the treatment sentence."). Another critical function of criminal courts is to
police the police, and if specialized criminal courts require an expeditious
guilty plea, they make unavailable suppression motions or other motions practice
that may incentivize good police behavior. See Steven Zeidman, Policing the
Police: The Role of the Courts and the Prosecution, 32 FORDHAM URB. L.J. 315
(2005).





n310  Lanni, supra note 68, at 385.





n311  . BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 85.





n312  Nevertheless, to the extent a proceduralist objection focuses on reduced
adversarialism within specialized criminal courts, it is worth bearing in mind
that a pure form of adversarial criminal law administration is incorrectly
assumed to obtain in conventional U.S. criminal courts and, insofar as
adversarial procedures are present, these procedures' desirability relative to
various alternatives remains uncertain. See, e.g., Abraham S. Goldstein,
Reflections on Two Models: Inquisitorial Themes in American Criminal Procedure,
26 STAN. L. REV. 1009, 1019 (1974) ("European criminal procedures are no more
purely inquisitorial than ours are purely [adversarial]."); see also MARVIN E.
FRANKEL, PARTISAN JUSTICE (1980) (critically analyzing adversarial criminal
justice administration and proposing modifications to address significant
problems); LLOYD L. WEINREB, DENIAL OF JUSTICE: CRIMINAL PROCESS IN THE UNITED
STATES (1977) (critiquing U.S. adversarial criminal processes and examining
preferable alternatives); Mirjan Dama[#x0161]ka, Evidentiary Barriers to
Conviction and Two Models of Criminal Procedure: A Comparative Study, 121 U. PA.
L. REV. 506 (1973) (critically examining adversarial criminal procedures
relative to continental alternatives); John H. Langbein & Lloyd L. Weinreb,
Continental Criminal Procedure: "Myth" and Reality, 87 YALE L.J. 1549 (1978)
(analyzing preferable features of inquisitorial as compared to adversarial
criminal procedure models).





n313  See, e.g., State v. Rogers, 170 P.3d 881, 886 (Idaho 2007) (holding that
drug-court-program participant was entitled to due process protections during
proceedings to terminate his participation in the program and incarcerate him).





n314  This solution is not as readily available on a therapeutic jurisprudence
or judicial monitoring model because the theoretical bases of those models turn
on the continuing relationship between the defendant/participant and the judge,
whether that continued relationship emphasizes a presumed therapeutic connection
or deterrent influence. A more general proceduralist concern relates to the
potential role shift for the judge in specialized criminal courts, but on a
decarceration model that role shift is less pronounced than on a therapeutic
jurisprudence or judicial monitoring model.





n315  See ROSSMAN ET AL., supra note 12, at 224.





n316  See, e.g., 730 ILL. COMP. STAT. ANN. 166/35(a)(4) (LexisNexis 2007 & Supp.
2011); see also State v. Bellville, No. 5-476/04-1634, 2005 Iowa App. LEXIS 963,
at *2-7 (Iowa Ct. App. Aug. 31, 2005) (upholding sentence of consecutive jail
terms following revocation of drug court program based on prior plea agreement).





n317  See, e.g., GA. CODE ANN. § 16-13-2(a) (2011). An alternative approach, of
which there is a pilot ongoing in Seattle, takes specialized courts out of the
picture entirely and relies purely on police to divert drug-involved offenders
to treatment providers prior to any criminal charge. See THE DEFENDER
ASSOCIATION, LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTED DIVERSION (LEAD) EVALUATION PANEL (2011)
(on file with author).





n318  See Brady v. United States, 397 U.S. 742, 748 (1970) ("[A] guilty plea is
a grave and solemn act to be accepted only with care and discernment . . . .").





n319  Specialized criminal courts leave the parallel conventional process
undisturbed, with the full panoply of procedural protections in principle
available to defendants there.





n320  See FAROLE & CISSNER, supra note 132, at 5-7 (exploring drug court
participants' reasons for and aspirations in opting into drug court).





n321  A decarceration model takes empiricism and experimentalism seriously,
seeking to engage in a process of internal reform and improvement. This process
is more likely to meaningfully occur on a decarceration model than on a
therapeutic jurisprudence, judicial monitoring, or order maintenance model
because there is not otherwise any commitment to a particular therapeutic,
neo-rehabilitative, deterrence-based, or order maintenance ideology. See Dorf &
Sabel, supra note 13, at 882-83. Dorf and Sabel overestimate the rigors of
self-monitoring and self-reporting in drug courts and specialized criminal
courts generally and neglect the strong incentives for entities to set limited
but readily achievable goals so as to be able to claim success, regardless of
actual outcomes. Further, self-monitoring and self-reporting may be less useful
where the ultimate goal or measure at stake is in dispute, as I have suggested
it often is in specialized criminal courts. But see id. A decarceration model is
primarily concerned with reducing incarceration consistent with maintaining
public safety and so circumvents some of these complications.





n322  See, e.g., Laura Sullivan, Inmates Who Can't Make Bail Face Stark Options,
NAT'L PUB. RADIO (Jan. 22, 2010),
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=122725819&ft=1&3=3
(reporting that more than 500,000 inmates in the United States each year face a
choice between pleading guilty for crimes for which they claim innocence or
remaining incarcerated until a trial date weeks or months later to contest
charges).





n323  Roscoe Pound famously opposed court specialization on similar grounds
because it would tend to result in duplication of function, waste, and
inefficiency. See, e.g., R. Stanley Lowe, Unified Courts in America: The Legacy
of Roscoe Pound, 56 JUDICATURE 316 (1973).





n324  Although specialization is a feature of modern society, courts and judges
have generally constituted an exception to this trend. See BAUM, supra note 6,
at xi-xii. There are, however, numerous specialized courts outside the criminal
context, such as the Tax Court and the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.





n325  All this is not to say that a decarceration approach will necessarily
reduce costs. To meaningfully address the complex social problems driving
overincarceration will be resource-intensive, and specialized courts often rely
on an array of "services that simply don't exist in most criminal courts."
BERMAN & FEINBLATT, supra note 7, at 64.





n326  See JUSTICE POLICY INST., supra note 73, at 23. As Edward P. Mulvey,
delivering the Presidential Address at an American Psychological Association
convention explained: "[T]he courts are being established for groups of
individuals who are seen as 'deserving' of better processing and more
individualized attention from the justice system." Id. (quoting Edward P.
Mulvey, Presidential Address to the American Psychology-Law Society, Division 41
of the American Psychological Association, Mar. 20, 2010).





n327  See Robert V. Wolf, Race, Bias, and Problem-Solving Courts, 21 NAT'L BLACK
L.J. 27, 28-30 (2009).





n328  See Harcourt, supra note 209, at 4, 29-31.





n329  Steadman et al., supra note 80, at 215.





n330  See Justin Driver, Rethinking the Interest-Convergence Thesis, 105 NW. U.
L. REV. 149 (2011) (critically discussing the interest-convergence thesis, which
holds that disadvantaged groups receive favorable judicial treatment to the
extent their interests coincide with the interests of majority group elites).





n331  Chrysanthi S. Leon, Should Courts Solve Problems? Connecting Theory and
Practice, CRIM. L. BULL., Winter 2007, at art. 2.





n332  See, e.g., ALEXANDER, supra note 35.





n333  Of course, it is possible that judges sitting in the specialized court
would adapt a different judicial perspective than when sitting in the
conventional court.





n334  See Bratton Blom et al., supra note 13, at 42 ("All the criticisms of
problem-solving courts--that they violate due process rights, that they fail to
rehabilitate, or that they represent a form of undemocratic reform--apply to the
reality of the court system today.").





n335  See generally MALCOLM M. FEELEY, THE PROCESS IS THE PUNISHMENT: HANDLING
CASES IN A LOWER CRIMINAL COURT (1979).





n336  See id. at 3-4.





n337  ROSCOE POUND, CRIMINAL JUSTICE IN AMERICA 190-91 (Da Capo Press 1972)
(1930).





n338  STEVE BOGIRA, COURTROOM 302: A YEAR BEHIND THE SCENES IN AN AMERICAN
CRIMINAL COURTHOUSE 3, 21-22 (2005).


                               18 of 18 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 26, 2012
                                 First Edition

Crime predicting may come to UK;
POLICE

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 123 words


A pioneering technique to predict crime before it happens could be imported from
the United States, a top British police chief said yesterday.

i reported last week that pilots of the scheme - under which officers are
dispatched to crime hotspots identified by computer - have had early success in
California. The method of "predictive policing" was outlined at a seminar in
London by the US police chief, Capt Sean Malinowski, who has introduced it in a
Los Angeles suburb. Chief Constable Nick Gargan, the chief executive of the
National Policing Improvement Agency, gave a warm welcome to the "exciting
initiative".

He said British officers were monitoring its effectiveness and could deploy it
alongside other methods used by the police.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               1 of 29 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2013 The University of Chicago
                               Crime and Justice

                                      2013

                               Crime and Justice

                              42 Crime & Just. 377

LENGTH: 10473 words

ARTICLE: The Rise of Evidence-Based Policing: Targeting, Testing, and Tracking

NAME: Lawrence W. Sherman

BIO: Lawrence W. Sherman is Wolfson Professor of Criminology at Cambridge
University, a director of the College of Policing (UK), Distinguished University
Professor at the University of Maryland, and director of the Cambridge Police
Executive Programme. He is grateful for comments on earlier drafts by Heather
Strang, Peter Neyroud, Daniel Nagin, Stephen Mastrofski, John Eck, Alex Piquero,
David Weisburd, Lorraine Mazerolle, Cynthia Lum, and Michael Tonry.

HIGHLIGHT: ABSTRACT

Evidence-based policing is a method of making decisions about "what works" in
policing: which practices and strategies accomplish police missions most
cost-effectively. In contrast to basing decisions on theory, assumptions,
tradition, or convention, an evidence-based approach continuously tests
hypotheses with empirical research findings. While research on all aspects of
policing grew substantially in the late twentieth century, the application of
research to police practice intensified in the early twenty-first century,
especially for three tasks that make up the "triple-T" strategy of policing:
targeting, testing, and tracking. Evidence-based targeting requires systematic
ranking and comparison of levels of harm associated with various places, times,
people, and situations that policing can lawfully address. Evidence-based
testing helps assure that police neither increase crime nor waste money.
Tracking whether police are doing what police leaders decide should be done may
grow most rapidly in coming years by the use of GPS records of where police go
and body-worn video records of what happens in encounters with citizens.

TEXT:
 [*377]  Can research help improve democratic policing? For over four decades,
numerous colleagues and I have struggled to answer that question. When we began,
policing was done very differently from how it is  [*378]  done now. In the
years to come, it will be done even more differently. Yet the trajectory of
change is likely to remain consistent: from less research evidence to more and
from lesser to greater use of the evidence available. The 50 years covered in
this volume bear witness to the rise of evidence-based policing in both the
quantity of evidence and its influence on police practices. This essay reports
on my ongoing participant-observation study of these changes, for which I have
tried to be a primary instigator.

   Policing in 1975 was largely delivered in a one-size-fits-all strategy,
sometimes described as the "three Rs": random patrol, rapid response, and
reactive investigations (Berkow 2011). After World War II, random patrols in
police cars were promoted on the theory that police "omnipresence" would deter
crime (Wilson 1950). In the 1960s, the advent of three-digit emergency phone
numbers turned random patrol into an airport-style "holding pattern" for rapid
response, also based on a theory of deterrence, but producing a new theory of
organizational action: Albert J. Reiss's (1971) distinction between reactive and
proactive actions. What police did when they reacted to a citizen call was not
subject to much police agency direction or analysis. The main organizational
requirement was to arrive, do something, and leave as quickly as possible. As
Reiss reported, his 1966 Chicago study found patrol officers spending 14 percent
of their time "reactively" answering such calls and investigating crime, about 1
percent of their time "proactively" stopping people at their own initiative, and
85 percent of their time in unstructured random patrolling. Reactive
investigations, when required, were taken over by detectives, who in theory
investigated all reported crimes but in practice closed most cases as
unsolvable. Cases that were solved relied primarily on the evidence presented to
them by crime victims and the patrol officers who arrived first on the scene
(Greenwood and Petersilia 1975).

   By 1975, the three Rs had become the standard model of urban policing (Skogan
and Frdyl 2004, p. 223) across the United States as well as in the United
Kingdom and other predominantly Anglo-Celtic cultures (e.g., Canada, Australia,
New Zealand). There was almost no targeting of patterns or predictions of crime
or disorder, no testing of what worked best to prevent or solve crimes and
problems, or much tracking and managing of what police were doing, where, when,
and how, in relation to any specific objectives. Most police agencies lacked
computers. The few computers in use in 1975 were mainframes designed  [*379]
for dispatching police cars, not analyzing crime data. Police leaders rarely
discussed crime at all unless a particularly gruesome crime received substantial
publicity.

   By 2012, the three Rs were changing into what I describe in this essay as the
"triple-T" of targeting, testing, and tracking. While the standard model is far
from gone, its resources are increasingly guided by statistical evidence. In the
emerging triple-T strategy, both patrol and detective managers had moved toward
far greater proactive management of police resources. Although these changes are
far more evident in some police agencies than in others, Anglo-Celtic policing
is increasingly targeting scarce resources on evidence of large, predictable,
and harmful statistical patterns rather than on isolated cases (Spelman and Eck
1989). Compared to 1975, these focused police strategies are far more elaborate
and differentiated, choosing from a wider range of priorities and objectives on
the basis of extensive data analysis. Police methods have also become far more
subject to testing, with evaluation and debate over "what works," the core idea
of evidence-based policing (Sherman 1984, 1998). Yet the most evident use of new
statistical evidence is the growth of tracking and managing what police were or
were not doing in relation to the dynamic patterns of crime and public safety
problems.

   Examples of the growth of evidence-based policing abound. They include the US
Supreme Court's citation of research on tests of restrictions on police
shootings (Fyfe 1980, 1982; Sherman 1983), Tennessee v. Garner (471 U.S. 1
[1985]), a decision that fostered a major reduction in police killings of
citizens in the United States (Tennenbaum 1994). Overall reductions in homicide
have been associated with an increased targeting of US police work toward
micro-level crime "hot spots" (Weisburd and Lum 2005; Police Executive Research
Forum 2008; Braga and Weisburd 2010), where research showed that crime is
heavily concentrated (Sherman, Gartin, and Buerger 1989). By 2012,
evidence-based targeting for problem-oriented policing (POP) has, since
Goldstein (1979) first proposed it, gradually become respected as real police
work, not "social work," supported in some agencies with new case management
systems. Crime analysts are more likely to identify repeat crime places,
victims, suspects, situations, and other patterns to support targeting decisions
for patrol, POP, and detectives. Even reactive detective work is more proactive,
police-initiated, in gathering new evidence at crime scenes, using scientific
methods  [*380]  to identify suspects and prove cases (Roman et al. 2009). What
patrol officers do when responding to crime scenes has become more likely to be
a method that has been tested. Where officers are at any moment is more likely
to be tracked by global positioning satellite (GPS) systems generating weekly
management analysis reports.

   The best test of evidence-based policing is whether it has improved public
safety and police legitimacy. There is certainly a correlation over time between
the rise of evidence and a decline in serious crime, in both the United States
and the United Kingdom. Proof that serious crime dropped because of
evidence-based policing, however, is more elusive. There is some micro-level
analysis of the New York City crime drop that offers a greater basis for causal
inference than national trends (Zimring 2012), but it is impossible to rule out
other plausible causes that also match the timing of the crime drop. There is
also a danger that a sharper focus on crime can undermine police legitimacy,
especially since proactive policing is structurally less legitimate than
reactive policing with a personal victim's endorsement (Reiss 1971, p. 11). Yet
there is no evidence that the rise of evidence in policing has caused reductions
in police legitimacy. Indeed, more data about legitimacy have been incorporated
into police management as part of evidence-based tracking than ever before.
Overall, the vast scale of the rise of evidence in policing leaves it without a
fair comparison group, just as it does in medicine (Sagan 1987), leaving
causation unknowable. Still, the macro trends in reduced mortality suggest that
we should celebrate the rise of evidence in both medicine and policing.

   The changes from 1975 to 2012 raise the further question of what Anglo-Celtic
policing will look like by 2025. The answers cannot be predicted just by
extrapolating the trends of four decades, or even--ideally--by a causal model
for prediction (Silver 2012). But by explaining why policing changed as it did
from 1975 to 2012, a forecast using the same causal model can identify a range
of possible scenarios for policing in 2025. Chief among these will be the
possible global influence of the 2012 creation of the first professional body
ever charged by a national government with recommending police practices on the
basis of continuous review of new research evidence on what works: the United
Kingdom's College of Policing (http://www.college.police.uk). This body has
tremendous potential to follow the pathway to innovation Johnson (2010)
associates with such major advances as the printing press, which was inspired by
the wine press: a lateral-thinking  [*381]  style of adaptation of an idea used
in one setting (such as evidence-based medicine) to another (such as
evidence-based policing).

   The Rise of Evidence. The causal model this essay suggests for these changes
is a dynamic system that links external demands on police (to cut crime, cut
costs, or build legitimacy) to research evidence on how to meet those demands,
supported by the increasing availability of innovative technologies. While
external factors drive the availability of both research evidence and
technology, how policing responds depends on a fourth factor: the governmentally
generated human capital of education and police professionalism. The role of
government policies is crucial in setting salaries and recruitment standards
that shape the quality of police skills and creativity in general and of police
leaders in particular. Those human resources are so influential that the entire
causal model can reasonably be said to call for evidence-based professionalism.

   Inside this abstract causal model are many human beings struggling hard for
change: influential leaders of policing, research, and efforts to combine the
two. These include UK Home Secretary R. A. Butler creating a research unit in
1958; future FBI Director Clarence Kelly supporting the Kansas City Patrol
Experiment in 1971 (Kelling et al. 1974); Minneapolis Police Chief Anthony V.
Bouza supporting the first random assignment of arrest in 1981 (Sherman and Berk
1984); criminologist David Weisburd and his colleagues (Weisburd et al. 2004,
2006; Weisburd, Groff, and Yang 2012) analyzing criminal careers of places in
Seattle and Jersey City; New York Police Department (NYPD) Commissioner William
Bratton creating COMPSTAT in the 1990s; Assistant US Attorney General Laurie
Robinson making evidence from police testing readily accessible at
http://www.crimesolutions.gov in 2010; and UK Chief Constable Peter Neyroud's
proposal for the evidence-based College of Policing in 2011. What these leaders
generally shared--with, most notably, NYPD Commissioner and US Police Foundation
President Patrick V. Murphy--was a loosely articulated but deeply held belief
that greater use of research could help transform policing into a more
legitimate and respected profession.

   A profession is widely defined as a public-interest occupation that restricts
entry to those who have mastered knowledge and skills needed to provide a
particular set of complex services. In the past century, the level of knowledge
deemed necessary for a profession has become  [*382]  linked to requirements for
university-based education. It is only a century, for example, since the radical
proposal to force doctors to attend university was presented to the United
Kingdom's Haldane Commission (Sherman 2011b). Similarly, proposals in repeated
US commission reports in the 1960s and 1970s recommended that a university
degree be a requirement for appointment as a police officer (Sherman and
National Advisory Commission on Higher Education for Police Officers 1978). That
idea remains controversial and widely unacceptable on both sides of the
Atlantic. By conventional definition, then, policing has yet to become a
profession.

   Yet by the same definition, policing has made great strides toward
professionalism. The past 40 years have seen a huge increase in the educational
levels of police leaders. Almost half of English chief constables in 2010 had
been educated at the Cambridge University Police Executive Program, and three
decades of major city chiefs in the United States attended the nondegree Harvard
Police Executive Sessions. The role of universities in disseminating police
research has been a remarkably successful top-down change process.

   Rising levels of police chief education have also fostered more support for
research. First led by external scholars, and now increasingly led by police
leaders in partnership with universities, the production of new research
evidence has helped police respond to external demands for improvement. At
minimum, research is perceived to be helpful with such demands. That is
especially true when there is internal or external controversy about which
police methods are best and whether new technologies are cost-effective.

   Even a radical change in structures of police accountability can enhance the
value of police research evidence. The 2012 devolution of control over chief
constables in England and Wales to locally elected "police and crime
commissioners," for example, created a potential for disputes between elected
officials and professional police leaders. One possible solution is the
professional College of Policing setting independent, evidence-based standards
of police practice. Whether this institution, or its cognates in other
countries, can create a global demand for more production and use of evidence is
a crucial question for the next decade.

   Targeting, Testing, and Tracking. Both the demand for, and uses of, research
evidence have become clustered around three strategic principles:


      [*383]  1. Police should conduct and apply good research to target
     scarce resources on predictable concentrations of harm from crime and
     disorder.
     2. Once police choose their high-priority targets, they should review
     or conduct tests of police methods to help choose what works best to
     reduce harm.
     3. Once police agencies use research to target their tested practices,
     they should generate and use internal evidence to track the daily
     delivery and effects of those practices, including public perceptions
     of police legitimacy.

   The growing adoption of those three principles has given shape to what is
increasingly called evidence-based policing (EBP). Broadly defined as the use of
best research evidence on "what works" as a guide to police decisions (Sherman
1998), the EBP framework was meant to be only a method of making decisions
rather than a substantive strategy for police operations. In the 15 years from
1997 to 2012, however, police have shaped their own emergent definition of EBP
as a substantive strategy for managing large police agencies on the basis of
these three principles.

   The rise of the triple-T strategy did not emerge from any theoretical plan to
use evidence in such a coherent strategy. The clustering of evidence around
three key strategic tasks was driven as much by innovative police leadership as
by police scholarship. Its success resulted from the surprisingly rational
convergence of police reform with a flood of new research in criminology.

   This essay has four sections. Section I discusses the key social trends,
institutions, and people who helped shape research aiming to improve policing.
The triple-T strategy emerged from the users of that evidence. Section II offers
major examples of how much the evidence has grown since 1975 and how widely
police have applied that knowledge. These examples address all three triple-T
principles, including instances in which evidence and practice have sharply
diverged. They are selected to highlight the wide range of what has already been
accomplished, even as so much still remains to be done.

   Section III analyzes conceptual issues and confusion that hold back progress
in targeting, testing, and tracking. The issues are arguably little different
from those arising in the development of evidence-based practices in
professional baseball, election campaigns, or marketing. They reflect the
current struggle between "system I" and "system II"  [*384]  thinking (Kahneman
2011) in a wide range of endeavors, all of which face the same challenge
policing faces--to get much better at what they do in the next decade. In the
conclusion I suggest 10 things institutions can do to institutionalize research
evidence in ways that foster more fairness and effectiveness in democratic
policing.

   These are the most important points I make in this essay:


     1. The evidence base for police decisions has grown enormously since
     1975.
     2. Use of that evidence lags behind the knowledge, but use has also
     grown.
     3. Most police practices, despite their enormous cost, are still
     untested.
     4. Targeting and testing require highly reliable measures of crime and
     harm.
     5. Crime rates and counts are by themselves misleading; a crime harm
     index offers far better evidence to guide police decisions.
     6. Police in 2012 used evidence on targeting much more widely than
     evidence from testing.
     7. Research on tracking police outputs remains largely descriptive and
     incomplete, with great room for using new technologies to improve the
     quality of evidence.
     8. More use of evidence can increase police legitimacy, both internal
     and external.
     9. The State Boards of Police Officer Standards and Training in the
     United States and the College of Policing in the United Kingdom will
     be key institutions in making policing more effective, along with the
     practitioner-led Society for Evidence-Based Policing.

   I. The Rise of Evidence for Police Decision Making

   The rise of evidence in policing is mostly an Anglo-American story, with
events on each side of the Atlantic influencing the other. Both sides began with
parallel social trends in the 1960s that challenged police legitimacy. Both the
United Kingdom and the United States faced rising crime rates and increasing
racial tensions. Authoritative commissions in both set out ambitious agendas for
"upgrading" the police, as one think tank put it (Saunders 1970). Both saw
policing  [*385]  become a matter of national politics in unprecedented ways.
The different responses of police in each country helped build a special
intellectual relationship that was conceptually far deeper than the military
collaboration of World War II. One continuing theme on both sides of the
Atlantic has been that "they do policing better" on the other side.

A. Setting the Stage

   By the early 1970s, Anglo-American policing faced a kind of Christmas tree of
ideas for police reform, each idea an ornament unconnected to the others. One
idea was that police needed more research, including experiments and
demonstration projects, with criminologists and other social scientists becoming
part of the police agency workforce focusing on crime prevention (President's
Commission 1967, pp. 25-27). There was no consensus about the questions research
should answer. There was no particular vision of a new policing strategy to
which research could contribute. Yet belief in innovation and evaluation as a
strategy in itself became a major force in police reform (Reiss 1992).

   That belief led to public and charitable investments in new institutions for
police research. The growing role of the British Home Office in police research
helped inspire the creation of a similar function in the US Department of
Justice. Yet neither government agency's efforts had much impact until after the
Ford Foundation in 1970 funded the Police Foundation in Washington to "foster
innovation and improvement in American policing." The bold experiments the
foundation conducted led government funders to test policing more deeply. In
less than a decade, the Police Foundation's and government-supported research
discredited the intellectual basis for the three-Rs strategy of random patrol,
rapid response, and reactive investigations.

   What replaced that strategy was not a coherent new theory. Only in retrospect
can we use the triple-T framework of targeting, testing, and tracking to make
sense of what emerged. The multicentered work of examining current practices,
designing innovations, and evaluating new programs produced something that
scholars now call "emergence," the confluence of properties arising from a
combination of elements not found in any one of the elements (Johnson 2001). The
essential new property is the capacity to lead police organizations with dynamic
evidence rather than static doctrine. This property arose initially from the
destruction of the prevailing three-Rs model. That, in turn, opened  [*386]  the
door to considering the implications of basic research provided by an earlier
generation of thinkers.

   The most important basic research had documented the existence of police
discretion to choose different strategies rather than being handcuffed by the
three Rs. Most notably, Reiss's (1971) conception of police work as divided
between proactive and reactive discretion stimulated much creative thinking. At
the same time, Banton's (1964) research in Britain and Wilson's (1968) research
in the United States showed how the discretionary choices of police
organizations differ on the basis of their political and cultural environments,
despite their sharing a common legal system. These insights expanded the concept
of police discretion from the level of case-by-case to agency-by-agency decision
making and helped to set the stage for the emergence of triple-T. But that new,
evidence-based strategy took almost four decades to emerge from the accumulation
of new research evidence. What happened was a process of "prosumption" (Tapscott
and Williams 2006) in which the producers of elements of the triple-T strategy
were simultaneously its consumers.

B. Testing

   The three-Rs strategy was intellectually discredited after three major
efforts were made to assess the effects of key elements. These studies did not
adequately support the conclusions attributed to them. They did not show that
random patrol had no effect on crime, that rapid police response had no
deterrent effect, or that detectives made no contribution to detection,
prosecution, and general deterrence of crime. Regardless of what the research
evidence really did show, those conclusions became widely accepted by police
leaders and police scholars, then and now.

   1. Random Patrol. The Police Foundation's Kansas City Preventive Patrol
Experiment (Kelling et al. 1974) launched the rise of evidence-based policing.
The first attempt to undertake a scientifically controlled test of the effects
of patrol staffing levels, it proved that bold experiments were possible in
policing. The experimental design of withdrawing patrols from five patrol beats
(and doubling it in five others) was stunning and unprecedented. That the "sky
did not fall" made the world safe for further bold experiments. The reported
conclusion--that frequency of police patrols did not affect crime--opened many
minds to think more critically about police strategy. The experiment's  [*387]
leadership by a police chief who was subsequently appointed FBI director also
suggested that research, even with negative results, could be good for police
career advancement.

   It is unfortunate that the Kansas City experiment did not actually support
its conclusion. The limitations of the experiment's research design have been
extensively reviewed elsewhere (Sherman 1986, 1992b; Sherman and Weisburd 1995).
The main problem is that the actual frequency of patrols was unmeasured and may
well have been identical in all beats because of reactive responses to calls
(Larson 1976). Moreover, there were large differences across treatment groups in
certain crime rates but too few beats to call the differences "statistically
significant." But the most important critique has never been published before:
that random patrol was not compared to any other pattern of patrol, so there was
no evidence showing that random patrol did not "work" relative to other patterns
of patrol, such as concentration on crime hot spots. Policing still needs a
strong randomized trial comparing random patrol to hot spots patrol.

   Nonetheless, the conclusion that random patrol did not work was widely
accepted. Tens of thousands of police officers lost their jobs in the aftermath
of the study, which came coincidentally just before a financial crisis in many
US cities. None of that stopped the widespread use of random patrol. But it did
help drive a research agenda seeking alternative police strategies.

   2. Rapid Response. The theory that marginally faster response times would
catch and deter more criminals was effectively falsified by a National Institute
of Justice-funded research project led by staff of the Kansas City Police
Department (1977). The study reported that it was necessary to divide crimes
into victim-offender "involvement" crimes (e.g., robbery, assault, rape) and
after-the-crime "discovery" crimes (e.g., burglary, car theft). It then focused
response time analysis on involvement crimes, with "response time" including
three time periods: crime occurrence to calling the police ("reporting time"),
police receipt of call to dispatch ("dispatch time"), and "travel time" of
police from receipt of dispatch to arrival at the scene. Using systematic
observation methods and interviews of victims, the Kansas City study found that
there was no correlation between response-related arrest probability and
reporting time once the reporting time exceeded 9 minutes. The average reporting
time for involvement crimes was 41 minutes (Kansas City Police Department 1977,
vol. 2, pp. 23, 39). Replications of the  [*388]  reporting time segment in
other US cities found similar results (Spelman and Brown 1981).

   What the research did not show is that a capacity for rapid response had no
effect on crime. The Kansas City study was not an experiment comparing police
agencies or areas with very rapid responses to similar agencies or areas with
slower responses, or even no response. Much remains to be learned about the
effect of any rapid response capacity compared to none, the latter being the
state of police services in much of the world, from India to parts of rural
America.

   What mattered historically was the growing recognition that there were better
things police could do with their time than just wait for calls. While the
research did not prove that point, it helped open the minds of police leaders
and scholars about what those other things might be.

   3. Reactive Investigations. The view that detectives "solve" crimes that are
reported to them was strongly rejected by another National Institute of Justice
(NIJ) project, this one conducted by the RAND Corporation (Greenwood and
Petersilia 1975). This report examined the value detectives add to the
information that was in the record at the end of a preliminary investigation by
the first responders to a crime, usually uniformed patrol officers. The
conclusion was that detectives rarely uncovered new evidence that made a
difference in solving the crime--contrary to a century of detective fiction.

   Here again, the evidence is thin in relation to the conclusion. An experiment
comparing cases prosecuted without detective work to cases prosecuted after
detective work would be a strong test of the "no-effect" hypothesis. But what
mattered was that yet another sacred cow was wounded. For many police leaders,
this completed the well-justified execution of the three-Rs strategy, which
legitimated trying alternatives.

   These three studies created a strong appetite for more experiments and
support for funding them from influential scholars. Franklin E. Zimring, James
Q. Wilson, Albert J. Reiss Jr., and others shaped several National Academy of
Science reports recommending more NIJ funding for randomized experiments
(Zimring 1976; White and Krislov 1977). These reports led to NIJ funding streams
for most of the more than 100 tests of police practices listed online by Lum,
Koper, and Telep (2010), many of which were funded in 1983-89 by James K.
[*389]  Stewart, the only NIJ director to have served as an operational police
officer and leader.

C. Targeting

   Important as these tests were, they could not answer the more fundamental
question: how can police resources be allocated more effectively? Once the idea
of proactive policing became widely understood, it sparked a revolutionary
insight in targeting that Goldstein (1979) called problem-oriented policing
(POP). For reactive investigations, the RAND report also led to a revolutionary
question: can detectives target which cases they can solve by predicting the
likely outcome before they begin working on each case?

   1. Problem-Oriented Policing. After decades of observing police operations
for a major study of police discretion (LaFave 1965) and assisting one of the
first university graduate police executives in history (O. W. Wilson) as police
superintendent of Chicago, Herman Goldstein offered a revolutionary new
targeting strategy for policing. Describing a case-by-case response to events as
a myopic failure to see larger patterns, Goldstein (1979, 1990) recommended that
police invest more time in treating the causes of those patterns rather than
their symptoms. POP is more than a targeting strategy, however, since it also
develops ideas for the content of police actions to deal with targeted problems.
Yet the tactical content of POP is appropriately broad and highly dependent on
good diagnosis and good research on what action would work best. The major
breakthrough of the strategy is the injunction to first look for
patterns--proactively.

   2. Crime and Harm Concentrations. It was therefore no accident that Reiss,
the person who first used the term "proactive" in a policing context, suggested
that I study the distribution of all reactive police responses to reported
crimes and disorder by each and every address in a major city. The result was
our discovery of tiny, micro-level crime hot spots (Sherman 1987; Sherman,
Gartin, and Buerger 1989), in contrast to conventional concepts of much larger
high-crime areas. The city of Minneapolis provided the first, but by no means
the last, evidence of far greater concentrations of repeat problems at
individual street addresses than among individual offenders. Only 3 percent of
all street addresses in Minneapolis generated over half of all police rapid
responses. This addition to the existing research on crime concentrations showed
how police scholars could identify important new targets  [*390]  for proactive
policing on both sides of the Atlantic. While Goldstein's examples were richly
qualitative, the research on crime and harm concentrations was intensely
quantitative. American scholars found hot spots of crime. British scholars found
patterns of repeat victimization (Farrell 1995). In both cases, the numbers of
potential patterns were unlimited. Only newly available computers could say how
many addresses or people had more than 10, or 20, or 200 crimes over any given
time period. Only the computer could rank every known offender, victim,
location, neighborhood, weapon, modus operandi, or crime recruiter by the number
of repeat events in a year (Reiss 1988). What these studies showed were highly
concentrated distributions of crime in a small proportion of any of the units at
risk, from people to places to times and situations.

   3. Investigative Solvability Factors. News reports intermittently "reveal"
that only a small proportion of crimes lead to arrests or convictions, as if
they had discovered something new. There is, however, no evidence to suggest
that it was ever otherwise, at any time in the last two centuries (see, e.g.,
Monkkonen 1992). At the same time the RAND report on detectives was under way,
scholars at Stanford University asked whether they could target solvable crimes
for priority investment, allocating resources that might otherwise be wasted on
pursuing unsolvable crimes.

   This idea of "triage" was at least as old as the US Civil War, when doctors
worked first on people who would die without immediate assistance. They
postponed work on two other groups (hence the term "tri-age"): those who would
die even with treatment and those who would live without immediate treatment.
The strategy was intended to optimize the number of lives. For policing, it
offered a way to make policing far more effective.

   As Greenberg and Lang (1973) suggested, the likely "solvability" of each case
can be reliably, but not perfectly, identified at the time an initial
investigation is completed. By using a checklist of available forensic evidence
in each case when it arrives on a detective's desk, the detective can decide
whether to close the case or start working on it. The checklist that Stanford
developed included such items as fingerprints, witnesses, footprints, names of
likely suspects, and other facts. A test of one such solvability model on over
12,000 burglary cases found that it correctly predicted in 85 percent of the
cases whether the case would be solved or not (Eck 1979), suggesting that
nonsolvable  [*391]  cases could be filed immediately with little difference in
result. The next question, however, is still unanswered, as with the untested
conclusions about response time and random patrols: how would a "checklist of
solvability factors" regime compare to an "investigate every case" regime in
terms of overall detection rates--or even to a "discretionary, nonchecklist
decision about solvability" regime?

D. Tracking

   No matter what targets are selected for police resources, no matter how well
the police methods are tested, the central management question will always be,
"what are police doing to accomplish our objectives, when, where, and with what
apparent result?" In my first year at the NYPD in 1971, few police leaders ever
discussed that question. By 1991, the question was asked all over the New York
subways by then- Transit Police Chief William Bratton, and by 1995, he was
grilling NYPD commanders on the question in front of 200 people at Police
Headquarters. Yet long before New York reached that point, the British police
were being driven hard by the numbers. Only the numbers, and the conversations,
were very different.

   1. Performance Management, UK Style. From the dawn of the Thatcher
government, UK policing was dominated by two themes: huge pay increases and an
explosion of statistical management. Key Performance Indicators were tabulated
annually on a national level and monthly on a local level (Parkinson 2013).
Eventually, police agencies were not only assessed on whether they had met
specific goals set by central government but also compared to all other police
agencies in a kind of "class rank," or football league table. One police agency
would be ranked first, one ranked last.

   These rankings created enormous pressure on police leadership to track what
their officers were doing. Yet the pressure was not matched by any new tools,
either hardware or managerial, for monitoring police activity. Only the numbers
of police car dispatches, crime reports, or arrests were easily measurable. It
was no surprise that these numbers were sometimes manipulated, including a
"flexible" definition of crime types and other crimes "taken into consideration"
when confessed by offenders caught red-handed. Even police response time was
used in some years, despite its discredited status in the United States.

   By 2012, these interagency competitions were mostly rejected in UK police
culture. Yet the precedent they set for tracking in general is still  [*392]
widely accepted. What police now understand is that the number of actions
tracked should be relatively small, and each one should have a direct connection
to something that is well researched and found useful. What US police learned
from the British experience is that timely data could help drive a police
agency.

   2. COMPSTAT. No one put that lesson to better use than William Bratton
(1998), who served as the chief executive of the Boston, New York, and Los
Angeles Police Departments. With his colleague Jack Maple (1999), he developed a
more focused process of tracking police activity. Using area commanders as the
conduit for strategic initiatives, Bratton and Maple developed the COMPSTAT
(computerized statistics) meetings as a means of pushing for better policing and
less crime. Local commanders were arrested from time to time and charged with
manipulating crime statistics, but for the most part, the system has been seen
as operating with integrity. By 2012 the NYPD system was 18 years old and was
still in operation, despite turnover in mayors and police commissioners. There
is enormous potential to expand it to better indicators and performance.

   3. Auditing for Evidence. In late 2012 the Metropolitan Police at New
Scotland Yard launched a top-to-bottom effort to push evidence into every aspect
of police operations, training, and promotions (Stanko 2013). This decision
included a plan to appoint a Commissioner's Professor of Policing in a major
university, a position that would entail 50 percent time doing research for a
50,000-employee police agency. This research could include comprehensive reviews
of police practices against what the research evidence--especially testing--says
about those practices. It would also likely entail new randomized controlled
trials to be conducted in London. This plan for evidence-based policing was
premised on the recognition of a vast body of research that had not yet been
fully applied to police operations. This decision of Police Commissioner Sir
Bernard Hogan-Howe provides perhaps the clearest indication of the
Anglo-American rise of evidence for police decisions.

E. Explaining the Rise

   How policing learned so much, and put so much of it to work, cannot be easily
explained by any current theory of knowledge. Even the history of medicine
offers thin explanations of why doctors do research, and why, if ever, they
decide to use it (Millenson 1997) or  [*393]  not, as in their continued failure
to wash their hands after touching each patient (Pittet and Boyce 2001). What
follows is my insider's hunch about a theory of police knowledge. This hunch is
by no means a general theory of developing and using professional knowledge. My
explanation is deeply, if not widely, "grounded" (Glaser and Straus 1967) in my
continuous participant-observation study of Anglo-Celtic policing since 1968.

   The theory has a major premise: that democratic policing is an extremely open
system. Far more than any publicly held stockholder corporation, and probably
more than any other government agency, policing is always vulnerable to the
demands of any vocal constituency. No matter how small the group of demanders or
how justified their complaints, police leaders must listen to them and give due
consideration to them in providing better (or different) police practices. This
pattern of organizational behavior has been observed in general since at least
Thompson (1967, pp. 30, 37). Wilson (1968, p. 78) described a subset of this
pattern in his discussion of "critical events" in policing, such as scandals,
riots, police killings of citizens, and police strikes. The key question for
evidence is what happens next: how critical events may shape evidence, and how
evidence may then shape policy.

   Figure 1 presents a causal model in which external demands for different
policing are the major driving force. The theory claims that these demands are
transformed by the human capital of the police institution, at both its core
(police leaders) and its periphery (police scholars and research funders). In
turn, human capital is shaped by the broader government policies that are also a
target of public demands. The presence or absence of talented police leaders and
scholars often reflects a 20- or 30-year lag in recruitment conditions and is
highly dependent on national policies affecting police salaries, research
funding, and other aspects of the capacity to generate and use research
evidence. The people in a position to influence policy, if they are skilled
enough, can then identify critical research questions and complete research
projects, which are then communicated to police practitioners. Police managers
and officers will then decide--immediately, somewhat later, or many years
later--to apply the conclusions of the research evidence in their police
practices. Sometimes this happens without their even knowing that the practice
was shaped by research evidence (see, e.g., Police Executive Research Forum
2008).

   These practices, and the ongoing critical events associated with  [*394]
them, continue to shape external demands on police. This happens only in part on
the basis of police success or failure in meeting those demands. Many other
things shape those demands, of course, and may be far more important than what
police actually do. These other factors include economic ups and downs,
emigration and immigration, ethnic and racial conflict, baby booms and busts,
and possibly even a lag time from policies on leaded gasoline (Nevin 2000). Thus
external demands on police are largely exogenous to the model, even though
police can try to shape them to some degree. This makes the external demands
[*395]  fairly insensitive to how well police are performing in any objective
sense. Yet the model leaves room for improvements in police practice at least to
mitigate criticism and possibly even to increase legitimacy of the police and
trust and confidence in them. FIG. 1.--A theoretical model of the rise of
evidence-based policing

   The role of technology is also exogenous to the model and may be even more
important than citizen demands (Manning 1992). Both police and societies adopt
new technologies rapidly when their advantages are obvious and their cost
declines. Many technologies, such as the automobile and the computer, are sold
initially at high cost and then become much cheaper. By the time most US
households owned an auto, for example, most police patrols were also performed
in cars. The adoption of personal computers also lagged but was much faster. The
desktop computer that analyzed police mainframe data to identify hot spots of
crime (Sherman 1987) was unavailable in the Minneapolis Police Department in the
1980s, but later, faster, cheaper laptop models were widely available in
policing by the 1990s. The rise of DNA testing still hinges on reducing the cost
of speedy results (Roman et al. 2009). The spread and impact of body-worn video
may also hinge on reliability and the cost of data storage.

   The model does not suggest that there is a direct pathway between demands for
specific improvements in policing, such as more legitimate rape investigations,
and research on how this demand can be met. To the contrary: demands for
immediate solutions send governments and police in a frantic search for research
that has already been done. If none exists, that merely provides evidence that
policing lacks an evidence base. For example, the death of a bystander hit by a
constable in a 2009 London protest was associated with a controversial police
tactic called "kettling," or restraining people for hours in a cordoned-off
area. The UK government launched a rapid evidence assessment on kettling but
found that little research had been done. Rather than investing in such research
over a longer time frame, the government chose to report the knowledge gap and
then ignore it.

   The direct pathway from specific demands for police innovations usually
travels to police leaders through theory and precedent from other jurisdictions,
but not through new research. The way research can affect policy is to
anticipate the chronically recurring issues and have research evidence ready for
the next critical event. As a member of Parliament for Cambridge once said,
research findings are "money in the bank" (Howarth 2010). They do not have to be
used immediately  [*396]  and can go unused for years until there is a demand
for them. That is why the line from research goes directly to police practices,
since research can be kept in readiness to shape the decisions on police
practices when "critical events" press police leaders to meet external demands
to change them.

   This theory explains the past but need not predict the future. A more
rational model of using evidence to improve policing would be proactively led by
the police profession, not reactively driven by the political environment. That
model might even reduce the number of critical events that threaten police
legitimacy. It is one that, as applied to health care, has helped to keep down
medical costs in the United Kingdom to less than half the percentage of gross
domestic product as in the United States, where there is no system to target
resources on the basis of professional research evidence (Sherman 2011b). It is
also the plan for what the College of Policing might do as a champion and
arbiter of evidence-based practice.

   II. What We Know and What Police Do

The clearest test of my claims about evidence is whether police decisions are
more consistent with the evidence now than in 1975. As of 2012 the record on
that test was mixed but encouraging. There are many areas of triple-T in which
the evidence is useful and police are using it. There are others in which the
evidence is useful but is not used. The adoption of evidence-based decision
making has been stronger for targeting and tracking than for testing, but all
three areas have seen a substantial impact of research on practice. This section
supports those conclusions with a series of short summaries of good evidence on
many aspects of policing, followed by even shorter summaries of whether that
evidence is used.

   There are many other strategies that can use EBP besides triple-T. Evidence
can be useful, for example, in the recruitment and promotion of more women
police leaders, in developing better ways to train police, or in finding
lighter-weight body armor with greater protection. This essay focuses on
triple-T because it can shape the core of policing and holds the greatest
potential for the direct reduction of harm in society.

   The most accessible evidence of the large quantity of the testing police have
done can be found by Googling the Evidence-Based Policing  [*397]  Matrix at
George Mason University's Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy (Lum, Koper,
and Telep 2010). This website lists over 100 controlled tests of police
practices, in both randomized experiments and quasi experiments. The matrix is
designed by a former Baltimore detective to increase the use of research
evidence in daily police operations. Other easily accessible sources, such as
http://www.crimesolutions.gov (at the US Department of Justice) and
http://www.campbellcollaboration.org (operated by the Norwegian government),
provide additional evidence on tests of police effectiveness.

   Evidence on targeting and tracking resources is more scattered and
inaccessible than it is for testing. The likely solution to that problem is for
George Mason, the College of Policing, and other knowledge centers to broaden
their knowledge repositories to include evidence on all areas of triple-T.

   The evidence on the use of research in policing is much harder to come by and
is badly in need of more evidence of its own. This section draws heavily on
qualitative evidence gathered in over 54 weeks of discussions at Cambridge
University with police executives from around the world in 2007-12 (primarily
reporting on the United Kingdom, United States, and Australia). That evidence
may be the least reliable of any reviewed here, but it is a consistent source
applied equally to all the different topics addressed below.

A. Targeting Police Resources

   In this subsection, I consider a range of evidence about ways police agencies
can set priorities for investing their personnel with the greatest return on
investment. It includes studies of how police use their time and of how they
could focus their time on concentrations of high-priority events. It includes
tests of targeting strategies as well as tests of predictions about
high-priority targets, which must be distinguished from the tests of police
impact on public safety discussed below.

   1. Differential Police Response.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that police can greatly limit their use
of rapid response by car without offending citizens or putting them at risk.
Callers will accept police decisions not to dispatch a police car for
nonemergencies if the policy is explained to them by the person who answers the
telephone. In randomized experiments in three US cities (McEwen, Connors, and
Cohen 1986), citizens calling about  [*398]  matters that were not emergencies
were given one of two responses: that police will come "as soon as they can"
(standard policy at the time) or that no response is necessary since the matter
can be handled by telephone or other methods. Citizens were equally satisfied
with both responses. The benefit was that call takers performed the same work as
patrol officers in about one-third of the work time, with no transportation
costs or air pollution. In some agencies, rapid police responses could be
reduced by 50 percent or more with substantial savings--or more resources
preventing serious crime.

   What Police Do. The use of "differential police response" (DPR) remains very
mixed. Even when DPR is used, it is rarely evidence-based. The 1986 evaluation
is generally unknown to contemporary police professionals, yet it is freely
available online and could save millions annually in any large police agency.
Every police agency could easily conduct its own randomized trial of different
kinds of incidents for which callers would receive a nondispatch response. At a
time when police resources are declining in the United States and the United
Kingdom (Sherman 2011b), an evidence-based approach to targeting resources where
they are needed most is now needed more than ever.

   2. Hot Spots of Crime.

   The Evidence. There is good descriptive evidence that police can target
resources on most crimes by identifying the small fraction of small places in
any city where crime happens repeatedly (Sherman, Gartin, and Buerger 1989;
Weisburd, Groff, and Yang 2012). These hot spot concentrations are clearest at a
very micro level, such as a single address, a cluster of addresses, or a
"block-face" street segment from one corner to the next on a single street.
While some hot spots may wax and wane from year to year or month to month, many
are stable for 15 years or more (Weisburd et al. 2004). Hot spots can be mapped,
ranked, classified by offense type, and analyzed in many ways relevant to police
operations.

   What Police Do. Crime mapping is widespread, with many police agencies using
it to identify hot spots. By the 2007 US Law Enforcement Management and
Administrative Statistics Survey, over half of all cities of 50,000 or more
residents used computers to generate crime hot spots, including almost all
cities of over 500,000 people (Reaves 2010, p. 22). But the definition of hot
spots varies widely. In many UK agencies, these locations are usually much
larger than what the original research evidence analyzed. Entire patrol beats,
rather than street corners  [*399]  or face blocks, are the United Kingdom's
more common unit of analysis, while the opposite tendency is found in the United
States. A sample of 192 big US cities showed slightly higher use of
intersections (63 percent) than of neighborhoods (57 percent) as the definition
of hot spots (Police Executive Research Forum 2008, p. 3). UK police in 2012
were at a special disadvantage because of their dispatch systems, which often
failed to pinpoint the locations where crimes occur; some audits have shown the
mapped locations of crimes to be great distances from the actual locations. Any
police agency that is serious about reducing crime must, arguably, invest in
correcting crime location errors, ideally by using GPS devices to include the
exact latitude and longitude of every crime reported. In Andhra Pradesh, India,
some police stations had incorporated GPS data into all crime reports by early
2011, and Trinidad and Tobago adopted it nationally in 2012, when no UK agency
had yet done so. GPS measures would also improve the accuracy of targeting
analysis for directed patrol and problem solving.

   3. Hot Spots of Distrust.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that distrust of police is concentrated
in a small proportion of urban neighborhoods. Police legitimacy is defined as a
public (or police) perception of the moral right to exercise legal powers. This
means that policing can be legal but illegitimate in the eyes of some (or most)
beholders (Tankebe 2009; Bottoms and Tankebe 2012). The legitimacy of policing
is highly correlated with minority or majority status in many populations
(Sherman 2002), with majority populations attributing much greater legitimacy to
police than minorities. Riots in US cities were concentrated in such hot spots
(Rossi, Berk, and Eidson 1974). One recent study of public trust in a UK police
jurisdiction showed very high levels of distrust in certain minority areas
(Murray 2009). Yet not all majority-minority areas have highly negative views of
police; some (as in Chicago) have more positive views (Skogan 1990; Skogan and
Hartnett 1997; Sampson and Bartusch 1998).

   What Police Do. Very few police agencies take annual surveys of public
attitudes toward police. The US agencies that pay for such evidence tend to
focus on citywide ratings rather than neighborhood-level differences. Some UK
agencies have paid for neighborhood-level breakdowns with samples as large as
30,000 responses agencywide. Targeting strategies for increasing police
legitimacy cannot be accomplished  [*400]  on a geographic basis unless such
evidence is generated annually, so that deterioration or progress can be
identified.

   4. Hot Times and Days.

   The Evidence. Crime risks vary enormously by time of day and day of week
(Sherman 1992a), as well as season by season and holiday by holiday. Weather
also has a strong effect on police workload (Cohn 1993), and in some regions it
can be predicted days in advance with high reliability.

   What Police Do. This issue remains the major failure of evidence-based
targeting (Sherman 1992a). More money is wasted by ignoring "hot times"
targeting than by any other police management practice. As one UK inspection
report observed (Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary 2010, p. 3), more
police officers were on patrol on Monday mornings than on Friday nights. The
failure to schedule a workforce based on high-crime times and days is largely
due to police labor contracts. These agreements serve the reasonable interests
of police officers in a predictable work schedule. What is unreasonable to
taxpayers is chronic and predictable understaffing during the peak crime times
and overstaffing during "cool" times.

   5. Repeat Offenders.

   The Evidence. A small number of all offenders commit a high proportion of all
crimes (Blumstein et al. 1986). Few specialize in any particular crime, and most
of the crimes they commit are offenses against property. Controlling crime
rates, and even the aggregated crime harm, may depend on police identifying,
managing, or arresting prolific offenders.

   What Police Do. Some police agencies target high-volume offenders who are not
in jail (Spelman 1990). Yet almost no police agency has an instant query
capacity to determine whether a particular known offender is in prison or at
large. No agency appears to develop objectives for reducing recidivism of
high-rate offenders, or even tracking the proportion of known repeat offenders
they have put behind bars or under correctional supervision at any given time.
Since the population of such offenders at large changes daily, a substantial
investment in evidence gathering would be needed to target repeat offenders day
by day. Nonetheless, most agencies would report that "we do that already,"
without actually investing in what is required to target repeat offenders in an
evidence-based way.

   6. Dangerous versus "Supersafe" Offenders.

    [*401]  The Evidence. More important than repeat offenders, and far fewer in
number, are the most dangerous offenders. People who are most likely to kill,
rape, rob, or commit sex crimes against children can be identified and
forecasted from large databases (Berk et al. 2009). While the error rates in
forecasting dangerousness can be substantial, the errors in forecasting
"supersafe" conduct are minimal. A UK analysis of 100,000 convicted offenders
found 96 percent accuracy in classifying offenders as not dangerous if somewhat
lower accuracy (84 percent) in forecasting zero recidivism over a 2-year period
(Sherman, Cosma, and Neyroud 2012).

   What Police Do. The techniques used to classify known offenders as very
dangerous, supersafe, or in between are new to both criminology and policing.
From around 2000, UK police chiefs tried hard to identify the most dangerous
offenders, but with highly subjective "clinical" methods that have failed to
pass basic statistical tests (Thornton 2011). UK chiefs have recently expressed
great interest in applying statistical forecasting methods to their local
offender populations, requesting the statistical models as soon as they could be
made available (Peter Neyroud, personal communication). Meanwhile, the few
police agencies employing their own statisticians are free to replicate the
published models.

   7. Crime Recruiters.

   The Evidence. A small proportion of repeat offenders have a high propensity
for being arrested with, and apparently "recruiting," many different
co-offenders (Reiss 1988; Reiss and Farrington 1991; Sherman 1992a). Where these
co-offenders are almost always younger than the more experienced offender, the
pattern suggests that the frequent co-offender may be recruiting novices into
crime or certain types of crime. The hypothesis is even more compelling if the
younger offenders have no prior record. That is exactly what an analysis of all
arrestees in Sacramento, California, found over a multiyear period (Englefield
2013).

   What Police Do. Only one police agency so far is known to generate lists of
high-volume crime recruiters (Sacramento), but others may follow suit. The fact
that the strongest evidence was generated not by an academic but by a police
officer writing a master's thesis (as a self-funded student at Cambridge) is a
good indication of the rise of professionally driven research in policing
(Weisburd and Neyroud 2011).

   8. Traumatized Victims.

    [*402]  The Evidence. Crime victims suffer great trauma from rape and rape
attempts (Foa 1997). They also suffer lesser but high levels of trauma from
noninjury crimes such as burglary and robbery, especially women (Angel 2005).
While they are rarely diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, they suffer
elevated levels of post-traumatic stress symptoms.

   What Police Do. Anglo-Celtic police have become far more sensitive to
rape-related trauma since 1975 and have developed elaborate protocols for rape
investigations and related medical care. Police do not, however, generally
target the victims of lesser trauma, largely because there has been little
external pressure to do so. Yet well-tested methods exist that police could use
to massively reduce the symptoms of posttraumatic stress.

   9. Repeat Victims.

   The Evidence. High proportions of residential and personal crimes are
committed against repeat victims (Pease 1998).

   What Police Do. Police programs on repeat victimization tend to target all
victims rather than to identify repeat victims. Other than the Minneapolis RECAP
program in the 1980s (Buerger 1993), few police agencies have even developed
lists of repeat victims. This may be a missed opportunity for reducing both
crime and harm.

   10. Near-Miss Victims.

   The Evidence. One of the most predictable risks of a residential burglary is
in the zone of a few buildings on either side, behind, and in front of a
burglarized residence for the first 10-14 days after the burglary (Bowers,
Johnson, and Pease 2004; Johnson and Bowers 2004).

   What Police Do. For a decade after these findings were published, almost no
police agencies identified these "near-miss" areas for prevention programs. Then
a few UK police agencies began doing so in 2011-12. The word-of-mouth interest
in this approach came from presentations by University of London academics to
practitioner audiences at Cambridge and Cardiff conferences of the Society of
Evidence-Based Policing and was still spreading in 2012.

   11. "Solvability Factors."

   The Evidence. There is good evidence, summarized above, that police
investigations can be targeted on the cases most likely to be solved and that
investigations are wasted on cases in which a detection is predicted to be
highly unlikely.

    [*403]  What Police Do. This is another major failure of getting research
into practice, at least by 2012. It is hard to find a police agency that employs
a statistical model of solvability factors to allocate the very scarce resource
of investigators' time. Many police agencies still say they investigate all
crimes. Others admit that they will close cases that are not solved after a
certain period, but they do not use a statistical algorithm to decide which ones
to abandon at the outset. Many confuse this research with closing cases on the
basis of seriousness rather than solvability, such as when the value of property
stolen is too low. It remains a prime opportunity for policing to save money and
do more to help crime victims.

B. Testing Police Practices

   The following subsections discuss a selection of major police practices that
have been tested with at least a comparison group. Many have been tested with
randomized controlled trials, and some have been tested repeatedly with up to 20
or more randomized trials. It is the most robust area of evidence supporting the
triple-T strategy but also the area of biggest gaps between evidence and
practice.

   1. Random Marked Car Patrol.

   The Evidence. There is little direct evidence that random patrol of areas
that have little crime can cause any less crime than having no patrol. The major
exception is police strikes, which consistently cause crime to skyrocket
(Sherman 1992a, pp. 192-93).

   What Police Do. Random patrol by "rapid response" cars is still widespread
across Anglo-Celtic policing. Even when police are told to "concentrate" patrols
in, or "give special attention to," certain areas, this can amount to only a few
minutes per work shift. Random patrol predominates in practice if not in
rhetoric; hot spot patrol is rising rapidly, at least in rhetoric if not yet in
practice.

   2. Hot Spot Car Patrol.

The Evidence. Doubling the dosage of marked car patrols in high-crime hot spots
at higher-crime times can measurably reduce crime and disorder in those hot
spots (Sherman and Weisburd 1995). In the Minneapolis hot spots experiment, an
average of 15 percent of at-risk time with police present produced moderately
less crime, and half the disorder, than in a comparison group with police
present for only 7 percent of at-risk time. Koper (1995) reported that the
greatest residual deterrence in each hot spot (Sherman 1990) was associated with
15-minute  [*404]  periods of patrol presence, compared to both shorter and
longer periods of patrol. Various police strategies have been tested in other
hot spots experiments (Braga, Papachristos, and Hureau 2012), but none has
apparently replicated either the unit of analysis or the measured dosage levels
of the initial Minneapolis experiment (Sherman and Weisburd 1995). Displacement
was not measured in the initial experiment, but it has been falsified in a range
of other hot spots patrol tests (Weisburd et al. 2006). No experiment, however,
has compared hot spots to random patrol at the level of police districts. No
test has yet made a direct comparison between, for example, 50 districts using
random patrols and 50 districts concentrating patrols in crime hot spots. Until
such a test is done, a huge gap remains in the evidence on hot spots policing.

   What Police Do. Directed patrols at crime hot spots in marked cars is a
growing practice in the United States and the United Kingdom. Hot spots patrol
has been identified by the NYPD as a major strategy to which it attributes a
decline in homicide rates (Zimring 2012).Weisburd and Lum (2005) found that
among the 92 US police departments responding to a survey of a random sample of
125 with 100 or more police officers, 62 percent had adopted computerized crime
mapping by 2001. The most common reason these early adopters gave for their
decision--43 percent--was to "facilitate hot spots policing." Thus by 2001, 27
percent of the responding agencies said that they had adopted computerized crime
mapping to facilitate hot spots policing. By 2007, the Police Executive Research
Forum survey of 192 large police agencies found that hot spots had become the
most common police strategy for fighting violent crime since "nearly nine out of
10 agencies use hot spots enforcement efforts directed either at larger hot spot
areas like neighborhoods (57 percent), smaller hot spot places like
intersections (63 percent), or both" (2008, p. 3). In the United Kingdom, hot
spots patrol is growing in tests as well as in practice, with three different
police agencies testing such patrol in 2012-13.

   3. Random Foot Patrol.

   The Evidence. Two quasi-experimental tests of random foot patrol found no
effect on crime (Kelling et al. 1981; Trojanowicz and Baldwin 1982). The Newark
Foot Patrol Experiment, however, found reduced public perceptions of crime and
disorder in areas with foot patrols compared with control areas (Kelling et al.
1981).

   What Police Do. Random foot patrol has almost disappeared in  [*405]
Anglo-Celtic policing. Its use is limited to the highest-density areas of the
largest cities, such as New York and London. Hot spot foot patrol is far more
common.

   4. Hot Spot Foot Patrol.

   The Evidence. A brief but randomized controlled test of foot patrol in
high-crime areas of Philadelphia found that foot patrol caused significant
reductions in violent crime with only modest local displacement effects
(Ratcliffe et al. 2011). The areas were much larger than the Minneapolis hot
spot street corners but still smaller than a typical police district.

   What Police Do. In the United States, foot patrol in high-crime hot spots is
most likely to be used in densely populated cities. In the United Kingdom,
Police Community Support Officers, whose uniforms look much like those of police
constables with full arrest powers, are often used for foot patrols in town
centers and suburban shopping strips.

   5. Rapid Response Policing.

   The Evidence. There is no direct evidence that rapid response can make any
difference in detection or crime rates and some indirect evidence that it
cannot. It is very rare that rapid response can catch an offender. Rarer still
does rapid response save a crime victim from serious injury. The capacity to do
so may be a core feature of police legitimacy, an aspect of this issue on which
there is no evidence.

   What Police Do. Police agencies still spend substantial funds ensuring the
capacity to respond very quickly. Some of them track average response times very
closely and advertise the results by public announcements.

   6. Problem-Oriented Policing.

   The Evidence. Both randomized experiments and quasi experiments have tested
Goldstein's (1979, 1990) proposed strategy of attacking underlying causes,
rather than just symptoms, of patterns of crime. Most reported studies have been
before-after studies with no control group, most of which report substantial
success. The largest randomized trial (Sherman, Gartin, and Buerger 1989)
reported that POP caused a 15 percent reduction in calls over 6 months in a
sample of some 250 residential locations, but not in a sample of 250 commercial
locations. A systematic review of randomized trials of POP found, on average,
that POP produces modest but clear reductions in the problems it targets
(Weisburd et al. 2010).

   What Police Do. Thousands of US and UK police are enthusiastic  [*406]  about
POP and often do it despite peer pressure not to. For many it is an
unacknowledged addition to their random patrol work, which many police agencies
have encouraged. What some, but still few, agencies have done is to create
either specialized units of experts in POP (such as the Minneapolis RECAP Unit)
or case management systems for identifying problems and assigning specific time
periods for specific officers to undertake POP work and be held accountable for
the results.

   7. Stop-and-Question.

   The Evidence. There is highly consistent evidence that stop-and-question or
stop-and-search causes reductions in weapons violence and homicide (Koper and
Mayo-Wilson 2006), based on seven out of seven quasi experiments reducing either
homicide or gunshot wounds. Repeated cross-sectional analyses across US cities
show lower levels of robberies and other crimes where police proactively issue
more traffic violations or make arrests for disorderly conduct (e.g., Kubrin et
al. 2010). No evidence exists on the life course effects of police stops on
those who are stopped, especially whether a contact with police that is seen as
hostile can engender defiance that increases future offending (Sherman 1993).
One survey of a residential area with high levels of gun violence found
substantial support for this practice among residents (Shaw 1995), but no
surveys were done of those stopped.

   What Police Do. For many police agencies, stop-and-question is an embedded
part of patrol practice in high-crime areas. Its use in crime hot spots in New
York and London is highly visible and highly controversial. Few debates
distinguish between the questions of how stops should be done and whether they
should be done at all. Many police agencies track the occurrence of stops, but
not their qualities of procedural fairness. As Reiss (1971) suggested, all
citizen encounters could end with police giving citizens a receipt with the
officer's identifying details and the date and time. Such a system could lead to
measures of quality.

   8. Covert Surveillance.

   The Evidence. The use of covert surveillance on repeat offenders alleged to
be committing serious crimes was tested in a Washington, DC, experiment (Martin
and Sherman 1986). Random assignment of surveillance, compared to a control
group, substantially increased the likelihood of a suspect being arrested as
well as convicted and sentenced to prison.

   What Police Do. Police rarely use covert surveillance against ongoing  [*407]
street crime. UK police use it sparingly for very serious sex offenders who have
been released from prison.

   9. Arrests for Domestic Assault.

   The Evidence. There is consistent evidence that arresting unemployed domestic
abusers causes more violence but no consistent evidence that arrest reduces
domestic violence. Three randomized controlled trials of arrests for domestic
assault have examined the interaction between employment and arrest on repeat
violence (Pate and Hamilton 1992; Sherman 1992b); a fourth examined the same
interaction on repeat domestic calls including arguments as well as violent
crime (Berk et al. 1992). All four tests showed that arrest had different
effects on employed suspects than on unemployed suspects. The three studies of
assault found that arrest reduced repeat crimes for employed suspects but
substantially increased repeat crimes for unemployed suspects. Two of the five
randomized trials of the main effect of arrest for assaults did not report tests
for an interaction effect with suspect employment. But the Milwaukee experiment
found that arrests for common assault caused significantly more domestic
violence repeat offending than an on-site warning even after 24 years (Sherman
and Harris 2012).

   What Police Do. Elected legislators have prevented police from using
evidence-based practice on domestic violence in over half of US states and all
across England and Wales. Either a legal or a policy mandate requires police to
make arrests whenever there is sufficient legal evidence to do so. Police in
some US agencies have widely ignored this mandate for decades (Ferraro 1989).
Others in the United States and most of the UK agencies have been more
compliant, but with frequent sensitivity to victims' preferences. New
experiments in policing domestic violence were launched in Hampshire (UK) in
2012, when evidence-based changes in policy were widely discussed across the
United Kingdom.

   10. Warrants for Domestic Assault.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that issuing an arrest warrant for an
absent domestic violence suspect has a "sword of Damocles" effect in suppressing
repeat assaults. A randomized controlled trial in Omaha, Nebraska, enrolled
cases in which suspects had already left the scene before police arrived. The
police then randomly assigned either the standard police policy of advising the
victim how to pay for an arrest warrant to be issued in court or went to the
court to arrange  [*408]  issuance of a warrant free of any charge to the
victim. In the cases assigned to police-initiated warrants, there was
significantly less repeat violence reported by the victims of abuse to the
university interviewers. There were also substantially fewer police reports of
repeat offending (Dunford 1990).

   What Police Do. Police rarely issue warrants for simple assault. Some English
police go looking for an absent suspect when there is evidence of an assault and
"hand over" the case to the next shift if the absent suspect has not been found.
No evidence exists on the rate at which absent offenders are found or the rates
of those not found being subjected to a police-initiated warrant, but these
rates could be part of tracking.

   11. "Second Responder" Follow-ups after Domestic Incidents.

   The Evidence. Several randomized controlled trials have tested follow-up
visits by "second responder" police or social workers, or both, some days after
police have responded to a domestic violence call or made an arrest. A
systematic review of these experiments included both repeat calls to police and
interviews with the victims (Davis, Wiesburd, and Taylor 2008). The review found
no difference between the self-reported victimizations of those victims who had
been visited and those who had not, but there were more calls to the police
about new violence by those who had been visited than among those left alone.
While the evidence is ambiguous, second response cannot be considered
beneficial. Increased reporting might be of some benefit, but it may also just
indicate more violence.

   What Police Do. Few police agencies deploy second responders, yet some UK
agencies "invented" the idea in 2010-12 without knowledge of the results of the
Davis, Weisburd, and Taylor (2008) systematic review.

   12. Police-Led Restorative Justice Conferences.

   The Evidence. Eight randomized controlled trials have tested police-led
restorative justice conferences (RJCs) with crime victims, their offenders, and
their respective friends or family in Australia (two), the United Kingdom
(five), and the United States (one). Seven of these eight tests found a
reduction in repeat offending among offenders assigned to restorative justice
(Sherman and Strang 2012). The one failure had a high proportion of Aboriginal
offenders, for whom restorative justice badly backfired (Sherman et al. 2006). A
systematic review and meta-analysis of these experiments, combined with two
others in  [*409]  which nonpolice led the conference, found an average effect
that was small but statistically significant among robbers, burglars, violent
offenders, and property offenders (Strang et al. 2013).

   What Police Do. Few Anglo-Celtic police officers were leading RJCs in 2012,
although other kinds of people led them frequently in New Zealand and Northern
Ireland. Police in England and Wales have been trained to use a "mini" version
of these conferences in street settings, immediately after responding, which are
often called "restorative disposals" or "community resolutions." This version of
RJCs has not been tested.

   13. Prosecution of Juveniles.

   The Evidence. There is good evidence that when police prosecute most juvenile
offenders, they cause more crime than they prevent--at least among those
offenders. In 29 randomized controlled trials over four decades, in studies
enrolling a total of 7,304 juvenile offenders, those who were prosecuted after
arrest had more repeat offending than those who were diverted or cautioned
(Petrosino, Turpin-Petrosino, and Guckenburg 2010). All tests were conducted in
the United States except two of the restorative justice experiments in
Australia. The offenders had committed a range of property and less serious
violent crimes. Those who were diverted from prosecution had lower offending
rates when the disposition required them to do less follow-up work, and the best
success was found with no conditions at all.

   What Police Do. Police practices with juvenile offenders remain mixed and
largely unmeasured. In the United Kingdom, there has been a substantial increase
in formal prosecution since 1975, but this trend may have reversed since 2010.

   14. Neighborhood Watch.

   The Evidence. Neighborhood watch appears to cause a small but consistent
reduction in rates of burglary and other crimes. A systematic review examined 18
quasi-experimental controlled tests of neighborhood watch programs, either alone
or in combination with other situational prevention strategies, such as property
marking and home security surveys (Bennett, Holloway, and Farrington 2006).
Crime was measured by both police-recorded crime and victimization surveys. The
review found, on average, statistically significant crime reductions of 16-26
percent. Given the low levels of crime in many of the middleclass neighborhoods
in which the tests were done, it remains unclear whether the crime reductions
were cost-effective. Yet that issue can be  [*410]  raised about any evidence of
a positive effect of a police strategy relative to a control group.

   What Police Do. There is no good evidence about what police do in
neighborhood watch programs after a local group has held its first meeting.
There appears to be no tracking evidence on how much time police invest in
starting or maintaining neighborhood volunteer interest in preventing crime.
Signs warning would-be offenders that "this area is protected by neighborhood
watch" are ubiquitous in many US suburbs, but whether there have been any
neighborhood meetings to discuss crime in months or years is impossible to say.

   15. Drug Abuse Resistance Education (DARE).

   The Evidence. Repeated quasi experiments (Sherman et al. 1998) and a major
randomized controlled trial (Perry et al. 2003) have failed to show that the
standard DARE program reduces drug use or delinquency. The Perry et al. trial of
24 schools in Minneapolis did find that a greatly enhanced program called DARE
Plus reduced multidrug use (but not marijuana use) among boys, with no effect on
girls. But Dare Plus involved much greater use of parents than the standard DARE
program, which relies heavily on police visits to classrooms for its delivery.

   What Police Do. According to the DARE America home page, 220 US communities
started DARE programs over the preceding 3 years-- more than one per week. These
new startups are in addition to the website's claim that 75 percent of the more
than 14,000 US school districts offer DARE programs. Despite the example of
former Mayor Rocky Anderson of Salt Lake City, Utah (population 190,000),
ordering his police department in 2000 to stop wasting money on DARE (which he
called a "fraud"; Eyle 2001-2), most US police agencies still appear to be
sending police officers into classrooms to talk about drugs--with no
demonstrated return on the taxpayers' cost.

   16. "Pulling Levers": Focused Deterrence.

   The Evidence. The use of directed sanction threats to specific individuals
and groups gained worldwide attention when it preceded a complete cessation of
youth homicide in Boston in the 1990s. A systematic review of 10
quasi-experimental evaluations of this approach, seven of which used
nonequivalent (unmatched) control groups, examined the effect of this strategy
on such crimes as homicide and gang violence, mostly at the citywide level
(Braga and Weisburd 2012). The review found that nine out of 10 evaluations
showed statistically significant  [*411]  reductions in crime. Given the many
threats to the internal validity of these evaluations, the review authors
described the evidence as "promising."

   What Police Do. Police in communities with high homicide rates, from Trinidad
to Scotland, often try to replicate the "Boston miracle," which has received
further attention from David Kennedy's (2008, 2011) books on his experiences in
Boston and elsewhere.

C. Tracking Outputs and Outcomes

   1. Police Killings of Citizens.

   The Evidence. Fifty years ago, criminologist Gerald Robin (1963) published
the first cross-city comparison of the rates at which police committed
justifiable homicide against the citizens of their communities. This study
helped to spark two decades of research on the issue (e.g., Sherman and
Langworthy 1979; Fyfe 1980, 1982; Sherman 1980, 1983) that supported an appeal
of a police killing case to the US Supreme Court (Tennessee v. Garner, 471 U.S.
1 [1985]). The later research showed that limiting police killings to
defense-of-life situations had reduced deaths, without any increases in crime or
violence against police. The Garner decision, which cited the research evidence,
ruled that common law powers to kill unarmed fleeing felons were an
unconstitutional seizure without due process. The decision restricted police
powers to kill in over half of the 50 US states.

   What Police Do. Tennenbaum (1994) reports that killings by US police, which
had already been dropping prior to the 1985 Garner decision, dropped by 16
percent in its immediate aftermath. He also showed that police shootings for all
reasons, not just to catch fleeing felons, declined. Most US police shootings
are now tracked very closely, and police gun use is regulated by agency managers
far more intensely than in 1975. Police killings in the United States have risen
and fallen since then, but shootings of unarmed fleeing felons have virtually
disappeared.

   2. Police Use of Force.

   The Evidence. In the mid-1970s, city manager-run police agencies began to
require police to file a use-of-force report each time they used weapons,
handcuffs, or physical restraint against a citizen (Croft 1985). This paper file
tracking system enabled police managers to identify statistical outliers in the
frequency of use-of-force reports, as well as to justify in court or arbitration
hearings any dismissal of overly  [*412]  frequent users of force from police
service. An independent commission led by Warren Christopher (1991) in the
aftermath of the Los Angeles Police Department's Rodney King case documented
extreme concentrations of use of force among a small percentage of police
officers.

   What Police Do. Use-of-force reports are now widely used in the United
States, usually with stand-alone digital databases that allow frequent in-house
tracking analysis of the evidence. Litigation over police use of force is
defended with this evidence and possibly even prevented by managerial
application of these analyses to personnel and assignment decisions.

   3. Complaints against Police.

   The Evidence. In 1975, systems for receiving, recording, investigating, and
resolving citizen complaints against the police were very scarce. Cities as big
as Louisville, Kentucky, made it almost impossible for citizens to complain
against police (Sherman 1976). By the mid- 1980s, most US cities over 100,000
recorded and investigated complaints against police. By 2012 most US and UK
forces had computerized systems for tracking complaints by officer
characteristics, complainant characteristics, area demographics, type of
encounters, and other factors of managerial interest.

   What Police Do. Most large police agencies in 2012 had "professional
standards" units reporting to the police executive on trends and patterns in
complaints against police. Few of these, however, appear to be adjusting the
analyses for such crucial risk factors as how many encounters each officer had
with citizens each year, in each unit, or in each area. As in tracking evidence
generally, police managers often look at raw data that are not meaningful unless
they are standardized by relevant denominators (Kahneman 2011). High levels of
complaints may indicate high levels of misconduct. But unless complaints are
divided by contacts, they could also indicate a high level of professional
commitment to making as many appropriate contacts (and arrests) as possible.
Fairness alone requires the use of a standardizing denominator, as well as good
tracking measurement.

   4. Trust and Confidence in Police.

   The Evidence. There is now abundant research tracking trust and confidence in
policing. A recent government in the United Kingdom made public confidence the
single performance measure it said would be used to judge police performance.
Yet no governmental data supplement  [*413]  raw data with risk-adjusted data,
the latter taking into account factors affecting public confidence that are
irrelevant to police performance. Risk factors for public confidence may include
population demographics, structural inequality, lack of collective efficacy
(Sampson and Bartusch 1998), cultural backgrounds of populations, and other
factors (e.g., Jackson and Bradford 2009). There is a great need for better
risk-adjusted models of "expected" levels of trust and confidence in police.

   What Police Do. Many police agencies fail to track trust and confidence at
all. Some track raw levels citywide, and a few track it by neighborhoods. There
appears to be no use of risk-adjusted confidence measures in any of the police
agencies from 10 countries whose representatives were asked about this in recent
classes of the Cambridge Police Executive Programme.

   5. COMPSTAT.

   The Evidence. Since 1975, nothing has done more than the COMPSTAT idea to
increase the availability of evidence for tracking police performance at micro
levels of activity. At highly structured and periodic meetings of senior police
officials, operational commanders report the tracking data on their crime
patterns and (less often) on their anticrime strategies. Pioneered by Bratton
(1998) and Maple (1999), the COMPSTAT program was probably the first police
"interaction ritual" (Collins 2004) to make a "sacred" meaning. By reporting the
crime trends within days rather than months at very local levels, the
institutional meaning and police legitimacy associated with crime control became
far more intense than they had ever been before (Willis, Mastrofski, and
Weisburd 2007). My own observations in the NYPD in 1972 and in 1995 revealed an
enormous increase under COMPSTAT in the extent to which specific evidence about
crime and police practices was portrayed in statistical and graphical
visualizations. My own attempt to introduce something similar for the mayor of
Indianapolis in 1994-95 had failed to mobilize the same kind of intensity,
largely because the New York version engaged almost 200 people in the room
listening very closely (compared to six or seven in Indianapolis). New York also
used COMPSTAT with its unusually great legal authority to press unambitious area
commanders to retire and to reward successful commanders with
promotions--something few other agencies are able to do. NYPD officials who had
used COMPSTAT moved to other large cities, where they also used COMPSTAT for
citywide reviews of specific issues, from domestic violence to police  [*414]
corruption (Sherman 1978). No other system of tracking evidence on outcomes or
outputs has been so influential or comprehensive.

   What Police Do. In 1999, some 5 years after New York's COMPSTAT had become
highly publicized, the Police Foundation conducted a national survey of US
police agencies in cities over 100,000 residents (Weisburd et al. 2004). The
survey found that over half of those agencies (with an 85 percent response rate)
either had adopted a COMPSTAT-like program or were planning to do so. In the
early twenty-first century, COMPSTAT-like meetings were held regularly in many
UK police agencies. Few such meetings, however, track the key question under
discussion: where are the police doing what, and for how much of their time on
duty? That is a question that two major advances in technology will soon make it
easier to answer.

   6. GPS Tracking of Officer Locations.

   The Evidence. Police agencies have been able to track the locations of police
cars since at least the 1980s but have rarely done so. Police unions once
resisted the idea, especially in the 1970s, when some US officers regularly
slept in their cars on the midnight shift. The rise of GPS devices in police
radios and "smart" phones now makes it possible to track the whereabouts of each
officer every few minutes or seconds. Police officers also seem more willing to
allow this, if only as a safety device that could enable a rapid response of
other police to help them. An experiment in providing police supervisors with
data on how much time each patrol officer spent at directed patrols in crime hot
spots has been completed in Dallas, with encouraging results (Weisburd 2012).
Other experiments testing the use of tracking evidence for effects on police
performance are needed to determine whether tracking at this level of detail is
cost-effective or not.

   What Police Do. From the limited evidence available, it appears that as of
2012, no major police agency has made statistical use of GPS data about
locations of police outputs as a standard part of tracking or COMPSTAT. For
reasons discussed in the first section of this essay, however, it seems likely
that such tracking will be widespread by 2025.

   7. Body-Worn Video.

   The Evidence. Inexpensive body-worn video (BWV) cameras with long-running
batteries came on the market around 2010. As a student in the Cambridge Police
Executive Program, Police Chief Tony Farrar of Rialto, California, decided to
test the hypothesis that police officers wearing BWV would generate fewer
complaints from encounters with  [*415]  citizens. One theory is that officers
would be more polite and compliant with rules knowing that every word and action
was on digital record. The other theory states exactly the same for citizens
encountering police. In a randomized controlled trial of police shifts in which
all patrol officers either did or did not wear the cameras, Farrar (2013) found
initial evidence of fewer complaints on shifts when officers wore their BWV
devices. Given spillover diffusion effects to shifts when officers did not wear
cameras, it was no surprise that total complaints against police dropped
sharply. Related hypotheses can be tested in this design for the rates at which
arrestees plead guilty as charged or the rates at which either citizens or
police are injured in their encounters. Note that this evidence is a prime
example of testing a means of tracking police performance as distinct from
testing the effects of performance itself. It asks whether tracking has benefits
regardless of what police do and whether tracking improves police quality.

   What Police Do. BWV is at a very early stage of development in policing. One
UK agency tried to incorporate it into stop-and-question procedures, but
citizens who were stopped refused to answer questions while police had their
cameras on. A large Australian police agency has had problems with equipment
failures. What no agency appears to have tried is the use of BWV to replace
typing, with video-recorded crime reports, victim and investigative interviews,
and other work. Such use of videos could keep police out of stations typing up
text for many hours when they could be on patrol taking video statements as well
as increasing patrol visibility. In the United Kingdom's ongoing effort to "cut
red tape" and reduce reports, no solution could be easier or more elegant than
downloading police video and audio as a digital logbook. If text reports need to
be created for any reason, including prosecution, then civilian video
specialists can do that rather than police trained to patrol, prevent, and
investigate.

D. Summary: Knowledge and Its Use

   The examples offered above support a key conclusion: there has been a massive
growth of policing knowledge over the levels in 1975. Equally important is a
second conclusion: there has been less progress in using knowledge than in
generating it. But the crude (and perhaps inaccurate) measures of evidence in
practice fail to suggest what may be the most important point: that police
interest in using evidence grew most rapidly in the last decade before 2012.
Even though the 1980s  [*416]  was the most intense period for producing police
research, the 2000s and 2010s were the most intense periods for consuming it. If
the demand for evidence continues to grow, so may the future production of
evidence.

   III. Improving Triple-T: Targeting, Testing, and Tracking

This section highlights the major conceptual issues that must be addressed for
policing to use evidence in a fully professional way. These issues all relate to
the way in which the concept of evidence is defined. The greatest threat to
police professionalism is that the word "evidence" will be hijacked to mean what
it is intended to replace: intuition, anecdote, and opinion. Just because a word
is fashionable does not mean that people who use it will understand it, let
alone accept it and agree with its message. Even with the best of intentions,
the word "evidence" is often applied incorrectly by people who lack adequate
training in how evidence should be used. This risk requires that police leaders
and scholars pay close attention to the integrity of the concept and
relentlessly challenge any claims that "the evidence shows" when no such
evidence exists.

   This threat has major implications for how police training and promotion
processes teach and communicate about evidence-based practices. Simple lists of
"best practices" may have great value in some contexts. But for people sitting
at conference tables deciding on what best practices they should adopt,
simplicity is not good enough. Policing is a complex enterprise, and so is
drawing conclusions from evidence. People analyzing evidence need to be
qualified to do so, one way or another. At minimum, they should understand the
concepts presented in this section.

   It is reassuring that these same conceptual issues bedevil other complex
enterprises as well. There is nothing wrong with police thinking about evidence
that is not also wrong with the thinking of highly seasoned politicians
(Issenberg 2012), baseball managers (Lewis 2003), and nuclear power plant
engineers (Silver 2012, chap. 5). As Kahneman (2011) demonstrates, it is very
hard for humans to discipline their thinking away from intuitive snap judgments
("system I") to accept more systematic analyses that follow strict rules of
evidence ("system II"). Fortunately, he concludes that it is at least possible
for humans to achieve that discipline, but only if we work pretty hard at it.

    [*417]  This section considers four questions. Most important is the
question of what good evidence is, and what it means to make policing
"evidence-based." The other three questions cover related issues in targeting,
testing, and tracking. The targeting subsection introduces the concept of a
crime harm index as the best way to measure what matters in valuing police
effectiveness. The testing subsection shows how testing is increasingly done by
"pracademics," not just academics. The tracking subsection discusses how to use
evidence for ensuring better implementation of evidence-based policies.

A. What Is Good Evidence?

   What is "good evidence"? This question must be addressed almost daily if
policing is to raise its level of professionalism. Even among those strongly
committed to using good evidence, it is easy to lose the core principles of
testing.

   At an early meeting of the Society of Evidence-Based Policing, for example, a
presentation led a session chair to endorse an innovation in taking witness
statements that had just been described by two presenters. One speaker described
laboratory tests of the new procedure, while the other speaker described its use
in ( just) three cases in the field. No controlled field test had been
conducted, nor any test measuring the key outcome of conviction rates. Yet on
the basis of the strong results of the lab experiments, the session chair
enthusiastically described the research as "really strong" evidence and
suggested that it was unethical for police at the conference not to adopt the
innovation. I felt compelled to challenge that claim by pointing out the major
difference between laboratory and field tests. I noted that "evidence-based
medicine" limits its definition of evidence to field tests only, viewing lab
tests as a necessary precursor to testing treatments on real people. In this
police context, this means that the proper channel for the enthusiasm we all
felt for the innovation would be to conduct a randomized field experiment, which
had not yet been done. The session chair readily accepted this amendment to his
initial conclusion. Yet few advocates of new ideas would be so open-minded as
the session chair, who is widely seen as one of the most promising police
leaders in Britain. It is people like him who will make a key difference in how
well evidence is understood, used, and defined.

   In science, as in law, "evidence" is an objective finding that can be
confirmed by repeated observations of independent observers and that  [*418]
can help to support a conclusion. Most people, as philosopher David Hume (1748)
observed, find great difficulty in accepting that their own subjective
impressions, hunches, prejudices, theories, or opinions are not objective
evidence. As the late Senator Daniel P. Moynihan observed, "the plural of
anecdote is not data." The rules of science and statistics require many complex
procedures and conceptual tests in order to establish that evidence is reliable,
including probability sampling, causal inference, selection bias, statistical
power, confidence intervals, and many other challenges to deciding what is a
"fact"--let alone whether the known facts can support a conclusion. The US
Supreme Court in Daubert v. Merrell Dow (509 U.S. 579 [1993]) codified these
principles into federal court procedures for admitting scientific evidence of
all kinds.

   At a more advanced level of understanding, the challenge is grasping the full
breadth of decision-making processes for which good evidence is
essential--including but not limited to targeting, testing, or tracking. To some
critics, "evidence" is only about testing, or even just about randomized
controlled trials. To baseball fans familiar with the Moneyball story of the
Oakland Athletics team (Lewis 2003), it is all about targeting: hiring the most
cost-effective baseball players by replacing experienced baseball scouts with
computer geeks. To some observers of President Obama's "victory lab" (Issenberg
2012), better evidence means replacing intuitive political "gurus" with
computerized "geeks" for tracking the delivery of more favorable voters to the
polls.

   These partial understandings of evidence-based practice converge on a single
"straw man" caricature: that quantitative thinking beats--and should
replace--qualitative judgment. Nothing could be further from the truth. As the
doctors who helped develop evidence-based medicine argued, the best evidence is
a blend of individual clinical experience with the best quantitative and
qualitative "external" evidence: research findings and experience about similar
cases or problems (Sackett et al. 1996). As baseball statistician Nate Silver
(2012, p. 100) observed, two baseball players could have identical statistics,
but one could spend his evenings volunteering at a homeless shelter while the
other is snorting cocaine in nightclubs. He writes that "there is probably no
way to quantify this distinction. But you'd sure as hell want to take it into
account."

   Similarly, if a police commander knows that a robbery hot spot has developed
in a racially tense minority area (targeting) and that the  [*419]  average
effect of doubling police patrols in robbery hot spots is to cut robbery 50
percent (testing), that is not enough evidence for a good decision. The
commander would also think of many other qualitative factors, such as the recent
or long history of police-community relations in that area, the extent to which
stop-and-frisk would be used, the likely weather or school vacations, the
availability of minority group officers to work in the area, and the track
record or personality of a sergeant who would directly supervise any effort to
double patrols. The commander might also wish to consult with neighborhood
leaders on how best to bring in more patrols, perhaps with a handout flyer for
police to give everyone they encounter on the streets--a practice for which
there is experimental evidence from Australia (Mazerolle et al. 2013).

   Evidence-based practice does not and cannot replace judgment based on
experience. It can only inform such judgment, and usually improve it. Attempts
to portray EBP as trying to replace rather than supplement experience (Sparrow
2011) are merely "noise" in relation to the signal. Not even baseball teams, as
Silver (2012, pp. 105-6) points out, replaced qualitative scouts with
quantitative geeks after the events depicted in Moneyball (Lewis 2003). Instead,
baseball teams increased their investments in both, integrating qualitative and
quantitative information supported by a profession-led science (see Weisburd and
Neyroud 2011).

   The body of knowledge supporting EBP embraces and incorporates police
experience and craft skills. It does not replace traditional thinking about
legality, legitimacy, and common sense. Nor does it replace the wisdom and
experience of police professionals. What it adds to these assets is the crucial
step of an objectivity check about questions that have often been answered on
the basis of subjective opinions (Sherman 1998): is there any systematic,
scientifically generated evidence that bears on the decisions we are about to
make? Moreover, is the evidence the right kind of evidence for the decision?

   While the meaning of the phrase "what works in policing" may seem obvious, it
is not. Whether a prediction model "works" simply means whether its predictions
are accurate; no randomized controlled experiment is needed. Whether GPS works
to track police locations accurately is simply a matter of auditing by physical
tests: there is no cause and effect relationship, just measurement reliability.
Whether arrest for domestic violence works, however, is a matter of testing for
cause and  [*420]  effect. This means that in a controlled experiment, cases in
which police made arrests would have to have had less repeat offending than in
cases in which police did not make arrests. That is why the Maryland Scale of
Scientific Methods, levels 1-5 (Sherman et al. 1998), is relevant to testing
police actions in triple-T but not to assessing the accuracy of predictions for
police targeting decisions. The Maryland scale is also irrelevant for audits,
measures, and descriptions intended for tracking police performance. The best
evidence for answering any question of "what works" thus depends on "which T?"

   Table 1 summarizes the different standards for good evidence of "what works"
for the three different Ts. The left-hand column shows three different levels of
strength of evidence, combining several key dimensions: replications of evidence
collection (for measurement reliability), consistency of findings (for content
reliability), and--only in the case of testing--the capacity of the research
design to rule out other causes besides the police practice being tested. These
standards are certainly subject to debate. But perhaps the bare minimum,
rock-bottom standard for EBP is this: a comparison group is essential to every
test to be included as "evidence" that a police decision causes a certain
result. That was the standard used for reporting on evidence to the US Congress
(Sherman 1998), and the global police profession should arguably have standards
that are at least as high or higher.

   These distinctions illustrate the need for police professionals to raise
their game in mastering the (scientific) rules of evidence. What follows is an
overview of some of the key issues and of my ideas for addressing them. Further
readings of the sources cited would be useful for anyone who proposes to use or,
especially, produce evidence for policing.

B. Issues in Targeting Resources

   The targeting of scarce resources can be compared to an investment portfolio.
Like police agencies, investors have a variety of objectives, such as growth,
income, and security. Like police, investors make a variety of investments to
accomplish different objectives. Like police, investors face an endless array of
choices about how to invest scarce resources. But investors have one great
advantage over police that makes the investors' job much easier: a common
currency. Police can have a common currency as well, but only if they create it.

   This subsection starts by describing a way in which police can guide
targeting decisions with a common currency of return on investment.  [*422]  It
then shows how different methods of predicting returns of investment in that
currency will produce much higher or lower rates of error in making targeting
decisions, including the new decision tool called "predictive policing," as well
as the neglected tool called "solvability factors." TABLE 1 "Good Evidence"
Scales for Different Kinds of Police Decisions: Criteria for Strength of
Evidence

   1. A Crime Harm Index. The biggest obstacle to reducing crime may be the
misleading way in which it is counted: as a raw summation of all crimes,
regardless of any differences in public views of the seriousness of harm across
crime categories (Rossi et al. 1974). From Washington to London to Delhi,
governments earnestly report whether there were more "crimes" this year than
last. This count of the crime total treats every crime as equal.

   All crimes are not created equal. Some crimes cause horrible injuries and
deaths. Others cause scant meaningful harm to anyone, such as possessing a
1-inch joint of marijuana. Crime counts are dominated by such high-volume but
minor crimes as shoplifting from large chain stores. In England and Wales, only
10 percent of reported crimes in the 12 months to October 2012 included injury
or a sex offense. Yet public officials are pleased to report "success" when
total crime drops and displeased when total crime counts rise--even if murders,
rapes, and serious woundings stay constant. If EBP accepts this "fungibility
fallacy" that all crimes are equal, its value will be greatly restricted.

   Police professionals are acutely sensitive to the idea that the weight of
harm from crime matters more than a raw count of incidents (Sherman 2011a). They
know that a car theft is less harmful than a rape, that a £ 5,000 fraud is less
harmful than a stabbing. What they lack is a way to account for these
differences in combination across all crimes. This would allow police to know
whether total harm from crime in one city is higher this year than last, higher
in this part of town than that, or with this offender's record compared to that
one's.

   The best way to compile meaningful "evidence" about reported crime is to give
each type of crime a weight that represents how harmful each type of crime is.
Combining crime in this way would create what statisticians call an "index,"
yielding a single bottom line. The weight can be based on a variety of metrics.
The simplest metric would be taken from any sentencing guideline recommendations
of the number of days in prison for a first offender convicted of that offense.
This would give an approximation of the "pure" weight of harm of the offense
itself in contrast to the actual sentence length an offender may  [*423]
receive--the latter being influenced by the number of prior convictions of the
offender.

   Summing the total weight for each type of any indicator (such as crime
types), then adding the subtotal weights together, is the basis for a commonly
used method of constructing an "index" of multiple indicators. A consumer price
index (CPI), for example, takes the cost of consumer goods in different
categories (food, housing, transportation) and then assigns a weight to those
costs based on the average household's budget proportions for each category. If
housing costs rise 10 percent but housing is only 33 percent of the family's
budget, then the housing increase of 10 percent becomes a 3.3 percent increase
in the total CPI. Similarly, a crime harm index (CHI) is a tool for creating
just such a bottom line for the harm caused by crime (Sherman 2007, 2010,
2011a).

   Weighting crimes on the basis of sentencing guidelines can be justified on
good democratic grounds as reflecting the will of the people. Almost every
sentencing guideline process in the United States and United Kingdom has
reflected awareness of opinion polls, debates, and scrutiny by elected officials
and news media. The scrutiny may not have been perfect. Yet it remains far
closer to the will of the people than any theoretical or even empirical system
of weighting that academics might develop. Most important, it is readily
available to be applied to any set of crimes, whether for an individual, a
community, or a nation.

   Any police agency or government can construct its own index with the
following seven steps:


     1. counting up the number of crimes of each type in an area (or for
     one offender);
     2. multiplying the count for each type by the median number of prison
     days recommended for crimes of that type by first offenders;
     3. calling the product of that multiplication (crime count for a crime
     type x median days in prison) the HST for the crime type (for harm
     subtotal of days of prison for that offense type);
     4. repeating steps 1, 2, and 3 for every type of crime recorded for
     the area or person;
     5. summing up all HSTs to yield the total crime harm (TCH);
     6. creating a standardized CHI for any area or population by dividing
     the estimated population size into the TCH to yield the  [*424]  CHI
     in that time period for that area (where population size estimates
     should ideally include the average daily transient counts, such as
     [adjusted] arrivals minus departures by train and bus);
     7. creating a standardized CHI for any individual offender by dividing
     the person's TCH by the number of years the person has been at risk of
     committing crime as an adult (usually since age 18), either removing
     days in prison or not, depending on data availability.

   As an example of how a CHI works, consider a community (or an offender) with
100 crimes in the record. Assume that the recommended sentence for a shoplifting
crime is 1 day in prison and that the recommended sentence for a first
manslaughter is 10 years in prison, or 3,650 days. If all 100 crimes are
shoplifting cases, the CHI value of those 100 crimes would be 100 days. If all
100 crimes are manslaughter cases, then the CHI value would be 10 x 3,650 p
36,500. In both cases the crime count is 100, but the range of CHI varies from
100 in the first example to 36,500 in the second. Which would tell voters more
about how safe or dangerous their community is? By creating a more sensitive
bottom line, a CHI can show much more transparently whether the harm from crime
is higher or lower depending on the exact nature of the crimes.

   To translate a CHI into an overall targeting plan, police leaders can simply
use a checklist of possible targets to pick one or more ways of organizing a
resource targeting strategy. Such a strategy can be based on hot spot places,
convicted offenders, repeat victims, crime "recruiters" (see below), criminal
networks, predicted crime patterns, times of day, days of the week, situations,
or crime types. Any of these will do, as long as the analysis is comprehensive.
That is, a CHI analysis of all of these units should encompass 100 percent of
the CHI for the entire jurisdiction.

   Perhaps the greatest value of a CHI would be in using it to forecast how much
harm an individual offender, suspect, or defendant is likely to cause in the
next 2 years. Such forecasts can help guide the massive use of police discretion
to divert cases from prosecution into out-of-court penalties--constituting some
50 percent of all nontraffic penalties in England and Wales (Judge 2010). The
legitimacy of policing could be enhanced by using these forecasts to reduce the
risk of releasing a very dangerous offender who may, for example, soon murder
[*425]  someone. Such forecasting can provide missing evidence for the existing
system of "triage" in allocating scarce tax revenues for maximum public benefit.

   The triage of targeting police resources embraces all police services. Better
evidence can make the likely consequences of these hard choices clearer to those
who must make them. A standard metric, such as a CHI, for predicting the benefit
of one choice over another can make such evidence much easier to apply in
practice.

   2. Good and Bad Predictions--or Forecasts. No matter what currency police use
to target police resources, the evidence they need to make good decisions is a
reliable forecast of future events. They may prefer to have a prediction, but
predictions are far less reliable than forecasts. The difference between a
forecast and a prediction is crucial, as the scientists who study earthquakes
know to their cost. Silver (2012, p. 149) reports that in seismology,


     1. a prediction is a definitive and specific statement about when and
     where an earthquake will strike: a major earthquake will hit Kyoto,
     Japan on June 28.
     2. a forecast is a probabilistic statement, usually over a longer time
     scale: there is a 60 percent chance of an earthquake in Southern
     California over the next thirty years.


Silver notes that the official position of the US Geological Survey (USGS) is
that earthquakes can be forecasted, but they cannot be predicted.

   Much the same can be said about evidence-based police targeting: it employs
forecasting, not precise predictions, about when and where crimes are likely to
occur. In the first published analysis of crime across every address in an
entire city, for example, there were many instances in which there was a 100
percent chance of crime at a specific address every 10 days (Sherman, Gartin,
and Buerger 1989). What the analysis did not do is to name a time and date when
the next robbery would occur at a specific place--nor the name of the robber(s)
or the victim( s). This same approach allowed Weisburd, Groff, and Yang (2012)
to undertake their remarkable forecasting of crimes over every street segment in
Seattle for a 16-year period. This work, for the first time, identified
different trajectories of crime by place, showing most kinds of places to have
highly stable levels of crime (high, medium, or low), while others were highly
variable.

    [*426]  Most crime forecasting takes the form of projecting the future on
the basis of the past, or what might be called "post-casting" based on long time
periods with stable estimates of risk. The time periods used to make a forecast
this way can be 1-15 years; the future time window in which the forecast applies
could be 6 months or a year. These forecasts have high levels of accuracy but
low levels of precision: they cannot tell police exactly where and when the next
crime will occur.

   A newer approach may offer both precision and accuracy, at least for
high-volume crime types. It uses more short-term analysis of changing crime
patterns to make short-term forecasts about where crime concentrations will soon
pop up. The originators of this approach, Bowers, Johnson, and Pease (2004),
developed ways to forecast the location of burglary hot spots before they had
even developed. Yet the method remained within the definition of a forecast
rather than claiming to predict the exact date, time, and location of each
crime.

   By 2010, a new tool for targeting claimed to offer far more exact
predictions. PredPol, the predictive policing company, sells police agencies
proprietary software that identifies extremely tight bounding of time and place
in which crime is predicted to occur. A New York Times story on the Santa Cruz
field test reported the following: "Based on models for predicting aftershocks
from earthquakes, [our equation] generates projections about which areas and
windows of time are at highest risk for future crimes by analyzing and detecting
patterns in years of past crime data. The projections are recalibrated daily, as
new crimes occur and updated data is fed into the program" (Goode 2011). The
fact that the USGS says that accurate earthquake prediction is not even possible
provides little comfort for PredPol's reliance on earthquake models. At this
writing no evidence is available for the accuracy of the forecasts or the crime
reduction benefits of using them. But if such predictions do prove to have high
reliability, they could make the targeting of police resources more valuable
than ever.

   What all these approaches offer, at least in principle, are empirical tests
of the accuracy of the forecasts. The evolution of evidence-based policing will
draw increasing attention to the results of those tests and no doubt compare
crime predictions in ways similar to Silver's (2012) own comparisons of election
forecasting by different polling companies. The bright line for evidence-based
targeting lies not between forecasting and prediction but between quantitative
methods and subjective judgments--also known as informed "guessing."

    [*427]  a. Three Methods of Targeting. There are three basic ways to make
statements about future harm, whether predictions or forecasts: subjective or
"clinical" methods, a checklist of tested factors, and "supercomputer" data
mining based on large sample sizes.

   By far the most common method is the subjective, intuitive, system I approach
based on experience with similar situations (Kahneman 2011). The second method
is a "checklist" approach that moves past experience from qualitative to
quantitative analysis. It translates prior experience into a more systematic
"algorithm" (the word statisticians prefer for a formula or equation) based on a
few consistent criteria, forcing the forecaster to answer a checklist of
weighted questions to make decisions about predictive factors found in large
samples of previous cases. Crime solvability factors (Eck 1979) provide an
example of the checklist approach. The third method requires the use of a
supercomputer performing massive calculations about each individual case in
relation to tens of thousands of similar but slightly different cases. Developed
initially by meteorologists, such "data-mining" predictions use massive amounts
of data on previous events to predict future events. It is especially useful in
forecasting very rare events, such as hurricanes or homicides.

   The primary published example of data mining in crime forecasting is the
classification of likely murderers with huge samples of previous cases: over
30,000 in Philadelphia (Berk et al. 2009) and 100,000 in England and Wales
(Sherman, Cosma, and Neyroud 2012). Like weather forecasting, individual
forecasting of crime risks uses the recent growth in supercomputers to find
highly specific combinations of predictors that raise the odds of fairly rare
events occurring. The Philadelphia forecast identifies the offenders on
probation who are most likely to be among the 2 percent of offenders on
probation who are charged with murder 75 times more often than the 60 percent of
probationers who are classified as low risk. The England and Wales models can
correctly classify low-risk offenders with 96 percent accuracy, or 4 percent
error in forecasting that they will not be convicted of a serious crime
(Sherman, Cosma, and Neyroud 2012).

   b. Clinical versus Statistical Predictions. Since at least the advent of
Freudian theory, professionals such as psychiatrists have been paid well to make
predictions about human behavior. These predictions have been based on detailed
analysis of an individual's personality and previous behavior. The method has
been highly respected. It is still used  [*428]  widely to decide whether
violent people are insane or criminally responsible for their conduct. Many
police agencies also use it to screen police recruits for mental health.

   Since the advent of mechanical calculators, a far less expensive approach to
prediction has been used by institutions dealing with large volumes of
decisions. From insurance companies to university admissions offices, decisions
have been made on the basis of classifying people by their numbers: how many
accidents, how high a test score, what average grades, how many speeding
violations, and so on. These characteristics can be recorded at much lower
expense than the cost of having a professional personality assessment, while
making exactly the same kind of predictions.

   Until Meehl's (1954) comparison of these inexpensive statistical methods to
the expensive clinical methods, no one had ever shown which method is more
accurate. Since then, no research has ever contradicted his central conclusion.
What Meehl found was that statistically validated predictions were always either
more accurate than clinical prediction or--at worst--just as good, at a much
lower cost. His book reviewed over 20 studies comparing subjective judgments of
trained professionals to rather modest combinations of numerical information
about the same people, organized according to a rule. Such rules are called
algorithms. The statistical predictions based on algorithms in Meehl's
comparison were very simple by modern standards, without extensive analysis.
Nonetheless, they usually did better than predictions made on the same cases
based only on open-ended interviews. Over 200 comparisons have now tested
Meehl's conclusions on a wide range of behaviors and phenomena. In some 60
percent of comparisons, statistical forecasting does much better than clinical.
In the rest, there is little difference, but statistics remain cheaper than
qualitative data for the same accuracy rate (Kahneman 2011, p. 223). There is no
convincing case in which clinical forecasting has beaten statistical forecasts.

   Until recently this debate had no relevance to policing since police made
little use of either kind of prediction in targeting their resources. Yet by the
early twenty-first century, police on both sides of the Atlantic had invested in
clinical prediction rather than in statistical forecasting. UK police developed
national policies for clinical prediction of serious domestic violence cases, as
well as risk assessments for sex offenders and other serious criminals. In the
United States, problem-oriented  [*429]  policing picked targets more
subjectively than systematically (Goldstein 1990). UK police employed entirely
subjective criteria for determining which people released from prison were
dangerous enough to justify an expensive Multi-Agency Public Protection
Agreement for preventing serious crime.

   The cost of subjective methods of crime forecasting often becomes apparent
when they are audited against what really happens. An analysis of cases of
domestic murder or attempted murder in one major UK police force did not find
one case of serious injury committed by someone who was on the list of dangerous
people; the lists of thousands of "dangerous" people had excluded all of the
fewer than 100 actual attackers (Thornton 2011). Some might say that proves the
success of the monitoring program; other might see it as evidence of vast
overprediction. Most important, there had been no investment in preventing the
attacks that ultimately occurred.

   3. Solvability Factors. In principle, evidence-based solvability factors
could substantially increase detection rates (Eck 1979). At minimum, their use
could achieve the same detection rates but at much lower cost. This approach
offers a major opportunity for evidence-based targeting. Yet it lacks a crucial
piece of evidence that is needed to recommend their widespread adoption.

The most important new evidence about statistical solvability factors would be a
randomized trial comparing the overall detection rates of a team of detectives
using tested solvability factors to target cases for investigation to those of a
team using unstructured discretion to target cases. By randomly assigning all
incoming cases to one or the other of the two teams, the experiment would yield
a valid estimate of using one system or the other. Even better, such an
experiment could use a CHI to weight the value of the cases in the two teams
resulting in prosecution. This would create an incentive for the investigators
to use harm weightings in combination with solvability factors to decide which
cases to investigate. The investigative results could then be compared by both
the CHI weight of the crimes solved and the criminal record of the criminals
accused.

C. Issues in Testing for Outcomes

   Evidence-based policing requires a clear understanding of the difference
between "trying" and "testing." Many police agencies say they have "evidence"
that a police practice "works" because they have  [*430]  "tried" it. Yet in
most cases, there is no good evidence gained from "piloting" a new practice or
"trying it out." The minimal standards of evidence from the kind of test that
should be used to guide policy require direct measurement of outputs and
outcomes and direct comparison of those outcomes with a control group's
outcomes. There is no better example than the case of the free chocolate.

   1. Trying versus Testing: The Chocolate Case. The Dorset (UK) police tried a
very interesting idea in Bournemouth in the early twenty-first century, when all
pubs still closed at 11:00 p.m. sharp. What happened between 11:00 and midnight
each evening was reportedly a big spike in the hourly number of fights. Many
fights happened while people were waiting in line at fish and chips shops,
hungry for their first food after drinking beer for 5 or 6 hours. A creative
police leader reasoned that this pattern--or problem, as Goldstein (1979)
defined it--was caused by low blood sugar, making people more irritable. The
Dorset police then tried handing out free chocolates to people waiting in line
for their takeaway food. Media reports at the time quoted police saying the idea
"worked."

   This brilliant idea appears, however, never to have been tested at the
standard required by evidence-based policing. I found no report of any counts of
fights between 11:00 and midnight, either before or after the free chocolate
policy. The first standard of a scientific test is that there be consistently
defined and reliable measurement of both the problem to be solved--fights, in
this case--and the solution itself--in this case, chocolate. As a public health
doctor might ask, what was the dosage of chocolate handed out? How many
individuals took the chocolate? How many ate it? How many nights a week was the
chocolate handed out? Was it handed out equally at every fish and chips shop? If
not, were there fewer fights where there was more chocolate? Over a long enough
time period to constitute a statistically "powerful" test, by what percentage
did the average number of fights in Bournemouth between 11:00 and midnight go
down?

   Even if all those questions of measurement were answered, however, there
would still be no assurance that the chocolates had "worked" unless the second
standard of a test were to be met: a fair comparison to a control group that did
not receive the free chocolates. A control group could be selected from the
central entertainment area of a similar city nearby, which would constitute a
"level 3" test on the Maryland Scale of Scientific Methods (Sherman et al.
1998), the minimum level  [*431]  recommended for evidence on which to base
policy. Even better would have been the identification of 100 fish and chips
shops in Dorset's entertainment areas in multiple cities and towns, with 50 of
them selected at random for the free chocolate treatment.

   The distinction between "trying" and "testing" has become increasingly clear
to police leaders, if not the rank and file, in the United States and United
Kingdom over the past four decades. Yet the absolute comprehension level remains
low. It is hard to teach these concepts to senior police leaders in a short
conversation, even though they now feel obliged to discuss them as if they
understand them perfectly. The concept of testing has not, until recently, been
a part of police training, for leaders or street officers. But since 1996, the
Cambridge University Institute of Criminology has been teaching these ideas to a
large proportion of all the leaders who became chief constables. The success of
that teaching has been far from perfect. But it is no accident that the UK
police leadership spends far more time talking about the evidence for policies
than US police leaders do.

   What may work better than training is to have a much greater volume of
experiments going on in police agencies than ever before. Since 2010, this has
been happening in the United Kingdom if not in the United States. The downside
of this development may be less rigor and care in the conduct of experiments,
for reasons discussed below. These problems may be outweighed, however, by the
increased awareness they promote of the difference between trying and testing:
between evidence-free and evidence-based policing.

   2. What Works: Testing Practices, Using Tests. There are two ways for police
to find out whether a specific police practice is effective. One is to have
someone look for relevant evidence in the growing police research repositories
(see the Appendix). The other is for police to conduct tests in their own
agencies.

   In an ideal world, there would be so many tests of police services (as there
are of medical services) that EBP would operate primarily by "looking up" tests
rather than doing them. The EBP Matrix (Lum, Koper, and Telep 2010) and other
tools already make it easy to do this. Other tools for easy "lookups" are under
development, some of them designed for access via smart phones. The College of
Policing may even develop the ideas of computerized medicine for instant access
to relevant evidence (Hafner 2012).

   In the foreseeable future, however, many expensive police services  [*432]
will remain untested. The costs of conducting tests are minimal in comparison to
the costs of delivering untested services. And every time a police agency
contributes a high-quality cost-effectiveness test to the global police
literature, the entire world will gain.

   Unlike such agencies as the UK National Health Service, police are not yet
required to have randomized trials justify large portions of the police budget.
But it would be major progress if at least 10 or 20 percent of a police
operating budget could be based on good evidence. The most relevant question for
any police leader is, "which of our services is so expensive and of such
doubtful value that it is worthwhile to do our own local randomized controlled
trial?"

   a. Generalizability of Evidence. There is also a scientific question of how
reliably research in one police agency (or more) will predict effectiveness in
any other agency. The present state of science cannot say whether one, 10, or
even 20 strong tests are enough to generalize to all democracies, or even across
the country where the tests were done. This problem is confounded by the wide
range of results reported in such systematic reviews as the meta-analysis of the
effects of hot spot policing (Braga, Papachristos, and Hureau 2012). While the
average effect is beneficial, the range of effects is very great. Whether
another agency implementing some form of hot spot policing will achieve a large
or small effect remains highly uncertain from the available research.

   The external validity of results is also challenged by the wide variety of
practices tested, even under a common rubric like "hot spots policing." The
range of specific police methods of policing included in that review is almost
as great as the range of effect sizes (Braga, Papachristos, and Hureau 2012).
While the review is nonetheless a major contribution to the literature, the wide
range of research designs unavoidably strains the scientific definition of
"replication" on which the statistical procedures are premised. For example,
while the hot spot review found 11 randomized trials of hot spot policing (and
more have been finished since), only one of them tested a substantial increase
in marked car patrols in street corner hot spots. Other designs are of interest.
But for a police leader considering a 100 percent increase in hot spot patrols
at street corners, any other design is a different research question.

   For the foreseeable future, the best evidence on outcomes police agencies can
get will come from conducting their own experiments.  [*433]  Most readers may
wonder whether that idea is feasible or is a fantasy. The answer depends
entirely on who does the experiments: who designs them, leads them, and analyzes
them. Those tasks have been the traditional domain of police scholars, with
police practitioners as their partners. Yet a rapidly growing appetite for good
evidence will soon swamp the available numbers of experimental criminologists
unless they reinvent their partnerships with policing.

   b. Who Shall Test: The Police Themselves? From 1970 until 2010, police
testing was largely orchestrated by academics in universities who had found
police chiefs to partner with them. The experiments typically involved large
grants from foundations or national governments' research agencies (US National
Institute of Justice, UK Home Office, Australian Research Council). These grants
usually provided for well-trained and closely supervised doctoral students to
work with police in the delivery and measurement of the experimental variables,
ensuring independent quality control and monitoring of the data collection.
Senior academics would then analyze the data and write the report. Since the
number of academics interested in doing all this work was limited, the maximum
number of experiments was limited by human resources as much as by the tiny
overall funding stream for such experiments.

   Since around 2010, both funding and leadership barriers have started to fall.
Funding has been increasingly provided by police agencies, subsidized by
universities teaching police executives. The leadership of police experiments
has been moving from professors to "pracademics," as police
practitioner-academics increasingly describe themselves (e.g., Mitchell 2012).
While professional research scientists still play a strong role in designing and
analyzing police experiments, more of the massive labor of organizing people to
deliver good experiments is being shouldered by experienced police (e.g., Telep,
Mitchell, and Weisburd 2012). Many pracademics are launched on a path to earn a
doctoral degree, some in midcareer and some retired after 30 years in policing.
Whatever their background, they are rapidly increasing the numbers of people who
can produce good evidence on policing.

   This change is especially visible in the United Kingdom, where Cambridge
graduates form a critical mass to pioneer the new model for testing police
practices. This model has made possible a far greater volume of experimentation
because police officers from sergeant to police chief have designed and
delivered their own experiments. This  [*434]  benefit must be weighed against
important issues of quality control in the integrity of the random assignment,
the measures of outcomes, and other important issues. Even innovative solutions
like an online "randomizer" (Ariel, Vila, and Sherman 2012) may pose surprising
errors unless the experiment is closely monitored by a site manager (Neyroud and
Slothower 2013).

D. Issues in Tracking Police Outputs and Outcomes

   Three key issues shape the growth of tracking police outputs and outcomes.
One is how police leaders measure what police officers do. A second is how they
compare measures of performance across officers and units. The third is how they
use tracking data to deliver better policing by evidence-based management.

   1. Measuring What Police Do. For all the progress that COMPSTAT has brought
policing, it is striking how little measurement it has used of what police do.
In 1999-2005, for example, the Philadelphia Police Department's COMPSTAT never
reviewed data on where police patrolled, where they made arrests, where they
conducted stop-and-frisks, or even how many police were scheduled to work by
time or day in relation to the hourly frequency of crime in any police district.
In social science terms, COMPSTAT was a discussion of dependent variables
without any review of independent variables. They discussed crime patterns
endlessly each week, with rarely any evidence on policing.

   Since then, technologies such as GPS have made such measurement even easier.
All that is required is a commitment to tracking policing along with crime and
an investment in information technology to produce the data and graphics.
Mapping police presence in relation to crime harm, for example, would produce an
algorithm that could identify outliers. Wherever a patrol district deployed its
patrols (or arrests) in too great a departure from the occurrence of crime, a
list of such "exceptions" can be generated for police managers. If they fail to
correct the discrepancies, the lists can be reviewed in aggregate at COMPSTAT
meetings.

   2. Comparing Police Performance. One reason police activity is undermeasured
may be the risk of making inappropriate comparisons with disciplinary
implications. The number of arrests per officer, for example, is likely to be
much higher in certain areas than in others, if only because there is more crime
per square foot in some areas. Yet  [*435]  there are many ways to adjust for
these differences in order to create fair comparisons across officers and units.

   The critical tool for fair comparisons is a risk model for each policing area
. Such a model can be computed on the basis of any large sample, such as the
hundreds of local policing areas in England and Wales. The models can address
both police outputs and outcomes. Using social, economic, and demographic data,
the models can forecast how much work police will be asked to do reactively by
citizens and how much work they may choose to initiate proactively in relation
to social conditions. The models can estimate how many calls will be dispatched,
how many arrests may be made, and even how much force police will use with how
much injury to citizens and police.

   Once a risk model is found to be reliable in forecasting outputs or outcomes,
it can detect major changes in delivery of those measures over what was
predicted. If police produce more proactive work than predicted or less, the
model can say so. This could be done in a way that could confirm or disprove the
success of an area commander in delivering specific changes in police patrols,
arrests, problems solved, or any objective for police outputs.

   The greatest benefit of a fair comparisons model would be to link changes in
outputs to changes in crime harm (CHI). Within a range of error, these models
can forecast the likely CHI (or CHI per capita) in each area for each year. If a
change in outputs appears linked to changes in CHI outcomes, then police leaders
can begin to develop skill in relating these two tools at a strategic level. In
contrast, if there is no change in outputs but the CHI gets worse, that can be
taken as evidence of sudden changes in social conditions rather than as a
failure of policing. If police outputs worsen and the CHI rises, that can be
taken as evidence that police failures actually caused an increase in harm.

   This kind of macro-level strategic management is already the substance of
discussion in many COMPSTAT meetings. What it lacks is any kind of evidence
base. There are a few published studies, for example, of the effect of the ratio
of arrests to crime (output) on crime rates (outcome) themselves (Tittle and
Rowe 1974; Brown 1978; Chamlin 1991), but they would quickly be replaced by
current studies within large police agencies. Better evidence could lead to
better strategic decisions, with less crime harm as a result.

   3. Delivering Policing with Evidence-Based Management. The greatest  [*436]
value of measuring police performance comes from leaders taking immediate
corrective action. All too often, police leaders are flying blind about whether
policies or operations are being implemented. Tracking evidence provides
independent audits on a timely basis about whether the plans are being
delivered. If they are not, then commanders can be transferred and tighter
control can be imposed. If they are, then rewards can be given and medals can be
pinned.

   The use of tracking to focus on implementation can have major consequences.
For example, there is much controversy about whether stop-and-questioning in
minority areas reduces crime. By using tracking evidence for deciding whether
stop-and-question has been reducing robberies in minority group areas, a police
leader can ask to have stop-and-question encounters plotted against robberies.
If the answer is that very few stops have actually been done, the leader can
take stronger action to ensure that the policy is carried out. If the policy has
been delivered, the leader can ask what level of crime reduction is needed to be
cost-effective. At the same time, tracking may raise the question of police
legitimacy. Are complaints up since stops have increased? Are public surveys
needed? Should people who have been stopped be interviewed to assess their
reactions? Should training be refreshed on how to speak to suspects? Tracking
can often raise questions that would otherwise never be asked. Asking them
could, in turn, substantially improve service delivery.

   Tracking methods can even be subjected to testing for outcomes. In a Dallas
experiment, for example, Weisburd, Groff, and Yang (2012) randomly assigned GPS
information to some middle managers (and not others) showing how much time
officers were spending in their assigned hot spots. The experiment suggested
that the assignment of that information led to less crime in the high-crime hot
spots. Other experiments with tracking systems could profitably use similar
designs across police districts, across patrol beats, or even (in large police
agencies such as India's or Chile's with hundreds of police stations) across
police districts themselves.

E. Connecting the Three Ts

   Thinking of triple-T as a triangle may allow police leaders to think about
evidence in a more integrated way. Agencies can use the triangle to design
checklists of all the numbers that must be examined simultaneously in EBP. Like
the pilots who look at all the dials on the  [*437]  dashboard of a B-747
cockpit, police leaders must be aware of multiple sources of threat to smooth
performance. When all three Ts are able to be seen at once, the combined
triple-T can become a dynamic process: targets can be adjusted as crime goes
down on some targets and rises on others, tested treatments can change as the
types of targets shift, and tracking may look at different delivery indicators
as both targets and practices shift (fig. 2). No police agency stands still for
a day, let alone for a 3-year plan. Triple-T is a plan for a plan, for a
constantly updated plan, one that keeps changing as the facts change (O'Connor
2012). FIG. 2.--The dynamic process of triple-T

   Connecting the Ts may be the best response to a major challenge to EBP:
quantitatively derived conclusions are often hard to sell. When the conclusion
directly challenges conventional thinking, acceptance of evidence requires
nothing less than a culture change. This phenomenon has been observed repeatedly
in medicine (Giluk and Rynes-Weller 2012), baseball (Lewis 2003), and politics
(Issenberg 2012). Yet these cases also offer much hope that experience and
evidence can work together (Silver 2012, chap. 3). That is what can happen to
make culture change more likely to succeed. The open window may be a need to cut
budgets and to do more with less.

   By connecting policy decisions on tested services with policy decisions on
what to target, police leaders can develop a clear dialogue about hard choices.
Operational police may accuse them of "robbing Peter to pay Paul," as if all
priorities are of equal importance. But the use of evidence to make those
decisions can disprove that claim. By combining the seriousness of the harm
being targeted with the effectiveness of the police practice being considered
for a target, police leaders can compare two different choices for their likely
cost-benefit ratios. If spending $ 10,000 can yield a 25 percent reduction in
the harm  [*438]  of a robbery pattern but only a 10 percent reduction in the
harm of a burglary pattern, the better choice may seem obvious. It is not. The
key evidence in such a choice would be the absolute levels of harm associated
with the burglary pattern and the robbery pattern. Creating or using such a
metric is not routinely done in EBP--yet. But it could be the key to pulling
triple-T into a viable operating system. That key is the idea of a crime harm
index, which may ultimately be the key to sustaining EBP.

   IV. Future Prospects for Evidence in Policing


     The best way to predict your future is to create it. (Attributed to
     Abraham Lincoln)


By 2013, more people than ever before were trying to create the future of
evidence-based policing. The Society of Evidence-Based Policing had over 600
members. The new professional College of Policing had a mandate from the UK
government to develop and share "evidence on what works in policing." The George
Mason University Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy joined with the Scottish
Institute of Police Research to communicate EBP to policy makers in Washington.
Newly elected police and crime commissioners in England and Wales organized an
all-day seminar at Cambridge University to gain an introduction to the evidence
on policing. Over 75 percent of senior leaders at Scotland Yard said they had at
least heard of EBP (Stanko 2013).

   Yet the same study at Scotland Yard found that 20 percent of its leaders said
they would not change a policy if the evidence showed it did not work (Stanko
2013). Many, if not most, operational police officers remained skeptical that
research could help improve policing. Laws in the majority of US states, as of
2013, still required police to make arrests when evidence shows that they would
only increase crime rather than prevent it (Sherman 1992a). Evidence-based
policing in 2013 still had a long way to go. As Kahneman (2011) and others have
documented, our intuitive preference for "fast thinking" with an emotional
system I will always cause resistance to conclusions based on more comprehensive
"slow thinking" by our system II reasoning. Which system will win depends on a
larger cultural struggle for the "branding" of policing as a complex profession.

   For those who take Lincoln's advice seriously, it may be useful to  [*439]
suggest 10 ways to create a stronger future for using evidence in policing. The
suggestions are speculations, informed by a deep engagement in the context: the
kind of experience that is essential for making the best use of evidence. The
suggestions aim at institutional decisions as the outcomes. But they are also
aimed at the individuals whose actions can make institutions change their
policies.

   The key institutions are the College of Policing in the United Kingdom, the
state Police Officer Standards and Training Boards in the United States, the
Australian Institute for Police Management, and the Australia New Zealand
Policing Advisory Agency. These are all professionally driven institutions with
governmental funding capable of making substantial changes in the incentives and
organizational culture for better use of research evidence. Until recently they
were largely unconnected to the academic community. But the invention of a new
professional body in the cradle of Anglo-Celtic policing is committed to forging
that connection, with a working agenda for police-university relationships. It
is not impossible that professional bodies in other countries may follow suit.
Unless otherwise indicated, each suggestion below is aimed at the institutions
named above.

   1. A graduate-level education in evidence-based policing should be required
for all chief police executives. Starting at the top is a path of least
resistance from police labor organizations and an ideal first step toward a
"total evidence" strategy of the kind Scotland Yard has adopted. Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, who approved that plan, not only has a
master of business administration and a law degree but also completed the
graduate-level Cambridge Police Executive Programme that teaches evidence in
policing.

   2. A graduate-level knowledge of evidence-based policing should be required
for all police managers at ranks equivalent to chief inspectors in UK policing
and captains in the New York or Los Angeles police. An early second step toward
a culture of evidence in policing would be to focus ambitious officers on the
first major step to police command. Knowing that research evidence is constantly
growing could foster a habit of keeping up, a habit that may continue even after
completing a degree or taking an exam, or doing whatever is established as the
requirement for promotion to that level. Most important may be the substantial
impact this requirement would have on the demand for graduate education.

   3. Promotion to first-line supervision (e.g., sergeant) should be based in
equal parts on knowledge of the law and of the evidence on what works in  [*440]
policing. Perhaps some time after the first two suggestions are adopted, a
cultural familiarity with EBP will ease a transition to changing the content of
promotional examinations. Once knowledge of evidence becomes essential for any
promotion at all in policing, it will greatly broaden the incentive to study
evidence and use it in police operational decisions. Research could even be
cited in arrest reports and court testimony, thereby promoting a stronger public
image of the complex knowledge police must master.

   4. Completion of probation at the end of police recruit training should be
based on an examination that includes equal parts on knowledge of the law and of
the evidence on what works in policing. Once EBP becomes an expected part of
promotional examinations, it will be less difficult to add it to the final
requirement for permanent police officer status (if that concept itself
survives). It will also enhance the use of evidence in police operations since
officers at all rank levels would then be tested on their knowledge. It would
also mean that research evidence would have to be taught in police recruit
schools.

   5. Police professionals at all ranks should be able to achieve international
certification of advanced knowledge by an exam-based Fellowship of the College
of Policing (to be designated an FCP). The practice of advanced testing of
highly skilled practitioners is well established in medicine and other
professions; US doctors have an equivalent process of becoming board certified.
Since the sixteenth century, British professional colleges have been
administering such examinations and certifying knowledge for people from all
over the world. Online educational preparation will make such examinations even
easier to pass, providing free access to knowledge worldwide.

   6. Universities should create faculties of policing that would eventually
operate like medical schools. The growth of demand for police evidence requires
far greater commitment by universities to this kind of public service. The rise
of "pracademics" makes it even more important since the technical support they
need to do experiments at a high standard will grow rapidly.

   7. Academic positions in faculties of policing should include "clinical"
lectureships and professorships modeled on those in medical schools, in which
academics split their time equally between working on police operational matters
and teaching-research activity in the university. By investing in partial
funding of clinical professorships, police agencies or the institutions  [*441]
named above could speed up the process of creating more police faculties.

   8. Promotion to senior police posts, as with senior medical positions, should
require demonstrated achievements in research and teaching within the profession
. This suggestion builds on the recommendations of the UK Home Secretary (May
2012). It could be achieved with evidence of publications in peer-reviewed
journals or teaching in university faculties or police training institutions.

   9. The College of Policing (UK) should create a global example of a process
for approving and recommending evidence-based police practices, engaging police
leaders at all ranks with researchers, victims, and others affected by police
policies in deciding what works, when, and for whom. The transparency of
evidence is a hallmark of science, just as openness to public demands is a
hallmark of policing. The model of the process used by the United Kingdom's
National Institute for Health and Clinical Evidence is one that can be widely
adopted (Sherman 2009).

   10. Every nation should develop its own inventory of evidence-based
practices, based on its own domestic police research, international research,
approved practices of the College of Policing, and a list of similar
institutions in other nations. Once a process is adopted to review evidence for
policy decisions, the dearth of such evidence in most countries will become
clear. There is no point in American police research providing the only evidence
for policing in New Zealand, India, or Hong Kong. Each and every country may
have its own social and cultural context that affects the transportability of
evidence of what works. The only way to be certain of how police practices work
in each country is to test those practices in that country.

   Since the twenty-first century began, the pace at which police use evidence
has grown geometrically. That pace could still slow, reverse, or be crippled by
a hijacking of the meaning of "evidence" in police practice. But if even half
the suggestions offered here are adopted, evidence-based policing will continue
to grow. That trend may ultimately provide many tangible benefits to police
officers, making their work more legitimate and meaningful. A majority of
neither police nor the public may ever accept or even understand the benefits of
evidence, but popularity is not the right test for the success of EBP. The sole
test is whether it benefits the public. All the evidence suggests that it will.

    [*442]  APPENDIX

The resources for locating external tests of police services are growing
rapidly. In the past decade, the Campbell Collaboration (hosted by the Norwegian
government) has completed over 20 systematic reviews of multiple tests of
practices relevant to crime and policing. A "systematic review" in this context
is a comprehensive inventory of all possible tests of a specific practice, which
then examines the pattern of results to conclude whether the program is
effective where it has already been tested. The results in other countries do
not necessarily predict results in all countries. But the information in these
reviews is highly detailed, reporting exactly where the tests were done and how.
Reviews are in PDF files that can be downloaded for free from
http://www.campbellcollaboration.org. As of late 2012, the reviews included such
police services or issues as problem-oriented policing, hot spots policing,
focused deterrence, second responders to domestic violence cases, gun crime
prevention patrols, effects of DNA testing on detection rates,
community-oriented policing, legitimacy in policing, "broken windows" policing,
and crime displacement from place-targeted crime prevention programs.

   A second resource is less rigorous and comprehensive within subjects but has
broader coverage of topics and tested police services: the US Department of
Justice website at http://www.crimesolutions.gov. This site provides an
accessible, test-by-test summary of what was tested and how.

   A bolder model of retrieving police field tests is the EBP Matrix posted at
George Mason University in Virginia, with over 100 tests that can be retrieved
by a point-and-click scan of the study summaries represented as dots on the
matrix (Lum, Koper, and Telep 2010). This matrix can be found at
http://gemini.gmu.edu/cebcp/matrix.html. It is accessible on three dimensions:
scope of target (individuals to nation), specificity of police service (general
to specific), and proactivity of police service (from citizen-initiated to
police-initiated).

   REFERENCES

Angel, Caroline M. 2005. "Crime Victims Meet Their Offenders: Testing the Impact
of Restorative Justice Conferences on Victims' Post-traumatic Stress Symptoms."
PhD dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, Department of Criminology and
School of Nursing.

-> Ariel, B., J. Vila, and L. Sherman. 2012. "Random Assignment without Tears:
How to Stop Worrying and Love the Cambridge Randomizer." Journal of Experimental
Criminology 8(2):1-16. DOI: 10.1007/s11292-012-9141-4.

Banton, Michael. 1964. The Policeman in the Community. London: Tavistock.

-> Bennett, Trevor, Katy Holloway, and David P. Farrington. 2006. "Does
Neighborhood Watch Reduce Crime? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." Journal
of Experimental Criminology 2:437-58.

 [*443]  -> Berk, Richard A., Alec Campbell, Ruth Klap, and Bruce Western. 1992.
"The Deterrent Effect of Arrest in Incidents of Domestic Violence: A Bayesian
Analysis of Four Field Experiments." American Sociological Review 57:698-708.

Berk, Richard A., LawrenceW. Sherman, G. Barnes, E. Kurtz, and L. Ahlman. 2009.
"Forecasting Murder within a Population of Probationers and Parolees: A High
Stakes Application of Statistical Learning." Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society: Series A, Statistics in Society 172:191-211.

Berkow, Michael. 2011. Lecture to the National Police Academy, Hyderabad, India,
June 10.

Blumstein, Alfred, Jacqueline Cohen, Jeffrey A. Roth, and Daniel Nagin. 1986.
Criminal Careers and "Career Criminals." Washington, DC: National Academies
Press.

Bottoms, Anthony, and Justice Tankebe. 2012. "Beyond Procedural Justice: A
Dialogic Approach to Legitimacy in Criminal Justice." Journal of Criminal Law
and Criminology 102:119-253.

-> Bowers, Kate, Shane Johnson, and Ken Pease. 2004. "Prospective Hot-Spotting:
The Future of Crime Mapping?" British Journal of Criminology 44(5): 641-58.

-> Braga, Anthony A., Andrew V. Papachristos, and David M. Hureau. 2012. "The
Effects of Hot Spots Policing on Crime: An Updated Systematic Review and
Meta-Analysis." Campbell Systematic Reviews 2012:8. DOI: 10.4073/csr .2012.8.

-> Braga, Anthony A., and David L. Weisburd. 2010. Policing Problem Places. New
York: Oxford University Press.

-> ------. 2012. "The Effects of Focused Deterrence Strategies on Crime: A
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Empirical Evidence." Journal of
Research in Crime and Delinquency 49(3):323-58.

Bratton, William J. 1998. Turnaround: How America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime
Epidemic. New York: Random House.

-> Brown, Don W. 1978. "Arrest Rates and Crime Rates: When Does a Tipping Effect
Occur?" Social Forces 57:671-82.

Buerger, Michael E. 1993. "Convincing the Recalcitrant: An Examination of the
Minneapolis RECAP Experiment." PhD dissertation, Rutgers University, School of
Criminal Justice.

-> Chamlin, Mitchell B. 1991. "A Longitudinal Analysis of the Arrest-Crime
Relationship: A Further Examination of the Tipping Effect." Justice Quarterly
8:187-99.

Christopher, Warren, ed. 1991. Report of the Independent Commission on the Los
Angeles Police Department. Los Angeles: Diane Publishing.

-> Cohn, Ellen G. 1993. "The Prediction of Police Calls for Service: The
Influence of Weather and Temporal Variables on Rape and Domestic Violence."
Journal of Environmental Psychology 13:71-83.

Collins, Randall. 2004. Interaction Ritual Chains. Princeton, NJ: Princeton
University Press.

Croft, Elizabeth B. 1985. "Police Use of Force: An Empirical Analysis." PhD
[*444]  dissertation, State University of New York at Albany, School of Criminal
Justice.

-> Davis, Robert C., David Weisburd, and Bruce Taylor. 2008. "Effects of Second
Responder Programs on Repeat Incidents of Family Abuse." Campbell Systematic
Reviews 2008:15. DOI: 10.4073/csr.2008.15.

-> Dunford, Franklyn W. 1990. "System-Initiated Warrants for Suspects of
Misdemeanor Domestic Assault: A Pilot Study." Justice Quarterly 7(4):631-53.

Eck, John E. 1979. Managing Case Assignments: The Burglary Investigation
Decision Model Replication. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

Englefield, Ashley E. 2013. M.St. thesis, Cambridge University, Institute of
Criminology.

Eyle, Alexandra. 2001-2. "Mayor Rocky Anderson Talks about What It's Like to . .
. Drop the D.A.R.E. Program." Reconsider Quarterly 1(4):12-13.

Farrar, Tony. 2013. M.St. Thesis, Cambridge University, Institute of
Criminology.

Farrell, Graham. 1995. "Preventing Repeat Victimization." In Building a Safer
Society: Strategic Approaches to Crime Prevention, edited by Michael Tonry and
David P. Farrington. Vol. 19 of Crime and Justice: A Review of Research, edited
by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

-> Ferraro, Kathleen J. 1989. "Policing Woman Battering." Social Problems
36:61-74.

Foa, Edna. 1997. "Trauma and Women: Course, Predictors, and Treatment." Journal
of Clinical Psychiatry 58:25-28.

-> Fyfe, James J. 1980. "Administrative Interventions on Police Shooting
Discretion: An Empirical Examination." Journal of Criminal Justice 7(4):309-23.

-> ------. 1982. "Blind Justice: Police Shootings in Memphis." Journal of
Criminal Law and Criminology 73(2):707-22.

Giluk, Tamara L., and Sara Rynes-Weller. 2012. "Research Findings Practitioners
Resist: Lessons for Management Academics from Evidence-Based Medicine." In The
Oxford Handbook of Evidence-Based Management, edited by Denise M. Rousseau. New
York: Oxford University Press.

Glaser, Barney, and Anselm Straus. 1967. The Discovery of Grounded Theory. New
York: Aldine.

Goldstein, Herman. 1979. "Improving Policing: A Problem-Oriented Approach."
Crime and Delinquency 25:236-58.

------. 1990. Problem-Oriented Policing. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Goode, Erica. 2011. "Sending the Police before There's a Crime." New York Times,
August 15. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html?_rp0.

Greenberg, Bernard, and Karen Lang. 1973. Enhancement of the Investigative
Function. Vol. 4, Burglary Investigative Checklist and Handbook. Stanford, CA:
Stanford Research Institute.

Greenwood, Peter, and Joan Petersilia. 1975. The Criminal Investigation Process.
Santa Monica, CA: RAND.

Hafner, Katie. 2012. "For Second Opinion, Consult a Computer?" New York  [*445]
Times, December 3.
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/04/health/quest-toeliminate-diagnostic-lapses.htm
l?pagewantedpall&_rp0.

Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary. 2010. Valuing the Police: Policing
in an Age of Austerity. London: Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary.

Howarth, David M. P. 2010. Address to the Third Cambridge-NPIA International
Conference on Evidence-Based Policing. Cambridge University, July 4.

Hume, David. 1748. An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
http://www.gutenberg.org/.

Issenberg, Sasha. 2012. The Victory Lab: The Secret Science of Winning Campaigns
. New York: Crown.

-> Jackson, Jonathan, and Ben Bradford. 2009. "Crime, Policing and Social Order:
On the Expressive Nature of Public Confidence in Policing." British Journal of
Sociology 60(3):493-521.

-> Johnson, Shane D., and Kate J. Bowers. 2004. "The Burglary as Clue to the
Future: The Beginnings of Prospective Hot-Spotting." European Journal of
Criminology 1:237-55.

Johnson, Steven Berlin. 2001. Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains,
Cities, and Software. New York: Scribners.

------. 2010. Where Good Ideas Come From: The Natural History of Innovation. New
York: Riverside.

Judge, Igor. 2010. "Summary Justice In and Out of Court: The Police Foundation's
John Harris Memorial Lecture." Lecture presented at Draper's Hall, London, July
7.
http://www.judiciary.gov.uk/Resources/JCO/Documents/Speeches/lcj-speech-john-har
ris-lecture.pdf.

Kahneman, D. 2011. Thinking, Fast and Slow. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

Kansas City Police Department. 1977. Response Time Analysis: Executive Summary.
Kansas City: Kansas City Police Department.

Kelling, George L., Antony Pate, Duane Dieckman, and Charles E. Brown. 1974. The
Kansas City Preventive Patrol Experiment: A Summary Report. Washington, DC:
Police Foundation.

Kelling, George L., Antony Pate, Amy Ferrara, Mary Utne, and Charles E. Brown.
1981. The Newark Foot Patrol Experiment. Washington, DC: Police Foundation.

Kennedy, David M. 2008. Deterrence and Crime Prevention. London: Routledge.

------. 2011. Don't Shoot: One Man, a Street Fellowship, and the End of Violence
in Inner-City America. New York: Bloomsbury.

-> Koper, Christopher S. 1995. "Just Enough Police Presence: Reducing Crime and
Disorderly Behavior by Optimizing Patrol Time in Crime Hot Spots." Justice
Quarterly 12:649-72.

-> Koper, Christopher S., and Evan Mayo-Wilson. 2006. "Police Crackdowns on
Illegal Gun Carrying: A Systematic Review of Their Impact on Gun Crime." Journal
of Experimental Criminology 2:227-61.

Kubrin, Charis E., Steven F. Messner, Glenn Deane, Kelly McGeever, and  [*446]
Thomas D. Stucky. 2010. "Proactive Policing and Robbery Rates across US Cities."
Criminology 48:57-97.

-> LaFave, Wayne. 1965. Arrest: The Decision to Take a Suspect into Custody.
Boston: Little, Brown.

-> Larson, Richard C. 1976. "What Happened to Patrol Operations in Kansas City?
A Review of the Kansas City Preventive Patrol Experiment." Journal of Criminal
Justice 3:267-97.

Lewis, Michael. 2003. Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game. New York:
Norton.

-> Lum, Cynthia, Christopher S. Koper, and Cody D. Telep. 2010. "The
Evidence-Based Policing Matrix." Journal of Experimental Criminology 7:3-26.

Manning, Peter K. 1992. "Information Technologies and the Police." In Modern
Policing, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and
Justice: A Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.

Maple, Jack. 1999. The Crime Fighter: How You Can Make Our Community Crime-Free.
New York: Doubleday.

-> Martin, Susan E., and Lawrence W. Sherman. 1986. "Selective Apprehension: A
Police Strategy for Repeat Offenders." Criminology 24:155-73.

May, T. 2012. Speech by the Home Secretary to the Police Superintendents'
Association Conference, September 11.
http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk/media-centre/speeches/supers2012?versionp2.

-> Mazerolle, Lorraine, Emma Antrobus, Sarah Bennett, and Tom R. Tyler. 2013.
"Shaping Citizen Perceptions of Police Legitimacy: A Randomized Field Trial of
Procedural Justice." Criminology 51:33-63.

McEwen, Thomas, Edward F. Connors, and Marcia Cohen. 1986. Evaluation of the
Differential Police Response Field Test. Washington, DC: National Institute of
Justice.

Meehl, Paul E. 1954. Clinical vs. Statistical Prediction: A Theoretical Analysis
and a Review of the Evidence. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.

Millenson, M. 1997. Demanding Medical Excellence: Doctors and Accountability in
the Information Age. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Mitchell, Renee. 2012. Presentation to the Cambridge Police Executive Programme,
April 17.

Monkkonen, Eric H. 1992. "History of Urban Police." In Modern Policing, edited
by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A Review of
Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Murray, Alexander. 2009. M.St. thesis, University of Cambridge, Institute of
Criminology.

-> Nevin, Rick. 2000. "How Lead Exposure Relates to Temporal Changes in IQ,
Violent Crime, and Unwed Pregnancy." Environmental Research 83:1-22.

Neyroud, Peter, and Molly Slothower. 2013. Operation Turning Point: Progress
Report. Cambridge: Jerry Lee Centre of Experimental Criminology, Institute of
Criminology, University of Cambridge.

 [*447]  O'Connor, Denis. 2012. Lecture to the Cambridge Police Executive
Programme, Institute of Criminology, University of Cambridge, September.

Parkinson, John. 2013. M.St. thesis, University of Cambridge, Institute of
Criminology.

-> Pate, Antony M., and Edwin E. Hamilton. 1992. "Formal and Informal Deterrents
to Domestic Violence: The Dade County Spouse Assault Experiment." American
Sociological Review 57:691-97.

Pease, Ken. 1998. "Repeat Victimisation: Taking Stock." Crime Detection and
Prevention Series Paper 90. London: Home Office.

-> Perry, Cheryl L., Kelli A. Komro, Sara Veblen-Mortenson, Linda M. Bosma, Kian
Farbakhsh, Karen A. Munson, Melissa H. Stigler, and Leslie A. Lytle. 2003. "A
Randomized Controlled Trial of the Middle and Junior High School DARE and DARE
Plus Programs." Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine 157:178-84.

-> Petrosino, Anthony, Carolyn Turpin-Petrosino, and Sarah Guckenburg. 2010.
"Formal System Processing of Juveniles: Effects on Delinquency." Campbell
Systematic Reviews 2010:1. DOI: 10.4073/csr.2010.1.

-> Pittet, Didier, and John M. Boyce. 2001. "Hand Hygiene and Patient Care:
Pursuing the Semmelweis Legacy." Lancet Infectious Diseases 1:9-20.

Police Executive Research Forum. 2008. Violent Crime in America: What We Know
about Hot Spots Enforcement. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice. 1967.
Task Force Report: The Police. Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office.

-> Ratcliffe, Jerry H., Travis Taniguchi, Elizabeth R. Groff, and Jennifer D.
Wood. 2011. "The Philadelphia Foot Patrol Experiment: A Randomized Controlled
Trial of Police Patrol Effectiveness in Violent Crime Hotspots." Criminology
49:795-831.

Reaves, Brian. 2010. Local Police Departments, 2007. Washington, DC: Bureau of
Justice Statistics, Office of Justice Programs, US Department of Justice.

Reiss, Albert J., Jr. 1971. The Police and the Public. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press.

------. 1988. "Co-offending and Criminal Careers." In Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, vol. 10, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.

------. 1992. "Police Organization in the Twentieth Century." In Modern Policing
, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.

-> Reiss, Albert J., Jr., and David P. Farrington. 1991. "Advancing Knowledge
about Co-offending: Results from a Prospective Longitudinal Survey of London
Males." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 82:360-95.

-> Robin, Gerald D. 1963. "Justifiable Homicide by Police Officers." Journal of
Criminal Law, Criminology and Police Science 54:225-31.

-> Roman, John, Shannon E. Reid, Aaron J. Chalfin, and Carly R. Knight. 2009.
[*448]  "The DNA Field Experiment: A Randomized Trial of the Cost-Effectiveness
of Using DNA to Solve Property Crimes." Journal of Experimental Criminology
5:345-69.

Rossi, Peter H., Richard E. Berk, and Bettye Eidson. 1974. The Roots of Urban
Discontent. New York: Wiley.

-> Rossi, Peter H., Emily Waite, Christine E. Bose, and Richard E. Berk. 1974.
"The Seriousness of Crimes: Normative Structure and Individual Differences."
American Sociological Review 39:224-37.

-> Sackett, David L., William M. Rosenberg, J. A. Gray, R. Brian Haynes, and W.
Scott Richardson. 1996. "Evidence Based Medicine: What It Is and What It Isn't."
British Medical Journal 312:71-72.

Sagan, Leonard. 1987. The Health of Nations. New York: Basic Books.

-> Sampson, Robert J., and Dawn Jeglum Bartusch. 1998. "Legal Cynicism and
Subcultural Tolerance of Deviance: The Neighborhood Context of Racial
Difference." Law and Society Review 32:777-804.

Saunders, Charles. 1970. Upgrading the American Police: Education and Training
for Better Law Enforcement. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution.

-> Shaw, James W. 1995. "Community Policing against Guns: Public Opinion of the
Kansas City Gun Experiment." Justice Quarterly 12:695-710.

Skogan, Wesley. 1990. Disorder and Decline: Crime and the Spiral of Decay in
American Neighborhoods. New York: Free Press.

Skogan, Wesley, and Kathleen Frdyl, eds. 2004. Fairness and Effectiveness in
Policing: The Evidence. National Research Council, Committee to Review Research
on Police Policy and Practice. Washington, DC: National Academies Press.

Skogan, Wesley, and Susan Hartnett. 1997. Community Policing, Chicago Style. New
York: Oxford University Press.

Sherman, Lawrence W. 1976. The Control of Police Misconduct in Louisville,
Kentucky. Louisville: Office of the Public Safety Commissioner.

------. 1978. Scandal and Reform: Controlling Police Corruption. Berkeley:
University of California Press.

------. 1980. "Execution without Trial: Police Homicide and the Constitution."
Vanderbilt Law Review 33:71-100.

------. 1983. "Reducing Police Gun Use: Critical Events, Administrative Policy,
and Organizational Change." In Control in the Police Organization, edited by
Maurice Punch. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

------. 1984. "Experiments in Police Discretion: Scientific Boon or Dangerous
Knowledge?" Law and Contemporary Problems 47:61-81.

------. 1986. "Policing Communities: What Works?" In Communities and Crime,
edited by Albert J. Reiss Jr. and Michael Tonry. Vol. 8 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.

------. 1987. Repeat Calls to Police in Minneapolis. Crime Control Reports 4.
Washington, DC: Crime Control Institute.

------. 1990. "Police Crackdowns: Initial and Residual Deterrence." In Crime
[*449]  and Justice: A Review of Research, vol. 12, edited by Michael Tonry and
Norval Morris. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

------. 1992a. "Attacking Crime: Police and Crime Control." In Modern Policing,
edited by Michael Tonry and Norval Morris. Vol. 15 of Crime and Justice: A
Review of Research, edited by Michael Tonry. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.

------. 1992b. Policing Domestic Violence: Experiments and Dilemmas. With Janell
D. Schmidt and Dennis P. Rogan. New York: Free Press.

-> ------. 1993. "Defiance, Deterrence, and Irrelevance: A Theory of the
Criminal Sanction." Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency 30:445-73.

------. 1998. Evidence-Based Policing. Ideas in American Policing Series.
Washington, DC: Police Foundation. http://www.policefoundation.org.

------. 2002. "Trust and Confidence in Criminal Justice." National Institute of
Justice Journal 248:23-31.

-> ------. 2007. "The Power Few Hypothesis: Experimental Criminology and the
Reduction of Harm." Journal of Experimental Criminology 3:299-321.

-> ------. 2009. "Evidence and Liberty: The Promise of Experimental
Criminology." Criminology and Criminal Justice 9(1):5-28.

------. 2010. "Less Prison, More Police, Less Crime: How Criminology Can Save
the States from Bankruptcy." Lecture presented to the National Institute of
Justice, April 21.
http://www.nij.gov/multimedia/presenter/presentersherman/data/resources/presente
r-sherman-transcript.htm.

-> ------. 2011a. "Al Capone, the Sword of Damocles, and the Police-Corrections
Budget Ratio." Criminology and Public Policy 10:195-206.

------. 2011b. "Professional Policing and Liberal Democracy." Benjamin Franklin
Medal Lecture delivered to the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
Manufactures, and Commerce, London, November 1.
http://www.thersa.org/events/audio-and-past-events/2011/professional-policingand
-liberal-democracy.

-> Sherman, Lawrence W., and Richard A. Berk. 1984. "The Specific Deterrent
Effects of Arrest for Domestic Assault." American Sociological Review 49(2):
261-71.

Sherman, Lawrence W., Ioana Cosma, and Peter Neyroud. 2012. "Forecasting Serious
Crime among Convicted Offenders in England and Wales: A Random Forests
Approach." Paper presented to the American Society of Criminology, Chicago,
November.

-> Sherman, Lawrence W., Patrick R. Gartin, and Michael E. Buerger. 1989. "Hot
Spots of Predatory Crime: Routine Activities and the Criminology of Place."
Criminology 27:27-55.

Sherman, Lawrence W., Denise Gottfredson, Doris MacKenzie, John E. Eck, Peter
Reuter, and Shawn D. Bushway. 1998. Preventing Crime: What Works, What Doesn't,
What's Promising. Research in Brief. Washington, DC: National Institute of
Justice.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and Heather Harris. 2012. "Life-Course Effects of Arrest
for Domestic Violence: Informal and Formal Control over 24 Years."  [*450]
Paper presented to the American Society of Criminology, Chicago, November.

-> Sherman, Lawrence W., and Robert H. Langworthy. 1979. "Measuring Homicide by
Police Officers." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 70:546-60.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and the National Advisory Commission on Higher Education
for Police Officers. 1978. The Quality of Police Education. San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and Heather Strang. 2012. "Restorative Justice as
Evidence-Based Sentencing." In The Oxford Handbook of Sentencing and Corrections
, edited by Joan Petersilia and Kevin Reitz. New York: Oxford University Press.

Sherman, Lawrence W., Heather Strang, Geoffrey C. Barnes, and Daniel J. Woods.
2006. "Race and Restorative Justice." Paper presented to the American Society of
Criminology, Los Angeles, November.

Sherman, Lawrence W., and David Weisburd. 1995. "General Deterrent Effects of
Police Patrol in Crime Hot Spots: A Randomized, Controlled Trial." Justice
Quarterly 12:635-48.

Silver, Nate. 2012. The Signal and the Noise: Why So Many Predictions Fail--but
Some Don't. New York: Penguin.

Sparrow, M. 2011. Governing Science. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University.
http://www.nij.gov/pubs-sum/232179.htm.

Spelman, William. 1990. Repeat Offender Programs for Law Enforcement.
Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

Spelman, William, and Dale K. Brown. 1981. Calling the Police: Citizen Reporting
of Serious Crime. Washington, DC: Police Executive Research Forum.

Spelman, William, and John E. Eck. 1989. Sitting Ducks, Ravenous Wolves and
Helping Hands: New Approaches to Urban Policing. Austin, TX: Lyndon B. Johnson
School of Public Affairs, University of Texas.

Stanko, Betsy. 2013. Paper presented to the Society of Evidence-Based Policing,
University of Edinburgh, February 12.

Strang, Heather, Lawrence Sherman, Evan Mayo-Wilson, Daniel J. Woods, and Barak
Ariel. 2013. "Restorative Justice Conferencing (RJC) Using Face-to-Face Meetings
of Offenders and Victims: Effects on Offender Recidivism and Victim
Satisfaction." Campbell Systematic Reviews, forthcoming.

-> Tankebe, Justice. 2009. "Public Cooperation with the Police in Ghana: Does
Procedural Fairness Matter?" Criminology 47:1265-93.

Tapscott, Don, and Anthony D. Williams. 2006. Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration
Changes Everything. London: Portfolio.

-> Telep, Cody W., Ren[#x00E9]e J. Mitchell, and David Weisburd. 2012. "How Much
Time Should the Police Spend at Crime Hot Spots? Answers from a Police Agency
Directed Randomized Field Trial in Sacramento, California." Justice Quarterly
2012:1-29.

-> Tennenbaum, Abraham N. 1994. "The Influence of the 'Garner' Decision on
Police Use of Deadly Force." Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 85(1):
241-60.

 [*451]  Thompson, James D. 1967. Organizations in Action. New York:
McGraw-Hill. Thornton, Sara D. 2011. M.St. thesis, University of Cambridge,
Institute of Criminology.

Tittle, Charles R., and Allan R. Rowe. 1974. "Certainty of Arrest and Crime
Rates: A Further Test of the Deterrence Hypothesis." Social Forces 52:455-62.

Trojanowicz, Robert C., and Robert Baldwin. 1982. An Evaluation of the
Neighborhood Foot Patrol Program in Flint, Michigan. East Lansing: Michigan
State University.

Weisburd, David. 2012. "Can Automobile Vehicle Locator Systems Be Used to Manage
Police Presence and Reduce Crime? The Dallas, TX AVL Experiment." Paper
Presented to the Fifth Cambridge University International Conference on
Evidence-Based Policing, July 10. http://sms.cam.ac.uk/media/1277185.

Weisburd, David, Elizabeth R. Groff, and Sue-Ming Yang. 2012. The Criminology of
Place: Street Segments and Our Understanding of the Crime Problem. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.

-> Weisburd, David, and Cynthia Lum. 2005. "The Diffusion of Computerized Crime
Mapping in Policing: Linking Research and Practice." Police Practice and
Research 6:419-34.

Weisburd, David, Stephen D. Mastrofski, Rosann Greenspan, and James J. Willis.
2004. The Growth of Comp-Stat in American Policing. Police Foundation reports.
Washington, DC: Police Foundation.

Weisburd, David, and Peter Neyroud. 2011. Police Science: Toward a New Paradigm.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University.
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/228922.pdf.

-> Weisburd, David, Cody W. Telep, Joshua C. Hinkle, and John E. Eck. 2010. "Is
Problem-Oriented Policing Effective in Reducing Crime and Disorder?" Criminology
and Public Policy 9:139-72.

-> Weisburd, David, Laura A. Wyckoff, Justin Ready, John E. Eck, Joshua C.
Hinkle, and Frank Gajewski. 2006. "Does Crime Just Move around the Corner? A
Controlled Study of Spatial Displacement and Diffusion of Crime Control
Benefits." Criminology 44:549-92.

White, Susan O., and Samuel Krislov. 1977. Understanding Crime: An Evaluation of
the National Institute of Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice. Washington, DC:
National Academy of Sciences.

-> Willis, J. J., Stephen D. Mastrofski, and DavidWeisburd. 2007. "Making Sense
of COMPSTAT: A Theory-Based Analysis of Organizational Change in Three Police
Departments." Law and Society Review 41:147-88.

Wilson, James Q. 1968. Varieties of Police Behavior. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.

Wilson, Orlando W. 1950. Police Administration. New York: McGraw-Hill. Zimring,
Franklin E. 1976. "Field Experiments in General Deterrence: Preferring the
Tortoise to the Hare." Evaluation 3:132-35.

------. 2012. The City That Became Safe: New York's Lessons for Urban Crime and
Its Control. New York: Oxford University Press.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Copyright LawCriminal OffensesCriminal InfringementJurisdiction &
VenueGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinanceMilitary & Veterans LawMilitary
JusticeEvidenceGeneral Overview


                               2 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Hot Pursuit of Numbers to Ward Off Crime

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; SpecialSections; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1070 words


At the Seattle Police Department, the morning roll call begins with Google Maps
and computer algorithms.

A supervising sergeant pulls up a map of a precinct that is dotted with red
boxes marking the beats that the officers should focus on. The map is the
product of software that crunches crime data and tries to predict where crimes
are most likely to occur over the next few hours. Patrol this parking lot today
after 8 p.m., the algorithm might suggest, or keep an eye on that stretch of
road for car break-ins.

''It gives the officers more direction,'' Sgt. Bryan Clenna, of the city's West
Precinct, said, ''instead of driving around like drone bees.''

Predictive policing programs like this one, used for now only for property
crimes, are a harbinger of how, for better or worse, police officers across the
country are relying on the data analytics business. Seattle is at the center of
this experiment.

The city's license-plate readers record the movement of vehicles, information
that is then stored in a vast database to be tapped later in criminal
investigations. Its red-light cameras record traffic violations and issue
tickets, though unlike many other municipalities, Seattle requires a police
officer to vet each citation. The police department uses Twitter, that rushing
stream of data, as its crime blotter, letting residents report possible crimes
in their neighborhoods.

And, starting in July, the Seattle police will use a similar software program to
predict where gun violence is likely to occur.

The department even procured an unmanned drone equipped with a video camera to
take aerial shots, but the plan was halted after residents raised concerns about
privacy.

''Where technology has caught up is to allow police to ask questions about
what's happening in their jurisdictions and to be able to understand temporal
patterns, spatial patterns,'' said Joel M. Caplan, assistant professor of
criminal justice at Rutgers University in New Jersey, who has developed a crime
forecasting program with his colleagues and is testing it at a half-dozen police
agencies.

Critics say that surveillance technologies carry risks to civil liberties and
that predictive policing, in particular, can additionally perpetuate a
self-fulfilling cycle of bias. That is to say, an area with historically high
rates of crime gets greater police attention, which results in more arrests,
which in turn the algorithm uses to deem that neighborhood an area where crime
is more likely to occur.

''It comes with inherent biases and prejudices that can be worse than the help
it offers,'' said Jason M. Schultz, who studies the privacy implications of new
technologies at the School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley.
''It kind of reinforces its own data by redirecting resources to those areas.''

Because predictive policing is still in its infancy, there is little independent
evidence to suggest whether data mining in law enforcement is really effective.

But for companies that make the analytics tools, it is already a large and
fast-growing market.

For instance, I.B.M., which has spent billions of dollars in the last year
acquiring analytics start-ups, offers a software package of its own for
predictive policing. Its social media analytics tool can be used by police
agencies to vet Facebook and Twitter chatter. And its Coplink software allows
one investigating police agency to mine another's crime data to track down a
wanted person: police officials in Mesa, Ariz., said they used this technology
to find a man suspected of murder who was picked up for jaywalking hundreds of
miles away.

Microsoft teamed up with the New York Police Department to develop one of the
most ambitious crime analytics tools in the world. Known as the Domain Awareness
System, it can analyze video from the more than 3,000 police surveillance
cameras across the city and comb through a variety of other databases, from
license-plate readers to sensors that can pick up heightened radiation levels to
arrest records. In announcing the program last August, the police said it could,
for instance, find a car associated with a possible crime or lawbreaker and
analyze where that car had been seen over the last several weeks.

Law enforcement agencies, especially gang units, mine social networks like
Facebook and Twitter to gather intelligence on criminal networks. The Department
of Homeland Security uses an analytics tool that combs through Twitter for key
words that might signal trouble. The list includes ''pipe bomb,'' ''plume'' and
''listeria.''

Seattle's predictive policing program grew out of an earlier experiment in data
analytics. It began with a software program that culled 911 calls from the
previous week, identified crime ''hot spots'' and assigned officers to patrol
each one for at least 15 minutes every hour. Not all 911 calls turn out to be
about criminal activity, though, and the department cut back on the practice of
these so-called directed patrols. Earlier this year, Seattle bought a new
software package, known as PredPol, short for predictive policing, and developed
by academics at the University of California, Los Angeles. It initially deployed
the software in two precincts, and in May announced its expansion citywide.

Acting Lt. Bryan Grenon said it was too early to know whether it was working. In
any case, property crimes have plummeted in Seattle in the last year, by as much
as 19 percent.

PredPol, according to P. Jeffrey Brantingham, a U.C.L.A. anthropologist who
helped develop it, does not rely just on the previous day or previous week's
incidents. It looks at both short-term and long-term patterns in property
crimes, he said, and uses a proprietary algorithm to weigh their relative
importance and forecast risk in the next few hours. It has been used by 11 other
police agencies, including those in Los Angeles and Santa Cruz. It has not been
independently tested.

Sometimes, his algorithm has a pretty good idea of where someone might cause
trouble, but not necessarily what kind.

In late May, Sergeant Clenna recalled, the PredPol map divined danger in a tiny
patch of downtown that is dotted with liquor stores and loiterers. Sure enough,
there was a robbery right there, though not one that a computer program could
have predicted: a thief walked into a Chinese restaurant and made off with a
live crab.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/in-hot-pursuit-of-numbers-to-ward-off-c
rime/

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PREDICTIVE POLICING: Michele Vallor,  a Seattle police officer,
patrols a  block identified by PredPol, a software  package, as being at high
risk  for crime. At left, during roll call Seattle  officers are given printouts
of  PredPol data. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL HANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

FOR 10TH YEAR;
Violent crime in L.A. falls

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 723 words


Violent crime in the city of Los Angeles fell for the 10th year in a row to its
lowest level in decades, even as property crime reversed its downward trend and
posted a slight uptick, the mayor and police chief announced Monday.

"Our data shows that, in 2012, Los Angeles had the fewest violent crimes per
capita than any big city in the United States of America," Mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa said during a news conference.

"Last year, there was a citywide reduction in robbery, aggravated assault,
burglary and auto theft, and - for the third year in a row - we saw fewer than
300 homicides," he added.

Police Chief Charlie Beck said the 18,293 violent crimes recorded in 2012
represented an 8.2 percent slide from the year before. Statistics showed
significant decreases in robbery and aggravated assault offset increases in rape
and homicide.

"This is the lowest violent crime level in the city of Los Angeles since William
Parker was chief (of the LAPD in the '50s and '60s)," Beck said.

He added a 10.5 percent drop in gang-related crimes overall helped drive the
numbers down, noting the 152 gang-related homicides last year were the fewest in
decades.

The city, however, saw property crimes increase for the first time in years,
though by only 0.2 percent for a total of 85,866 thefts, burglaries and
carjackings.

Beck blamed the uptick on a 30 percent increase in cellphone thefts, in
particular, and he urged the public to take precautions to prevent their various
electronic gadgets from being stolen.

"Lock it, hide it and you'll keep it," he advised. "Put the responsibility on
yourself for keeping your property safe. If you do that, then I can continue to
reduce crime in the city of Los Angeles."

Beck also attributed some of the increase in property crime to realignment,
which took effect in October 2011. That law, backed by Gov. Jerry Brown,
included a provision that placed certain ex-cons on probation instead of parole.

"When realignment was originally announced, I predicted property crime would
increase in Los Angeles by a couple of percentage points because of it, and I
believe that has occurred," he said, calling for the law to be "tweaked" so that
police can monitor ex-cons more closely.

Taken together, the overall drop in violent crimes and property crimes in 2012
was 1.4 percent, the smallest percentage decline in the last five years.

In 2008, during the recession, overall crimes receded 7.6 percent. In 2011, the
drop was 4.6 percent.

Beck, however, bristled at the observation that last year's 1.4 percent drop in
the overall crime rate did not seem up to par.

"You're minimizing something that is a remarkable achievement," he said.

"Why don't you ask the other cities that had an increase? Why don't you ask New
York, Chicago, the county of Los Angeles, if they would like to have 1.4
percent."

Villaraigosa, whose term ends in June, said he hopes the incoming mayor -
whoever it may be - will make the continued hiring of police officers a
priority.

He said the LAPD recently hit a milestone when its ranks swelled to 10,000, but
added Los Angeles remains "the most underpoliced big city" in the country. He
refused to back a proposed ballot measure to boost the sales tax if the LAPD is
not allowed to continue growing.

"There is no way I would support a sales tax if we don't continue police
hiring," Villaraigosa said.

"These numbers (the declining crime rates) don't lie," he added. "These numbers
are a reflection of growing our police department, of our commitment to
community policing."

Beck vowed the LAPD would continue to lower crime rates by remaining data-driven
in its crime suppression strategies, and by working closely with the Mayor's
Gang Reduction and Youth Development Office.

He also vowed to expand "predictive policing, which uses logarithms to predict
where crime will occur and to control the response of officers," as well as more
officers long term to the toughest parts of the city so they can form deep
partnerships with the communities there.

He also intends to continue Operation Ceasefire, which calls for talking to gang
members so they know the consequences of continued violent crimes, and Operation
Laser, which closely tracks people who have committed violent crimes in the past
and are likely to do so again.

christina.villacorte@dailynews.com

213-974-8985

twitter.com/LADNvillacorte

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 15, 2013 Thursday

Santa Cruz predictive policing adds tool for cops, neighbors

BYLINE: Stephen Baxter, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 740 words


Aug. 15--SANTA CRUZ -- On a day meant to introduce residents to predictive
policing hot spots that officers check in their down time, Santa Cruz police
Wednesday arrested a man on Beach Street during a predictive check.

The day was billed as International Predictive Policing Day of Action, with
police in Kent, England, and Los Angeles sharing locations with residents to try
to increase their presence on the street and hopefully prevent crime.

Near Beach and Main streets about 11:45 a.m., police apprehended a 47-year-old
man on suspicion of being drunk in public and carrying a concealed knife, both
misdemeanors.

Police said it was a small illustration of the idea at work.

"Our goal today is not to arrest a lot of people, it's to prevent the crime from
happening," said Santa Cruz Police Chief Kevin Vogel. "I'm exceptionally proud
that we were the first ones to do this."

Launched in 2011, the program essentially uses historical data of the time and
location of burglaries and thefts and uses an algorithm to predict future crime.
When officers are not responding to other calls, they are asked to patrol in
those areas.

Wednesday, some residents gathered at places such as lower Ocean Street and
Lincoln and Chestnut streets, which were predicted to have a higher likelihood
of burglary, vehicle burglary or vehicle theft.

"It's almost like Neighborhood Watch in the next century," said Santa Cruz
Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark.

Clark said police have not tracked the number of arrests that have come from the
"extra checks," as police often call them. Yet he said that once or twice a
week, an officer on a predictive policing check has either talked to a
suspicious person, received information on another case or made an arrest.

The arrests have not been associated with major crimes such as murders or
robberies, but they have helped to solve burglaries and put police in places
they might not think to patrol.

It's been a tool that officers have added to their natural intuition, Clark
said.

PREDICTIVE EXAMPLES

One night in 2012, for instance, officers were on an extra check near Windham
Street when they talked to a man who had more than four GPS units on him.

"No one's that lost," Clark said. Through more investigation, "We wrapped up
several auto burglary cases off that."

Last year near North Branciforte and Goss avenues, police stopped a bicyclist
and recognized him as a drug user. He wore a NCAA basketball ring and didn't
look like a basketball player; police later linked it to a burglary and returned
it.

Clark's favorite example is that of a Santa Cruz beat cop who was eating his
lunch in his patrol car in a downtown parking lot because it was on that shift's
predictive list. He spotted two women trying to break into cars and arrested
them.

For neighborhood leaders like Deborah Elston, the list of 15 predictive policing
addresses distributed to neighbors on Wednesday were not a big surprise.

They included five areas in the Lower Ocean Street neighborhood, as well as the
100 block of Beach Street and near Seabright Avenue and Murray Street.

Elston was pleased that the list was shared with neighbors, and she encouraged
residents to be aware of suspicious people and problems like graffiti -- which
can lead to more crime.

"When you make the 911 call to report suspicious activity, you never know what
you're preventing," Elston said.

Although many factors go in to crime trends, overall reported crime dropped more
than 25 percent in June and July compared with June and July 2012, according to
police.

For instance, there were 45 reported burglaries in the city in July 2013, down
from 67 in July 2012.

Elston said she understood it might be difficult to quantify the success of
predictive policing because crime could have been prevented by the presence of
an officer or neighbor. The person trying door handles on cars to steal things
might have gone elsewhere, for instance.

Yet she said that twice in the first few months of the predictive program, she
had her cellphone out to call 911 for a suspicious person when an officer on an
extra check arrived.

One time was on the San Lorenzo River levee when an officer rolled up to her.

She told him, "I was just about to call you."

Follow Sentinel reporter Stephen Baxter at Twitter.com/sbaxter_sc

___ (c)2013 Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130815-QC-Santa-Cruz-predictive-policing
-adds-tool-for-cops-neighbors-20130815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2013 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               5 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                 First Edition

The numbers men of LA

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1045 words


The city's police have found a way to spot trouble before it starts, writes Nick
O'Malley.

The morning watch at the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill division
begins at 6am, when the shift's officers gather for roll-call and a briefing.

The dozen or so officers are briefed on incidents from the previous shift, and
on any offenders or vehicles they might be looking for. Then each team is a
handed a simple A4 map, warm from an office printer.

They don't look like much, but the maps are the result of more than half a
decade's work by anthropologists and mathematicians from two leading American
universities.

Marked on the maps are a series of red boxes outlining 150-metre-long squares
superimposed over the streets they will patrol. The boxes indicate, with spooky
accuracy, where the division's most common crimes are most likely to be
committed during the 12-hour shift.

The Predictive Policing project, or Pred Pol as it has become known, has been so
successful in cutting crime rates since it was tested in Foothill in 2011 that
it has spread to seven other LA police divisions, with more to come. Twenty or
so police departments across the US have signed on, as have departments in
Britain. It is understood at least one Australian force is in talks to sign up.

A driving force behind Pred Pol is Dr Jeff Brantingham, an anthropologist at the
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

The standard measure of accuracy for crime prediction is, he says,
multiplications of random. Existing techniques are usually effective about three
times random. Pred Pol is twice as effective, accurate to six times random. And
it is likely to improve.

Brantingham says the key insight that informed early work on Pred Pol was to
tackle crime prediction via mathematics, rather than the social sciences.

Usually, crime analysts look at crime patterns with social and geographical
factors. They would look at a particular area's crime history, demographic
make-up, the location of transport and late-opening bars.

Pred Pol strips all that away. It simply feeds three different factors - crime
type, time and location - through the dizzyingly sophisticated equations and
algorithms the team has created. "The problem with considering how many open
bars there are is that it misses the point," Brantingham says. "The key
information is the number of assaults or robberies, and you already know that."

The team began in 2005 by considering crime through a spatial rather than social
lens. If you consider a potential criminal and a potential target to be atoms
floating in a body of fluid, what factors would cause them to meet - and how and
when? And what other factors might interrupt that meeting?

Working with Brantingham, UCLA's applied mathematics department began
investigating models that described events such as chemical reactions and the
way substances diffuse in fluid. Even fish migration predictions were discussed.

Soon the Los Angeles police had become involved. Brantingham had asked for
access to crime data and had feared he might be met with suspicion. Instead, the
department threw itself into the project.

At the time, the police suffered from an awkward problem: crime was falling
across the city and had been for a few years. The city that had registered 1092
murders in a single year two decades ago lost just 298 of its citizens to
violence in 2012, when it became the safest big city in the US.

This was good news for citizens but it meant innovation was needed to keep up
the momentum.

Then police chief William Bratton supplied the UCLA team with data and funding
and assigned one of his captains, Sean Malinowski, to work with them.

"Whenever anyone starts

talking about data, I tend to get the mission," says Malinowski, who has a PhD
in public policy.

The next breakthrough came when Brantingham's collaborator, Dr George Mohler,
now an assistant professor of mathematics and computer science at Santa Clara
University, discovered that equations used in mapping the aftershocks of
earthquakes could be manipulated to map crime. Mohler's discovery had the
dramatic effect of allowing the team to quickly apply their theory and create a
working model of Pred Pol.

Before each 12-hour shift, or watch, begins in Foothill, a senior officer logs
in to Pred Pol and calls up the maps for the coming hours on a desktop computer.
Recent and historical crime data are run through Pred Pol, which prints out that
shift's crime "boxes" neatly on a Google map.

So far the system predicts and maps only car theft, burglary from a car, and
burglary, because these constitute more than 60 per cent of crime. The team is
working to expand into gun crime and homicide.

In the long run, it is feasible that the technology could allow police to enter
the time and location suspects are seen on the street and instantly be fed
background material, such as likely gang membership.

While the science is high-tech, Andrea Bertozzi, UCLA's head of applied maths
and the lead mathematician on Pred Pol, says the folded piece of paper handed to
officers is good technology for its purpose.

When police on patrol have time to spare, they are directed to spend time in
their allocated boxes. The beauty is the simplicity. They are not distracted by
interacting with new technology or equipment.

Police report that once in their boxes they find themselves "hyper-alert",
Malinowski says. They take note of who is around, they talk to shopkeepers and
home owners, they check on suspicious activity. Their goal in the boxes is not
so much to catch crooks - though that has happened - but to suppress crime.

In a six-month test in Foothill when the division used Pred Pol strictly - that
is, Pred Pol alone was used for crime prediction, rather than in concert with
the department's analysts - crime rates dropped by 12 per cent overall and 25
per cent for car theft. In a later six-month period, when other intelligence
types were used, crime rates rose, he says.

The results are so dramatic that the force's chief, Charlie Beck, is backing
further research, not only to refine the technology but to push it into new
crime areas. In effect, Malinowski says, Beck has so much confidence in the
model, he is allowing the researchers to use parts of the city as a laboratory
to study crime prediction.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Go figure: Los Angeles police officers and (below) a
mathematical map of crime hot spots. Photo: Getty Images; MAP:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                              May 14, 2013 Tuesday

Cops test-drive preemptive policing

BYLINE: By Zen Vuong, Staff Writer twitter.com/zenstet

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 688 words


ALHAMBRA -- The Alhambra Police Department is the first law-enforcement agency
in Southern California to fully implement Predictive Policing, a cloud-based
software that forecasts areas where crimes are likely to be committed.

Some divisions in the Los Angeles Police Department also use PredPol, which was
developed by a team of mathematicians and social scientists at UCLA, Santa Clara
University and UC Irvine, but Alhambra has pioneered city-wide implementation.

"It's not about predicting who is going to commit a crime. It's about where. It
creates an opportunity for police officers to get in front of those crimes and
deter them," said co-founder Jeffrey Brantingham, a UCLA anthropology professor.

"This is a way of using the data that the police department already have about
where and when crimes are occurring to essentially forecast when and where
future crimes are expected to occur. "

PredPol crunches about five years of law-breaking data to map probable crime
spots. This policing algorithm has become a practical tool only in the last two
years, although it has been in development for the last seven years, Brantingham
said. Places such as Seattle and Santa Cruz already use it and data show that
law-enforcement officers perform six times better when they use PredPol,
Brantingham said.

But he emphasized the software is a tool that is ineffective without skillful
officers, and the preemptive program does not ask agencies to allocate all of
their officers in one neighborhood while abandoning another.

Because Alhambra implemented the program about five months ago, Police Chief
Mark Yokoyama said it's a little too early to see its impact. However, when he
compared numbers from 2012, Yokoyama noted that residential theft has decreased
by 11 percent, car burglaries by 20 percent and grand theft auto by 10 percent
since the program started.

"The only difference between this year and last year is utilizing PredPol in our
policing strategies," Yokoyama said.

At 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily his agency prints a map that compares the most
up-to-date crime statistics with historic figures to tell police what
500-by-500-square-feet area they should pay attention to.

PredPol has made finding criminals easier, Yokohama said, but he doubts the
higher efficiency will lead to layoffs within his department.

"We still rely upon our police officers' intuition, knowledge and personal
data," Yokoyama said. "PredPol might tell us here's an area to focus on today.
That may be different from what a police officer knows based on hot-spot data
within the last 30 days. "

Some Alhambra residents expressed reservations about the new program.

Kelsea Perez, 21, said this new software is a double-edged sword that can lead
to discrimination.

"It can allow for the homeless who live in this area to be pushed away," Perez
said. "(Law enforcement's) goal is prevention, so they're going to do whatever
they can. "

Grinnell Almy, a computer programmer who works in Alhambra, said he sees the
possibility of targeting ethnic minorities, even in a city where about 55
percent of residents are Asian.

"Whenever you use technology, you need to be careful to guard against racial
profiling," he said. "Anything can be used wrongly. You have to be aware and
take it into account. "

Brantingham said PredPol doesn't profile individuals; since it collects data
only on where and when a type of crime has happened it doesn't target offenders,
races or the poor, he said.

Yokohama said preliminary results are very promising and he doesn't see any
negatives in using PredPol.

Using the software as a guide, police presence has been increased in certain
areas, he said.

"It has made our officers more visible within the residential areas than they
have been in the past," he said. "Crime prevention is what we're looking to out
of this. I don't think we'll see a rise in arrests. "

Lien Tran, 45, who lives by Almansor Park, said she's noticed a difference.

Her car window was smashed last year and broken windows at Almansor Park were a
regular occurrence, Tran said, adding that she hasn't noticed broken glass in
the streets since the program started.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lt. Sean Heckers, watch commander at Alhambra Police Department, shows
Tuesday, May 14, 2013 PredPol or Predictive Policing software they began using
this year. The software predicts areas of crime each day showing 10 red boxes
for day and night shifts (SGVN/Staff Photo by Sarah Reingewirtz)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Salinas too busy to use crime predictor

BYLINE: By JULIA REYNOLDS Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 822 words


Until its most recent outbreak of 10 shootings and three homicides in 12 days,
Salinas was on track for the lowest level of gun violence since shootings peaked
in 2009.

Police say they are frustrated because they are finally armed with impressive
new technology for predicting where and when violence is likely to occur   but
they have hardly been able to use it.

The city has for months been testing a "predictive policing" system called
PredPol to see if it is effective in forecasting where and when violent crime is
likely to occur.

After six months' use, the data show that PredPol accurately predicted violent
crime at levels 50 percent higher than the previously used method that maps
high-crime hot spots.

PredPol was used successfully in Santa Cruz County to predict where property
crimes such as burglaries are likely to occur, but until Salinas agreed to try
it, the system hadn't been used to predict violent crime, said Salinas Police
Chief Kelly McMillin.

After Salinas, Detroit adopted the system to try to predict and prevent gun
violence.

"What we're looking for is a net reduction in violence," McMillin said.

Until July's sudden surge   a summer phenomenon not unusual in Salinas   the
city seemed headed in that direction.

Shootings with victims until July 1 totalled 47, putting the year on pace for an
annual total of 93   a 58 percent drop from 151 in 2009.

For years, annual shooting counts have consistently hovered above 100, except in
2011 when the total was 53 for the year   a total police attribute to aggressive
use the year before of the Ceasefire intervention strategy and police roundups
such as Operation Knockout that targeted high-level criminals.

The city's predictive policing tool was created by mathematicians and social
scientists at University of California Los Angeles, Santa Clara University and
UC Irvine who worked with crime analysts and officers at the Santa Cruz and Los
Angeles police departments.

When Salinas police used the technology between August 2012 and February 2013,
violent crime was accurately predicted 48 percent more often than with the old
hot spot method, which relies only on mapping past crimes.

Robberies were correctly predicted 75 percent more often.

PredPol's developers say the technology does not target or profile specific
people, nor does it simply map previous crimes. It does study patterns,
demographics and other data to produce constantly updated "place-based
prediction boxes" that Salinas police review before starting every shift.

But for the system to be effective as a crime prevention tool, researchers say
patrol officers should spend more than two hours of every 10-hour shift in the
areas marked by the highest-crime prediction boxes.

Salinas officers are only able to spend about six minutes per shift in the
priority "boxed" areas in each of three sections of the city, McMillin said.

That undermines the purpose of the technology, he said, which is intended to
prevent new crimes from occurring.

Salinas officers "constantly have to respond to calls for service," McMillin
said. "Ninety-five percent of what we do is reactive."

Analyzing data

Another technology unveiled last year by the department was "situation
awareness" hardware and software that helps police see in real time which
officers are in the area, where they're headed and who might respond to a crime
scene.

The department is still working on deploying that technology and related
radio-based GPS systems with the help of the Naval Postgraduate School in
Monterey.

But McMillin said that implementing that system, called Blue Force Tracking, is
not high on his priority list at this point. Getting more patrols on the streets
is, he said, echoing his ongoing pleas for funds to hire more officers.

Another data setback came last year when the department lost a crime analyst it
had just hired. Police were working with a nonprofit consultant on updating the
city's "problem analysis" report, which pulls together crime statistics, social
factors, educational levels and other data on shooters and their victims.

One such report for 2007-2010 revealed some eye-openers about local crime that
surprised seasoned crime experts here and in other areas.

For example, in San Francisco Bay Area cities troubled by youth violence, murder
victims and their killers were much more likely to know each other.

Other cities' shooters also had longer and more violent crime rap sheets
compared to Salinas' teenaged assailants, who often had no criminal records
before going after their victims.

That's the kind of information that if updated and expanded could help the city
focus its violence prevention and intervention efforts where they're needed
most.

McMillin said his department has found an analyst who passed the security
clearance needed to process crime information from ongoing investigations, but
it hasn't been able to pay her.

Julia Reynolds can be reached at 648-1187 orjreynolds@montereyherald.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ÒNinety-five percent of what we do is reactive,Ó said Salinas Police
Chief Kelly McMillin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Maps, maths, earthquakes and a city's winning formula in the war on crime

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: EXTRA; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1697 words


The LAPD has found a way to get the jump on trouble before it starts, and the
world is taking notice, writes US correspondent Nick O'Malley.

The morning watch at the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill division
begins at 6am, when the shift's officers gather for roll-call and a briefing.

The dozen or so officers file into the roll-call room and find space on the
benches. They are briefed on incidents from the previous shift, and on any
offenders or vehicles they might be looking for. Then, before they hit the
streets, each team is a handed a simple A4 map, warm from an office printer.

It doesn't look like much, but the maps are the result of more than half a
decade's work by anthropologists and pure and applied mathematicians from two
leading American universities, funded by supporters including the US Army and
Navy.

Marked on the maps are a series of little red boxes outlining 150-metre-long
squares superimposed over the streets they will patrol through the shift. The
boxes indicate, with spooky accuracy, where the division's most common crimes
are most likely to be committed during the 12-hour shift.

The Predictive Policing project, or Pred Pol, as it has become known, has been
so successful in cutting crime rates since it was tested in Foothill in 2011
that it has spread to seven other LA police divisions, with more to come.
Another 20 or so police departments across the US have signed on, as have
departments in Britain.

It is understood at least one Australian force is in talks to sign up, though
its creators decline to discuss potential customers.

One of the driving forces behind Pred Pol is Dr Jeff Brantingham, an
anthropologist at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), who
struggled bravely to find simple-enough language to describe the science behind
the technology.

Crime prediction is not a new field. All street cops know the crime hot spots on
their beat, and larger police forces have been employing crime analysts and
software to assist them for years. It has been successful, too. The standard
measure of accuracy for crime prediction is multiplications of random. Current
techniques are usually effective about three times random. Pred Pol is twice as
effective, accurate to six times random. And it is likely to improve.

Brantingham, a former archaeologist who never lost the interest in crime
ingrained in him by his criminologist parents, says the key insight that
informed early work on Pred Pol was to tackle crime prediction via mathematics,
rather than the social sciences.

Usually, crime analysts look at crime patterns combined with social and
geographical factors. They would look at a particular area's crime history,
demographic make-up, the location of transport and late-opening bars that might
attract potential crooks - mostly young men - and victims.

Pred Pol strips all that away. It simply feeds three different factors - crime
type, time and location - through the dizzyingly sophisticated equations and
algorithms the team has created.

"The problem with considering [things such as] how many open bars there are is
that it misses the point," Brantingham says. "The key information is the number
of assaults or robberies, and you already know that."

The team began in 2005 by considering crime through a spatial rather than social
lens. If you consider a potential criminal and a potential target to be, for
example, two atoms floating in a body of fluid, what factors would cause them to
meet - and how and when? And, later, what other factors might interrupt that
meeting?

Working with Brantingham, UCLA's applied mathematics department began
investigating models that described events such as chemical reactions and the
way substances diffuse in fluid. Even fish migration predictions came up in the
discussion.

Soon the LAPD had become involved. Brantingham had appealed to the department
for access to crime data, and had feared he might be met with old-guard
suspicion. Instead, the department threw itself into the project.

At the time, the LAPD suffered from an awkward problem: crime was falling
relentlessly across the city and had been for a few years. The city that had
registered 1092 murders in a single year two decades ago lost just 298 of its
citizens to violence in 2012, when it became the safest big city in the US.

This was good news for citizens, but since the only real measure of a police
force's success is lower year-on-year crime rates, it meant innovation was
needed to keep up the momentum. As one officer puts it, all the low-hanging
fruit had gone.

The then LAPD chief, William Bratton, not only supplied the UCLA team with any
data they asked for, but also assigned one of his captains, Sean Malinowski, to
work with them. He even kicked in extra funding.

"Whenever anyone starts talking about data, I tend to get the mission,"
Malinowski says. This is probably because the 48-year-old cop has a PhD in
public policy. Data and statistics don't scare him and he can speak basic
academic.

The next breakthrough came when Brantingham's collaborator, Dr George Mohler,
now an assistant professor of mathematics and computer science at Santa Clara
University, discovered that equations used in mapping the aftershocks of
earthquakes could be manipulated to map crime. Mohler's discovery had the
dramatic effect of allowing the team to quickly apply their theory and create a
working model of Pred Pol. With hindsight, Brantingham says, the link between
seismology and crime makes sense. Research already showed how criminal events
caused their own aftershocks, such as when burglars returned to homes or streets
where they had already had success.

Before each 12-hour shift, or watch, begins in Foothill, a senior officer logs
in to Pred Pol with a password and calls up the maps for the coming hours on a
desktop computer.

Software runs up-to-date and historical crime data through Pred Pol's algorithms
and spits out that shift's crime "boxes", which are all printed neatly on a
Google map.

The operator can also pull up historical crime records going back hours or days,
weeks or months.

So far the system in use predicts and maps only car theft, burglary from a car,
and burglary, because these constitute more than 60 per cent of crime.

The team is working to expand into gun crime and homicide.

In the long run, it is feasible that the technology could allow police to enter,
say, the time and location suspects are seen on the street and instantly be fed
background material, such as what their gang affiliation is likely to be, and
how that gang fits into the broader criminal ecology of the area.

The technology is already so sophisticated that police on patrol could be given
their own logins and pull up even more detailed maps via smartphones or tablets.
The boxes could be ranked for risk and police could even watch them move slowly
across the map during the watch. As police attention focused on particular
boxes, they could change colour as the risk of crime abated with police
presence.

So far, the developers believe that could lead to information overload. Police
are basically hunters, Brantingham says. Should the boxes be ranked, they would
focus on the top tiers.

Besides, says Andrea Bertozzi, UCLA's head of applied maths and the lead
mathematician on Pred Pol, the folded piece of paper is good technology for its
purpose.

When police on patrol have time to spare, they are directed to spend time in
their allocated boxes. The beauty is the simplicity. They are not distracted by
interacting with new technology or equipment.

Police report that once in their boxes they find themselves "hyper-alert",
Malinowski says. They take note of who is around, they talk to shopkeepers and
home owners, they check on suspicious activity. Their goal in the boxes is not
so much to catch crooks - though that has happened - but to suppress crime.

Malinowski dismisses early criticism that the program might simply diffuse
crime, saying new research showed that the type of crooks they were after, such
as car thieves, were opportunistic, and often give up in the face of risk. "We
are not talking about committed criminals like a serial rapist," he says.

As Brantingham puts it: "It is not too hard to convince them back home to their
Xboxes."

The American Criminal Law Review has raised the concern that the program could
warp crime statistics, either by increasing the arrest rate in the boxes through
extra policing, or falsely reducing it through diffusion.

Civil-rights groups are taking the former concern seriously because designating
an area a crime hot spot can be used as a factor in formulating "reasonable
suspicion" for stopping a suspect.

Malinowski says so far there is no evidence of an increase of civil-rights
complaints, and the statistics clearly show crime is decreasing.

In a six-month test in Foothill when the division used Pred Pol strictly - that
is, Pred Pol alone was used for crime prediction, rather than in concert with
the department's analysts - crime rates dropped by 12 per cent overall and 25
per cent for car theft. In a later six-month period, when other intelligence
types were used, crime rates rose, he says.

The results are so dramatic that the force's chief, Charlie Beck, is backing
further research, not only to refine the technology but to push it into new
crime areas. In effect, Malinowski says, Beck has so much confidence in the
model, he is allowing the researchers to use parts of the city as a laboratory
to study crime prediction. And his confidence is mirrored around the country and
the world as other police forces adopt the technology.

Because the system uses such basic data, the technology is easily transferable
and blind to cultural difference, Brantingham says. Once the team has access to
a police department's computer system, they can be online within a couple of
weeks, he says.

The research has clearly made a splash at UCLA, which is enjoying not only new
sources of research funding but also the flow of Pred Pol subscription fees.

In February, Bertozzi was awarded a new named chair, one of the university's
highest honours.

UCLA cited her work on the unique mathematics behind Pred Pol as one of her the
department's key successes.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New beat: LA police are issued predictive policing maps (right).
Photo: Getty Images; MAP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday
                                 First Edition

To predict and to serve: the future of law enforcement

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: EXTRA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1721 words


The Los Angeles Police Department has joined forces with academics to develop a
statistical model that maps crime before it happens, writes Nick O'Malley.

The morning watch at the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill division
begins at 6am, when the shift's officers gather in their midnight blue uniforms
for roll-call and a briefing.

The dozen or so officers file into the roll-call room and find space on the
benches. They are briefed on major incidents from the previous shift and on any
offenders or vehicles they might be looking for. Then, before they hit the
streets, each team is a handed a simple A4 map, warm from an office printer.

It doesn't look like much but the little printed maps are the result of more
than half a decade's work and research by anthropologists and pure and applied
mathematicians from two leading American universities, funded by supporters
including the US Army and US Navy and working hand-in-hand with the LAPD.

Marked on them are a series of little red boxes - 150-metre-long squares
superimposed over the streets they will patrol through the shift. The boxes
indicate, with spooky accuracy, where the division's most common crimes are most
likely to be committed during their 12-hour shift.

The Predictive Policing project, or Pred Pol as it has become known, has been so
successful in cutting crime rates since it was first tested in Foothill in 2011
that it has spread to seven other LA police divisions, with more to come.
Another 20 or so police departments around America have signed on, as have
departments in Britain.

It is understood at least one Australian police service is in talks to sign up,
though its creators decline to discuss potential customers.

One of the driving forces behind Pred Pol is Jeff Brantingham, an anthropologist
at the University of California, Los Angeles, who, as he guided Fairfax around
the leafy UCLA campus, struggled bravely to find simple enough language to
describe the science behind the technology.

Crime prediction is not a new field. All street cops know the crime hot spots on
their beat and larger police forces have been employing crime analysts and
software to assist them for years. It has been successful, too. The standard
measure of accuracy for crime prediction is multiplications of random. Current
techniques are normally effective at about three times random. Pred Pol is twice
as effective, accurate to six times random. And it is likely to improve.
Brantingham, a former archaeologist who never lost the interest in crime
ingrained in him by his criminologist parents, says the idea that informed early
work on Pred Pol was to tackle crime prediction using mathematics rather than
the social sciences.

Normally, crime analysts look at crime patterns combined with social and
geographical factors. They would look at a particular area's crime history,
demographic make-up, the location of transport and late-opening bars that might
attract potential crooks - mostly young men - and victims.

Pred Pol strips all that away. It simply feeds three factors - crime type, time
and location - through the dizzyingly sophisticated equations and algorithms the
team has created.

"The problem with considering [things like] how many open bars there are is that
it misses the point," Brantingham says. "The key information is the number of
assaults or robberies and you already know that."

The team began in 2005 by considering crime through a spatial, rather than
social, lens. If you consider a potential criminal and a potential target to be,
for example, two atoms floating in a body of fluid, what factors would cause
them to meet - and how, and when? And, later, what other factors might interrupt
that meeting?

Working with Brantingham, UCLA's applied mathematics department began
investigating models that described events such as chemical reactions and the
way substances diffuse in fluid. Even fish migration predictions came up in
discussion.

By now the LAPD had become involved. Brantingham had appealed to the department
for access to crime data and had feared he might be met with old-guard
suspicion.

Instead, the department threw itself into the project.

At the time the LAPD suffered from an awkward problem - crime was falling
relentlessly across the city and had been for a few years. The city that had
registered 1092 murders in a single year two decades ago lost just 298 of its
citizens to violence last year, when it became the safest big city in the US.

This was good news for citizens but since the only real measure of a police
force's success is lower year-on-year crime rates, it meant innovation was
needed to keep up the momentum. As one officer puts it, all the low-hanging
fruit had gone.

The then LAPD chief William Bratton not only supplied the UCLA team with any
data they asked for, he assigned one of his captains, Sean Malinowski, to work
with them. He even kicked in extra funding.

"Whenever anyone starts talking about data, I tend to get the mission,"
Malinowski says. This is probably because the 48-year-old cop has a PhD in
public policy. Data and statistics don't scare him and he can speak basic
academic.

The next breakthrough came when Brantingham's collaborator, George Mohler, now
an assistant professor of mathematics and computer science at Santa Clara
University, discovered that equations used in mapping the aftershocks of
earthquakes could be manipulated to map crime.

Mohler's discovery had the dramatic effect of allowing the team to quickly begin
applying their theory and creating a working model of Pred Pol. With hindsight,
Brantingham says, the link between seismology and crime makes sense.

Research already showed how criminal events caused their own aftershocks, such
as when burglars returned to homes or streets where they had already enjoyed
success.

Before each 12-hour shift, or watch, begins in Foothill, a senior officer logs
into Pred Pol and calls up the maps for the coming hours on a desktop computer.

Software instantly runs up-to-date and historical crime data through Pred Pol's
algorithms and spits out that shift's crime "boxes", all printed neatly on a
Google map.

Clicking on a toolbar, the operator can also pull up historical crime records
going back hours or days, weeks or months.

So far the system in use predicts and maps only car theft, burglary from cars
and burglary, because these constitute more than 60 per cent of all crime. The
team is working to expand into gun crime and homicide in the near future.

In the long run it is feasible the technology could allow police to enter, say,
the time and location a suspect is seen on the street, then instantly be fed
background material, such as what their gang affiliation is likely to be and how
that gang fits into the broader criminal ecology of the area.

The technology is already so sophisticated that police on patrol could be given
their own logins to pull up even more detailed maps using smartphones or
tablets. The boxes could be ranked for risk and police could even watch them
move slowly across the map through the shift.

As police attention focuses on particular boxes, they could change colour as the
risk of crime abates with police presence.

The developers believe that could lead to information overload. Police are
basically hunters, Brantingham says. Should the boxes be ranked, they would
focus on the top tiers.

Besides, says the lead UCLA mathematician on the project, Andrea Bertozzi, the
folded piece of paper is actually good technology for its purpose.

When police on patrol have time to spare they are directed to spend time in
their allocated boxes. The beauty is the simplicity. They are not distracted by
interacting with new technology or equipment.

Police report that once in their boxes, they find themselves "hyper alert"
Malinowski says. They take note of who is around, they talk to shopkeepers and
home owners, they check on suspicious activity. Their goal in the boxes is not
so much to catch crooks - though that has happened - but to suppress crime.
Malinowski dismisses early criticism that the program might simply diffuse
crime, saying new research showed the type of crooks they were after, such as
car thieves, were opportunistic and would often give up in the face of risk. "We
are not talking about committed criminals like a serial rapist," he says.

As Brantingham puts it: "It is not too hard to convince them back home to their
Xboxes."

The American Criminal Law Review has raised concerns the program could warp
crime statistics, either by increasing the arrest rate in the boxes through
extra policing or falsely reducing it through diffusion.

Civil rights groups are taking the former concern seriously because designating
an area a crime hot spot can be used as a factor in formulating "reasonable
suspicion" for stopping a suspect. Malinowski says there is no evidence of an
increase in civil rights complaints and the statistics clearly show crime is
decreasing.

In a six-month test in Foothill, when the division used Pred Pol strictly - that
is, Pred Pol alone was used for crime prediction, rather than in concert with
the department's analysts - crime rates dropped by 12 per cent overall and 25
per cent for car theft. In a later six-month period, when other intelligence
types were used, crime rates began to climb, Malinowski says.

The results are so dramatic the LAPD's current chief, Charlie Beck, is backing
further research, not only to refine the technology but to push it into new
crime areas.

In effect, says Malinowski, Beck has so much confidence in the model he is
allowing the researchers to use parts of the city as a laboratory to study crime
prediction. And his confidence is mirrored around the country and the world as
other police forces adopt the technology.

Because the system uses such basic data, the technology is easily transferable
and is blind to cultural difference, Brantingham says.

Once the team has access to a police department's computer system, they can be
online within a couple of weeks, he says.

The research has clearly made a splash at UCLA, which is enjoying new sources of
research funding and the flow of Pred Pol subscription fees.

Last month, Professor Bertozzi was honoured with a new named chair, one of the
university's highest awards.

UCLA cited her work on the maths behind Pred Pol as one of the department's key
successes.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO/MAP: LAPD officers outside police headquarters in February, and
(far right) a predictive map. PICTURE: GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

San Jose crime rate surpasses U.S. average, arrests plummet

BYLINE: By Mike Rosenberg mrosenberg@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local

LENGTH: 913 words


SAN JOSE -- Just how bad has crime gotten in San Jose? Once known as America's
Safest Big City, the capital of Silicon Valley has a higher crime rate than
California or the United States as a whole, while the city's police force is
catching half as many criminals as it did just a few years ago.

That's according to a new analysis by the city's independent auditor, which also
found the city was clearing a far lower percentage of crimes than the average
U.S. city and had seen police response time for some emergency calls more than
double in eight years.

The new data come as the six major candidates for mayor each jockey to make
public safety their top priority heading into the wide-open June primary. And
police Chief Larry Esquivel, sworn in last week, confronts a department with low
morale as officers continue to flee for better-paying jobs elsewhere.

"What we're seeing is the effect of 10 years of skyrocketing costs" for police
officers, Mayor Chuck Reed said of the depleted force. "I believe it has an
impact on the crime rate -- I think we're seeing that in the deterioration of
services. We need more officers."

Among the findings from auditor Sharon Winslow Erickson's annual report:

San Jose's major crimes rate was 35 percent below the U.S. and California
averages a decade ago. But last year, it climbed to 3,278 major crimes per
100,000 residents, 3 percent above the California average and 1 percent above
the U.S. average, and higher than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Police made about 17,000 arrests last year, down from roughly 36,000 in 2007.

Response times for Priority Two emergency calls, such as attempted rapes and
gang disturbances, have shot up from 8.2 minutes in 2005 to more than 20 minutes
in 2013.

While the average U.S. police department solves nearly half its major cases, San
Jose's clearance rate on major crimes has fallen to 30 percent.

San Jose's crime rate is still far lower than those of San Francisco and
Oakland. And an unusually large share of San Jose's crimes are burglaries,
vehicle thefts and other property crimes, while its violent crime rate is still
lower than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Several mayoral candidates are vying to recapture San Jose's oft-boasted "safest
big city" award, bestowed by independent groups until 2006.

The politics are tricky, however, as voters want both crime and taxes to stay
low.

To balance its budget, the city imposed a 10 percent pay cut for police
officers, and voters approved city employee pension cutbacks last year. But San
Jose has lost or laid off hundreds of officers, and its active duty force has
dropped to about 920 officers. Erickson said the dwindling police force has
likely contributed to the recent sharp drop in arrests.

The City Council last week approved a 10 percent pay restoration for police
officers, while the Police Officers Association union is fighting the pension
changes in court.

"Every (mayoral) candidate will fall over themselves to tell voters how they
will restore staffing in the Police Department," said one mayoral candidate,
Councilman Sam Liccardo. "The truth is that none of us will. It's going to take
a lot of time no matter who is in office -- the question is, 'What are we going
to do in the meantime?'"

Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave Cortese, the union-backed mayoral candidate,
wants the city to spend more on its employees to beef up the police force and
increase morale. Termed-out Reed's five City Council allies running to replace
him -- Pete Constant, Rose Herrera, Liccardo, Madison Nguyen and Pierluigi
Oliverio -- have backed the more moderate approach officials have taken in
recent years, saying controlling employee cost is vital to keeping services,
including police, intact.

"We can talk all we want about rebuilding the Police Department, but the reality
is, if we don't have the financial resources to do so, we're not going to do any
meaningful reform," said Nguyen, a strong backer of pension reform.

But while voters have preached fiscal restraint in the past, now they are
increasingly aware of the police problems, too.

A new city-sponsored scientific survey of 219 San Jose residents, cited in the
report, found that 27 percent of respondents had a member of their household who
was a victim of a crime last year, up from 12 percent each of the prior two
years. Favorability ratings for the Police Department also fell from 61 percent
two years ago to 51 percent now, while fewer people said they felt safe around
town and in their own neighborhoods.

Among the candidates' ideas: Constant wants to spend a bigger portion of the
budget on police; Liccardo favors implementing predictive policing software;
Nguyen is seeking to re-establish the burglary unit; and Herrera wants more
administrative staffers to free up officers for field work.

"I don't think San Jose can take for granted that it's always going to be a safe
city," Herrera said. "It takes a lot of work."

Contact Mike Rosenberg at 408-920-5705. Follow him atTwitter.com/RosenbergMerc
.Average police clearance rates for major crimes:
San Jose: 30 percent
U.S.: 47 percent
California: 44 percent

Arrests by San Jose police:
2007: 36,172
2012: 17,278

Emergency calls to San Jose police
July 2009-June 2010: 368,905
July 2012-June 2013: 454,919

Average San Jose police priority two emergency response times
2005: 8.2 minutes
2013: 20.3 minutes
Source: San Jose Office of the City Auditor, annual
report:http://www.sanjoseca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24941 (police section starts
on page 83)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 16, 2013 Monday

San Jose crime rate surpasses U.S. average, arrests plummet

BYLINE: By Mike Rosenberg mrosenberg@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 913 words


SAN JOSE -- Just how bad has crime gotten in San Jose? Once known as America's
Safest Big City, the capital of Silicon Valley has a higher crime rate than
California or the United States as a whole, while the city's police force is
catching half as many criminals as it did just a few years ago.

That's according to a new analysis by the city's independent auditor, which also
found the city was clearing a far lower percentage of crimes than the average
U.S. city and had seen police response time for some emergency calls more than
double in eight years.

The new data come as the six major candidates for mayor each jockey to make
public safety their top priority heading into the wide-open June primary. And
police Chief Larry Esquivel, sworn in last week, confronts a department with low
morale as officers continue to flee for better-paying jobs elsewhere.

"What we're seeing is the effect of 10 years of skyrocketing costs" for police
officers, Mayor Chuck Reed said of the depleted force. "I believe it has an
impact on the crime rate -- I think we're seeing that in the deterioration of
services. We need more officers."

Among the findings from auditor Sharon Winslow Erickson's annual report:

San Jose's major crimes rate was 35 percent below the U.S. and California
averages a decade ago. But last year, it climbed to 3,278 major crimes per
100,000 residents, 3 percent above the California average and 1 percent above
the U.S. average, and higher than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Police made about 17,000 arrests last year, down from roughly 36,000 in 2007.

Response times for Priority Two emergency calls, such as attempted rapes and
gang disturbances, have shot up from 8.2 minutes in 2005 to more than 20 minutes
in 2013.

While the average U.S. police department solves nearly half its major cases, San
Jose's clearance rate on major crimes has fallen to 30 percent.

San Jose's crime rate is still far lower than those of San Francisco and
Oakland. And an unusually large share of San Jose's crimes are burglaries,
vehicle thefts and other property crimes, while its violent crime rate is still
lower than Los Angeles and San Diego.

Several mayoral candidates are vying to recapture San Jose's oft-boasted "safest
big city" award, bestowed by independent groups until 2006.

The politics are tricky, however, as voters want both crime and taxes to stay
low.

To balance its budget, the city imposed a 10 percent pay cut for police
officers, and voters approved city employee pension cutbacks last year. But San
Jose has lost or laid off hundreds of officers, and its active duty force has
dropped to about 920 officers. Erickson said the dwindling police force has
likely contributed to the recent sharp drop in arrests.

The City Council last week approved a 10 percent pay restoration for police
officers, while the Police Officers Association union is fighting the pension
changes in court.

"Every (mayoral) candidate will fall over themselves to tell voters how they
will restore staffing in the Police Department," said one mayoral candidate,
Councilman Sam Liccardo. "The truth is that none of us will. It's going to take
a lot of time no matter who is in office -- the question is, 'What are we going
to do in the meantime?'"

Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave Cortese, the union-backed mayoral candidate,
wants the city to spend more on its employees to beef up the police force and
increase morale. Termed-out Reed's five City Council allies running to replace
him -- Pete Constant, Rose Herrera, Liccardo, Madison Nguyen and Pierluigi
Oliverio -- have backed the more moderate approach officials have taken in
recent years, saying controlling employee cost is vital to keeping services,
including police, intact.

"We can talk all we want about rebuilding the Police Department, but the reality
is, if we don't have the financial resources to do so, we're not going to do any
meaningful reform," said Nguyen, a strong backer of pension reform.

But while voters have preached fiscal restraint in the past, now they are
increasingly aware of the police problems, too.

A new city-sponsored scientific survey of 219 San Jose residents, cited in the
report, found that 27 percent of respondents had a member of their household who
was a victim of a crime last year, up from 12 percent each of the prior two
years. Favorability ratings for the Police Department also fell from 61 percent
two years ago to 51 percent now, while fewer people said they felt safe around
town and in their own neighborhoods.

Among the candidates' ideas: Constant wants to spend a bigger portion of the
budget on police; Liccardo favors implementing predictive policing software;
Nguyen is seeking to re-establish the burglary unit; and Herrera wants more
administrative staffers to free up officers for field work.

"I don't think San Jose can take for granted that it's always going to be a safe
city," Herrera said. "It takes a lot of work."

Contact Mike Rosenberg at 408-920-5705. Follow him atTwitter.com/RosenbergMerc .

Average police clearance rates for major crimes:

San Jose: 30 percent
U.S.: 47 percent
California: 44 percent


Arrests by San Jose police:

2007: 36,172
2012: 17,278


Emergency calls to San Jose police

July 2009-June 2010: 368,905
July 2012-June 2013: 454,919


Average San Jose police priority two emergency response times

2005: 8.2 minutes
2013: 20.3 minutes
Source: San Jose Office of the City Auditor, annual
report:http://www.sanjoseca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/24941 (police section starts
on page 83)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: San Jose police investigation, August 2013: A police officer shot at a
suspected grocery store robber allegedly brandishing a weapon. The suspect then
surrendered. (Gary Reyes/Bay Area News Group)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                             Government Technology

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

LAPD Tests Situational Awareness Tool

BYLINE: Sarah Rich, Government Technology

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


Oct. 15--Mobile and touchscreen mapping technologies are some of the latest
innovations that the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is using to improve
situational awareness in the city.

To more effectively oversee patrol areas and move past paper maps, the LAPD has
been piloting TouchShare, a solution that produces real-time visual geospatial
information that is collected and mapped out on a single screen. The combined
data gives officers at the command center an aerial vantage point of large-scale
events and the ability to zoom in and out on what's displayed. Police can
communicate with one another on any changes or updates based off the information
seen on the screen.

"TouchShare lets everyone view and contribute to what others are seeing in real
time and ensures that everyone has the most accurate, current and relevant data,
so emergency situations can be dealt with quickly and precisely," said
TouchShare CEO Bob Pette, in a statement.

According to LAPD Officer Chris Bouse, the LAPD first tested TouchShare during
the 2011 NBA All-Star Game and its related activities in Los Angeles. For the
game, the LAPD laid out a map of the entire venue and used it to mark all of the
facility's surveillance camera positions, personnel positions and where certain
smaller events within the entire event were taking place. Bouse added that
having a more comprehensive visual also helped with pre-planning in case a
disaster occurred.

Since 2011, the LAPD has continued testing the technology for various events.
But Bouse explained that ideally, the department would like to expand the
technology's use for other law enforcement work, including predictive policing
and emergency preparedness.

"It's one of those things where the potential of it is almost limitless," Bouse
said. "It's going to be one of those products that doesn't do just one thing."

Future Use

The LAPD would like to use TouchShare in a variety of other ways. One idea on
the table is to connect all police departments in California over satellite,
enabling agencies to use TouchShare to better coordinate rescue efforts and
request supplies during a disaster situation.

If personnel all have access to TouchShare, the LAPD's command center can send
out real-time visual imagery to officers in the field to help with faster
response. If response plans need to change, the command center can make
adjustments based on what they're seeing.

LAPD command staff also use iPads to connect personnel and view TouchShare maps.
But according to Bouse, budgetary challenges may limit further expansion.

___ (c)2013 Government Technology Visit Government Technology at www.govtech.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131015-1GT-LAPD-Tests-Situational-Awareness-Tool-1015-20131015

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GT


                                 Copyright 2013


                               13 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                              Emergency Management

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday

LAPD Tests Situational Awareness Tool

BYLINE: Sarah Rich, Emergency Management

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 447 words


Oct. 16--Mobile and touchscreen mapping technologies are some of the latest
innovations that the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is using to improve
situational awareness in the city.

To more effectively oversee patrol areas and move past paper maps, the LAPD has
been piloting TouchShare, a solution that produces real-time visual geospatial
information that is collected and mapped out on a single screen. The combined
data gives officers at the command center an aerial vantage point of large-scale
events and the ability to zoom in and out on what's displayed. Police can
communicate with one another on any changes or updates based off the information
seen on the screen.

"TouchShare lets everyone view and contribute to what others are seeing in real
time and ensures that everyone has the most accurate, current and relevant data,
so emergency situations can be dealt with quickly and precisely," said
TouchShare CEO Bob Pette, in a statement.

According to LAPD Officer Chris Bouse, the LAPD first tested TouchShare during
the 2011 NBA All-Star Game and its related activities in Los Angeles. For the
game, the LAPD laid out a map of the entire venue and used it to mark all of the
facility's surveillance camera positions, personnel positions and where certain
smaller events within the entire event were taking place. Bouse added that
having a more comprehensive visual also helped with pre-planning in case a
disaster occurred.

Since 2011, the LAPD has continued testing the technology for various events.
But Bouse explained that ideally, the department would like to expand the
technology's use for other law enforcement work, including predictive policing
and emergency preparedness.

"It's one of those things where the potential of it is almost limitless," Bouse
said. "It's going to be one of those products that doesn't do just one thing."

Future Use

The LAPD would like to use TouchShare in a variety of other ways. One idea on
the table is to connect all police departments in California over satellite,
enabling agencies to use TouchShare to better coordinate rescue efforts and
request supplies during a disaster situation.

If personnel all have access to TouchShare, the LAPD's command center can send
out real-time visual imagery to officers in the field to help with faster
response. If response plans need to change, the command center can make
adjustments based on what they're seeing.

LAPD command staff also use iPads to connect personnel and view TouchShare maps.
But according to Bouse, budgetary challenges may limit further expansion.

___ (c)2013 Emergency Management Visit Emergency Management at
www.emergencymgmt.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131016-1EM-LAPD-Tests-Situational-Awareness-Tool-1016-20131016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1EM


                      Copyright 2013 Emergency Management


                               14 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                December 6, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cracking crime with help of a computer;
PREDPOL: Can algorithms really predict where thieves and burglars will strike?

BYLINE: Shams Al-Shakarchi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 647 words


COULD a computer predict where crimes are about to happen in Tonbridge? It is
not quite Spielberg's Minority Report but it could be the future of policing.

Pioneered in Los Angeles, Predictive Policing was adopted by Kent Police a year
ago as a way to combat crime more effectively as well as meet the public's
demands to see more bobbies on the beat. 1

With tighter budgets and fewer resources, this 21st century model allows the
force to patrol the right areas at the right time with the aim of reducing
crime.

The Los Angeles Police Department has already hailed the groundbreaking
technology a success. Historic crime figures specific to Kent and academic
research into criminal behaviour are input into a computer where an algorithm
produces data telling officers were offences are likely to happen.

Chief Constable Ian Learmonth told the Courier: "It's about being in the right
place at the right time. Priority "We can configure it to what is a priority for
us at the time. In the summer there was a lot more violence.

But it can be reconfigured to vehicle crimes, anti-social behaviour or
burglaries.

"If you are a victim of crime there is an increased likelihood of being a victim
in the few weeks after. "For instance in a burglary, the burglar would know the
layout of your house and where the belongings are. They would know you would
have replaced the goods stolen."

He added: "In LA, their statistics were fantastic. They went to their worst
performing division and got a 13 per cent reduction in crime." Kent Police carry
out a PredPol "high profile blitz" four or five times a day. The latest was on
Friday when 300 officers and police staff - for example those who work in the
finance department - patrolled specific PredPol zones. These zones measuring 500
square feet are patrolled by two officers for 15 minutes at a time.

The zone is continuously patrolled over a 12 hour period.

In August's PredPol day, arrests were made for assault, possession of drugs and
carrying a knife. It also led to a 10 per cent reduction in crime over the next
24 hours as well as a drop in calls to police.

Chief Constable Learmonth said: "People ask if we get a 10 per cent cut in
crime, why don't we do it every day? "We don't have the resources to be able to
do that. We can do it every four to five months, especially at times of
particular challenges, for example burglaries. That's an issue for us.

Presents "The nights are drawing in, Christmas presents are being left under the
trees, people are out and about more. For people who are not officers, it's not
their day job. They really look forward to it as they're coppers for the day.
They wouldn't be rugby tackling people to the ground, but they have their
high-vis jackets and can offer advice."

Positive about 'digging down' THE Courier joined Inspector Sonia Lassnig and
PCSO Linda Baker in PredPol Zone Q - covering Trench Road and Northwood Road in
Tonbridge.

The area was identified by the PredPol computer as being at high risk of crime.
The pair spent 15 to 20 minutes walking around speaking to local residents.
While no arrests were made or houses raided, the presence of the policewomen
seemed to have a positive effect on the neighbourhood.

PCSO Baker, who has been with the force for 27 years, said: "It's nice for
residents to see us. They sometimes come out of their houses and have a chat
with us.

Inspector Sonia Lassnig, an officer for 22 years, has seen how the force has
changed and adapted over the years and says residents are still positive about
the service they get.

She said: "I think people are quite realistic. They don't expect us to come out
with our super hero capes on.

"They know we would do all we can.

"It's about being satisfied with the service.

"When we do service checks everyone says they understand we have got a difficult
time but they are positive about us.

When we dig down, people do understand."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLICING: On patrol around the Trench Road area with Ins Sonia Lossnig
and PCSO Linda Baker TWLD20131129A-008_C
FAITH IN TECHNOLOGY: Kent Police Chief Constable Ian Learmonth
TWLD20131129A-007_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSC


                     Copyright 2013 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             May 11, 2013 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                 Final Edition

Crunching numbers to catch bad guys; UCLA researchers develop algorithm to
predict crime

BYLINE: Mariam Ibrahim, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 961 words


When it comes to predicting crime, at least part of the answer may lie with
earthquakes.

Much like seismologists use one earthquake to predict its aftershocks, a team of
researchers at the University of California-Los Angeles is using a complicated
algorithm to help police figure out when and where the next likely break-in or
mugging will happen.

"It's not that earthquakes cause crime," says Andrea Bertozzi, a professor in
the university's department of applied mathematics. "It's that earthquakes
trigger other earthquakes, and crime also triggers other crime."

She recently gave a lecture at the University of Alberta on the topic of
mathematics and crime.

Using ideas from the earthquake-prediction model, the UCLA researchers are
"looking at new crimes possibly being spun off from existing crimes - the
after-crimes," Bertozzi says.

The intent is to arm police with information on how to best use their thinly
stretched resources in neighbourhoods where crimes are most likely to happen.

In Edmonton, police have been using IBM business analytic technology since 2005.

Using math to predict and solve crimes might seem like part of a plot from the
television drama NUMB3RS, but for the researchers it makes perfect sense.

Most police agencies already keep data on when and where break-and-enters,
robberies and other crimes are happening. Bertozzi and the team at UCLA, which
is funded by the U.S. National Science Review **Correction: U.S. National
Science Foundation**, take that data and, coupled with years of past records,
feed it into a model that will give police a time and place to focus their
efforts.

Police in Edmonton have used an intelligence-focused policing model for more
than eight years, but haven't begun to use any one tool to focus on the when and
where of crimes.

Instead, the department relies on a variety of sources - data mining, crime
mapping and officer-gathered intelligence - to figure out which neighbourhoods
officers should patrol.

"Although we do have these tools, it's pulling them all together and combining
that with the human elements of our crime analysts, our division commanders and
our patrol members, that really helps us make those decisions about where to
deploy on a daily basis and where to deploy for specific initiatives," says
Joanne Graham, director of business intelligence for the Edmonton Police
Service.

The math works because humans are creatures of habit - even the ones trying to
evade police.

"People are going to work, visiting relatives, they're going to places they
routinely visit, and then a crime of opportunity happens," Bertozzi says.

In the same way, a criminal might break into a house then return to the same
neighbourhood because they've become familiar with the surroundings. It could be
the thief knows homes on one side of a street are vulnerable because of a broken
street light. Or perhaps he has passed a tip to a criminal accomplice.

"It's about being comfortable in your environment, identifying targets and using
the knowledge you have," Ber-tozzi says.

Of course, there are major differences between aftershocks and so-called
after-crimes, which is why the algorithm is so useful.

"While you may have a big earthquake, you're not necessarily expecting the
aftershock to have the same magnitude," Bertozzi explains.

"With crime data, that's not the case. We're looking at crimes that could be
related to an initial crime, but could be equally bad to the initial crime or
even worse."

Poring over the crime data reveals patterns, Bertozzi says, which puts that
information somewhere between completely random and 100-percent predictable. The
research uses mathematics to try to bridge that gap between random and
predictable.

In 2011, the Santa Cruz po-ice department, which hadn't been following a
predictive policing model, tested software developed by the UCLA researchers.
Officers were given a list of locations and times and were told to patrol those
areas whenever they weren't responding to calls.

In one month, the department saw crime drop by 27 per cent.

In 2005, Edmonton police began seriously working toward a policing model based
on intelligence and smart resource deployment. The department adopted a
geographic deployment model that saw patrol squads assigned to specific
districts to foster a sense of ownership. At the same time, the department began
using IBM analytic software that crunches crime data, helping identify trends.

"It lets us take a close look at what's happening, when is it happening, where
is it happening and who is involved," Graham says.

The department has set a target for 25 per cent of patrol officers' time to be
spent doing proactive work, she says.

Division commanders use data reports, crime-mapping tools and intelligence
gathered from beat cops to pinpoint where officers should work proactive
patrols.

"By setting aside that 25 per cent time, we're saying to patrol officers: 'It's
important for you to obviously respond to calls, both emergency and
non-emergency calls, but we have an expectation that you're going to undertake
activities to both prevent and suppress crime,' " Graham says.

Since 2007, the crime rate in Edmonton has dropped, with robberies,
break-and-enters and car thefts on a steady downward trend, according to
Statistics Canada. Graham doesn't attribute that strictly to mathematical and
analytic tools, "but it did allow us to be smarter about how we did our
policing."

While Bertozzi recognizes the crime-prevention software isn't a substitute for
traditional police work, she does see it as "one tool in their arsenal of tools
to deter and solve crime.

"That's where we think the win is here - one could potentially use resources
more efficiently if one pays attention to the data."

mibrahim@edmontonjournal. com

Twitter.com/mariamdena

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2013



CORRECTION: ***A team of researchers at the University of California - Los
Angeles using mathematics to predict crime is funded by the U.S. National
Science Foundation. Incorrect information appeared on C3 of Saturday's Journal.
***

GRAPHIC: Shaughn Butts, Edmonton Journal; UCLA Prof. Andrea Bertozzi is applying
the powerful tools of mathematics and big data analysis to mapping crime
patterns - with implications for crime prevention.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2013 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                               Canterbury Adscene

                                  May 16, 2013

Computer predictions tell officers where to go

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 203  words


A High-tech predictive software program that  brought down crime rates in the
USA has been taken up by  Kent Police.

Police chiefs have rolled out ground-breaking policing scheme PredPol across the
county after a successful trial in Swale.

It is the only UK force to have introduced "predictive policing" after it was
shown to have reduced crime in parts of the US by up to 17 per cent.

Officers worked closely with the Los Angeles police department to understand the
program, which uses similar technology to that which predicts earthquakes.

Using historic crime data and human behaviour analysis, the system predicts
areas where offences are likely to take place. Officers receive updates from the
system twice a day and then decide where to patrol. Its aim is to  increase
visibility and reduce crime.

Kent Police Chief Constable Ian Learmonth, who has led the implementation of the
scheme, said it analyses data to identify those locations where crime and
antisocial behaviour are most likely to occur.

He said predictive policing   addresses  the root causes of crime and antisocial
behaviour rather than looking solely at the symptoms, and will be used as a
tactical option as part of the force's current policing model.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 264


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Santa Cruz Sentinel (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

AT RISK: Santa Cruz crime among state's highest

BYLINE: Jason Hoppin, Santa Cruz Sentinel, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2624 words


April 07--SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz is one of the most uncommon pockets of the
country, full of natural gifts and a unique culture that have given the funky
seaside town a global reputation.

It also is teeming with thieves.

According to FBI statistics, Santa Cruz's reputation isn't the only outsized
thing about the place. It also has a significant crime problem, with the highest
property crime rate in California among medium and large cities.

But cars, bikes and backpacks aren't the only thing at risk here: Santa Cruz
also has a higher violent crime rate than all but eight cities in the Golden
State. People are more likely to become a victim here than in Los Angeles, San
Francisco or Vallejo, not to mention Central Coast neighbors Salinas and
Watsonville.

"I did not expect this. It's the craziest thing," said Oakland native and
student Zach Rokeach, a UCSC junior studying environmental studies and biology,
as he locked up his bike downtown. "It is surprising to me for Santa Cruz. I
thought it was just a laid-back beach town."

Kristin Onorato, 30, said she was not surprised because she has friends in the
law enforcement community who tell her about the city's crime issues. Onorato,
who suspects drugs and poverty are behind the numbers, does not want Santa Cruz
to become known for crime.

"I don't want to walk around here feeling unsafe. My boyfriend lives in Stockton
and we never just go out for a stroll because Stockton has

that reputation for being unsafe," she said. "I would hate for this little city
to be that same way."

A RUN OF MAYHEM

A spate of high-profile violent crimes have renewed a debate that's ebbed and
flowed in Santa Cruz since at least the 1970s: what to do about almost
shockingly high levels of crime.

Less than a year ago, downtown business owner Shannon Collins was slain by a
mentally ill homeless man as she walked from her hairdresser. In February, a
series of incidents jolted the city: a UCSC student was shot in the head during
a Westside robbery, a man was gunned down outside a downtown bar and, finally,
two officers were ambushed and killed during a routine follow-up to a groping
complaint.

The deaths of detective Sgt. Loran "Butch" Baker and detective Elizabeth Butler
-- the first police officers killed in the line of duty in the city's nearly
150-year history -- are what have given the ongoing debate about public safety
unusual weight. Between the two officers, they left behind five children, and
their March 7 funeral brought thousands of officers and political luminaries to
San Jose's HP Pavilion.

The city's crime problem is nothing new. The 2011 property crime rate -- one
reported incident for every 18 residents -- that tops all California cities is
less than half of what it was 25 years ago, but the number has consistently been
higher than the state's. And since the early 1990s, the city's violent crime
rate has trended higher than the rest of California.

What makes Santa Cruz stand out is how unique it seems among a list of
high-crime cities. It lacks the complexity of Oakland, Stockton or other
high-crime communities with serious poverty issues, places that don't share the
same affluence, property values or age demographics as Santa Cruz.

"These places have been blighted communities for a long, long time, and they
share a lot of common characteristics," said Erik Bovee, a local technology
investor who approached the Sentinel with the FBI stats. "Santa Cruz doesn't
share those."

Bovee said he has brought the numbers to the attention of numerous local
officials, and was frustrated to see them dismissed. A former resident of big
cities on the East Coast and in Europe, Bovee said he does not feel safe in
Santa Cruz.

"It's the most dangerous place that I've lived or worked in," he said.

CRIME FACTORS

Many things affect crimes rates, and criminologists and the FBI caution the
statistics are not an accurate picture of public safety. The figures measure
offenses reported to police, and do not take into account the validity of the
report or crimes that were never brought to police attention.

While the statistics are a snapshot of crime in 2011, Santa Cruz police say they
saw a drop in assaults, burglaries and thefts in 2012. Property crimes are also
on a downward trend, sitting at less than 40 percent of what they were in 1985,
with the 2008 rate being the lowest in the past 25 years.

Police and others say there are several factors that make the city an outlier.
Tourism swells the city's population, particularly on sunny summer weekends.
UCSC brings thousands of youths and young adults to town, away from home for the
first time. And it has a relatively high number of liquor licenses, an ongoing
topic of debate.

"I am convinced that you cannot benchmark Santa Cruz to any other city," Santa
Cruz Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark said. "You can't. We're an anomaly."

But many communities must deal with impacts of the state's $100 billion tourism
industry. And many are no strangers to colleges, with 35 state-run, four-year
and graduate schools across California, 112 community colleges and scores of
private institutions.

The offenses driving both rates upward are thefts and assaults, and countywide
they seem unique to Santa Cruz. Watsonville rates rank 33rd for violent crimes
and 53rd for property crimes among cities with a population of 35,000 and
greater. And if the unincorporated area of the county were a city, it would rank
in the bottom half statewide for both categories.

Rates for the smaller cities of Capitola and Scotts Valley are both far less
than Santa Cruz's.

COMMUNITY OUTCRY

Lately, an increasing number of Santa Cruzans are raising their voices about
crime, with the group Take Back Santa Cruz -- the name implies a city adrift --
emerging as a social and political force during a dark period. Co-founder Pamela
Comstock is among the City Council's newest members.

"The level of criminal activity going on in our town is unacceptable," said
Santa Cruz City Councilman David Terrazas, who chairs the council's public
safety committee. "I'm confident this City Council is taking on this issue and
the community is no longer tolerant of crime that it may have tolerated in the
past."

The debate is not completely new. It dates to at least the 1970s, when a city
consultant famously penned a report on "undesirable transient elements," or UTEs
-- a term later co-opted by protesters to city policies.

"I think it's been, for lack of a better word, sort of a roller-coaster issue,"
said longtime City Councilman Don Lane. "In my time in this community there have
been periods of great concern about crime, and at other times it's less of a
concern.

"This is not a new phenomenon."

But tackling crime in Santa Cruz is a complex task. The very things that give
the city its cultural identity -- not just its famed tolerance, but its vibrant
nightlife and global draw as a tourist destination -- also contribute to the
problem.

"We actually do a lot of work to encourage people to come here to have fun.
That's one of our main industries," Lane said. "But when people are on vacation
they do drink, and they sometimes use drugs. Let's not mince words about this:
This is a town to come and play. But there's a cost to that."

Drugs also often are named as a culprit, particularly methamphetamine and
heroin. A court system seen as lenient is also a frequent target, as is the
county's suite of social service offerings.

'MANIFESTATION OF NEGLECT'

There are ongoing debates about what role the police play in preventing crime.
Some 1990s-era studies concluded that standard approaches -- more officers,
preventive patrols and faster response times -- were basically ineffective,
spurring experimentation in how best to reduce crime. Santa Cruz's predictive
policing model is one example.

But the crime reduction factor that comes up is the role Santa Cruzans
themselves must play.

"Part of that is what have we taught our community and what have we tolerated,"
Clark said, saying the city is reaping what he called "the manifestation of
neglect."

"Santa Cruz is a compassionate place, and it's great. I love that," he said.
"But compassion without accountability is nothing more than enabling. And we are
seeing that play out before our very eyes."

That echoes comments by former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta at the funeral for
Baker and Butler. Speaking of their accused killer and the numerous red flags
that arose before he made his way to Santa Cruz, Panetta said too many people
"looked the other way."

"We live in a society now ... where everybody hangs by their iPhone or their
computer, and there's a lot of turning inward and not enough attention to the
people around you," Panetta said in a later interview with the Sentinel.

Experts say shaking that passiveness is key to preventing crime. From telling
errant teens to knock it off to calling out criminal behavior, UC Irvine
criminologist Charis Kubrin said "informal social controls" are effective
deterrents.

"A community that's vibrant, with residents out and about, that has a lot of
things going on, is much less likely to have crime because these people serve as
the eyes and ears of the community," Kubrin said. "Minding your own business is
not good for the community."

BUSY DEPARTMENT

The Santa Cruz Police Department is not resting on its laurels. In 2011, the
department averaged 11.1 arrests per sworn officer a year, according to FBI
statistics, among the highest in the state and a figure that easily beats larger
cities such as Berkeley, Oakland and San Francisco, each of which averaged fewer
than four per officer. And Santa Cruz averages more arrests than cities such as
Sacramento and San Bernardino, which have similar ratios of police to residents.

Nor is the department understaffed when measured against the population (though
police argue that measure is skewed due to the high number of tourists). There
is one sworn officer for every 697 residents, 22nd in the state. Furthermore,
what resources the department has are on the street -- the ratio of civilian
staff to sworn officers is third-lowest in California.

MANY HOMELESS

Santa Cruz also has a high number of transients, and the killers of both Collins
and officers Baker and Butler were recent transplants to Santa Cruz. The
transient issue is 40 years old, but the debate over it -- Do social services
attract the homeless? Are the homeless responsible for much of the crime? --
rages on.

A staunch supporter of homeless services, Lane says there's no question that
some transients, but not all, contribute to the problem.

"There are people who are kind of making their way through existence by petty
crime," Lane said. "But I think it's important to recognize that's a distinct
subpopulation."

He disputes the belief, closely held by some, that homeless services bring
homeless people to the area.

"I don't think people are choosing to come great distances because the [free]
dinner in Santa Cruz is better than the dinner in Salinas," Lane said.

And Kubrin said you cannot draw a correlation between social services and crime.
In fact, she said they are key to rehabilitation, and should help reduce crime.

"What you will not find is [that] it's causing crime," Kubrin said. "I cannot
think of a study that would show that."

A CITY, ITS POLICE

In a city with an anti-establishment streak, the Santa Cruz Police Department
and residents have sometimes had an uneasy relationship. The department has
cultivated officers who match the community and continues to do so, and is in
the midst of an exhaustive search for new recruits.

"This is a very political community. Maybe a 'politicized' community is a better
word," Lane said. "The Police Department has always been cognizant of dealing
with what the community attitudes are, and it's always kind of wrestling with
that."

After the deaths of Baker and Butler, Supervisor Zach Friend, a former crime
analyst with the Santa Cruz Police Department, called for a "rebirth" in the
relationship between the city and its police.

Friend said he sees the ongoing public safety conversation as growing pains,
with the city having shifted on its axis in the 1970s, from a conservative,
growth-happy area known for fishing to a politically charged, liberal bastion.

"This to me is part of the discussion and growth of a community that really
isn't that old," Friend said.

The responsibility for preventing crimes falls on many shoulders, he said.

"By the time a law enforcement officer knows your child's name, a lot of
elements of society have failed that child. The police are really the parent of
last resort."

Speaking of his former police colleagues, Friend added: "They feel like they're
asked to accomplish an impossible task, often with very limited resources and in
some sections of the community with little support. But it isn't their job to
vocalize that."

MARIJUANA ISSUE

In 2006, Santa Cruz voters passed Measure K, which not only made marijuana a
lesser law enforcement priority but limited the Police Department's ability to
work with the Drug Enforcement Agency on pot cases.

At the time, voter outrage at the DEA over its participation in the infamous
raid on the Wo/Men's Alliance for Medical Marijuana was still high. But Measure
K's practical impact was to limit police cooperation with the DEA on all drug
investigations, including going after top-level suppliers, Clark said.

"The fact that Santa Cruz has such a large drug problem and gives away twice as
many needles than all of Santa Clara County transcends anything the Police
Department or City Council can control," Clark said.

Cutting off the supply might help change the city's drug-friendly reputation.
But cutting off demand and getting more people into treatment would make that
easier, and could lead to declines in drug-related property crimes.

"Addiction is a disease that needs treatment and that can really be seen when we
see a transformation in people and get them back to a place where they are
stable and back with families and working," said Carolyn Coleman, executive
director of Santa Cruz Community Counseling Center and an appointee to Mayor
Hilary Bryant's new task force on public safety. "We think all these services
are geared toward public safety."

WHAT'S NEXT

The City Council is taking up the crime issue this week, and adding to the
fabric of community concerns is a state prisoner shift that some feared would
mean more crooks roaming the streets. Oakland, which has by far the highest
violent crime rate in the state, recently hired former New York City top cop
Bill Bratton, the godfather of zero tolerance-style policing, as a consultant.

But the hammer of the criminal justice system is not the only way to fix a crime
problem. Kubrin said there's no evidence yet that the prison realignment has led
to an uptick in crime. And locking people up isn't the answer, she added.

"Overreliance on incarceration is very problematic in California," Kubrin said.
"You cannot incarcerate your way out of a crime problem. There are diminishing
returns after awhile."

Ultimately, Clark said, crime isn't about numbers at all, but a sense of place.
With so many factors at play, it comes down to whether people feel secure in the
place where they live.

"How good do you feel about where you live and what you do? Not just Santa Cruz,
but there are a lot of communities at a crossroads about this," Clark said. "My
whole time that I've been here, Santa Cruz has always found a way to figure it
out and move forward."

Reporter J.M. Brown contributed to this report. Follow Sentinel reporter Jason
Hoppin on Twitter at Twitter.com/scnewsdude

___ (c)2013 the Santa Cruz Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) Visit the Santa Cruz
Sentinel (Scotts Valley, Calif.) at www.santacruzsentinel.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130407-QC-AT-RISK-Santa-Cruz-crime-among-state-s-highest-0407-20130407

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QC


                       Copyright 2013 Santa Cruz Sentinel


                               18 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Glendale News-Press (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 13, 2013 Friday

Glendale police induct first-ever female commander, new deputy chief

BYLINE: Veronica Rocha, Glendale News-Press, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 721 words


Sept. 13--Top management positions in the Glendale Police Department are
changing, starting with the promotion of a longtime captain and the induction of
the department's first-ever female commander.

Carl Povilaitis, a 22-year Glendale police veteran, was promoted Wednesday from
captain to deputy chief and Theresa Goldman, 49, moved up from her position as
the dispatch center administrator to become the department's commander of the
Administrative Services Division.

"These are very important positions in our leadership chain of command and it's
important that we selected the right individuals to fulfill these roles," Police
Chief Ron De Pompa said.

Povilaitis, 47, who is a longtime Glendale resident, started his career in law
enforcement with the Glendale Police Department, where he has spearheaded major
projects including the development of command areas, predictive policing and
real-time crime analysis.

As the new deputy chief, Povilaitis will continue to oversee his current duties
in the investigation division as well as manage all day-to-day operations of the
department.

"This is a can-do organization," he said. "Everybody in this organization works
so hard. It's not what can't we do or why can't we do it, it's how can we get it
done."

His new role will let De Pompa focus more on administrative duties, working with
the legal team as well as actively interacting with the community, according to
Police Sgt. Tom Lorenz.

"This is a very special position, at least in my eyes, because he will truly be
my right-hand man," De Pompa said. "But truth be known, Carl has kind of been my
right-hand man throughout my tenure as chief."

Stepping in to oversee organizational duties, Goldman, a non-sworn police
employee, will use her experience to supervise fleet services as well as
communications, the jail, records, budget and evidence rooms.

She will also represent the city on the governance board for the Interagency
Communications Interoperability System, which delivers interoperable radio
communication to the Los Angeles region.

"I look forward to the challenges," Goldman said. "I am learning a great deal
about the different bureaus here. I like what I see. I like the work that is
being done and I look forward to bringing it to the next level."

The idea of allowing a non-sworn employee to oversee a great amount of the
department's operations wasn't immediately welcomed by some city officials,
especially after they learned the staffer would have command over certain police
functions.

The position, which is supposed to save the city $75,000 annually, is on the
same tier as a captain, which means Goldman will be allowed to act as police
chief in the absence of De Pompa during an emergency.

However, she would act as a policy marker, just as the police chief would, and
she would not be in command at any scene during an emergency, Lorenz said,
adding that tactical commanders would cover those responsibilities.

Goldman said she is confident in making decisions and consulting others when
it's needed as well as deferring to sworn officials.

"I know what they do, but I don't do what they do," she said.

Still, Goldman has logged more than 30 years in law enforcement, starting at the
Burbank Police Department and then with Beverly Hills police, where she
developed knowledge of handling dispatch duties and technology projects.

Officials said her move to the command tier may open the way for other
professional staffers to move up in the department.

The latest promotions are part of De Pompa's extensive changes, including the
creation of two pools of generalist detectives, this year in the police
department.

De Pompa announced his retirement in February and city officials opened an
extensive search for his replacement.

He continues to work on an hourly basis until a new chief is selected. Last
month, 43 candidates turned in applications or were recruited for the
department's top position.

Capt. Todd Stokes will continue to manage operations for the Field Services
Division, while Capt. Mike Rock will supervise the Support Services Division,
which includes internal affairs, crime analysis and the air support and traffic
bureau.

___ (c)2013 the Glendale News-Press (Glendale, Calif.) Visit the Glendale
News-Press (Glendale, Calif.) at www.glendalenewspress.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130913-1GL-Glendale-police-induct-first-ever-female-commander-new-deputy-chief
-0913-20130913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1GL


                       Copyright 2013 Glendale News-Press


                               19 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

Reading taps new technology to predict and prevent crime

BYLINE: Don Spatz, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 439 words


Oct. 18--It won't replace city police officers' intuition. It's several
techno-steps beyond the crime-mapping Reading has been doing for 30 years. It's
not criminal profiling.

And it's not psychic.

But PredPol claims its software technology can tell police when and where the
next crimes are likely to occur, within a few blocks.

"We are always seeking ways to improve our ability to fight crime in our city --
in this case, preventing it before it happens," Mayor Vaughn D. Spencer said at
a press conference Thursday. "This technology is a force multiplier."

PredPol was developed by a California firm and is used by several West Coast
cities.

Its two test cities -- Los Angeles and Santa Cruz, Cal. -- saw 12 to 25 percent
drops in burglaries and auto thefts in the first six months of use.

Reading, the first Northeastern city to use it, has been working with it for a
month to reduce property crimes.

Police Chief William M. Heim said officers discovered a car theft and a burglary
in progress while patrolling areas where crime was predicted to occur.

Those may or may not be attributable to PredPol, he said, but the city has a
two-year contract and should know by then how well it works,

The city paid $38,500 from a federal grant for the setup and two years of use.

"We had a pretty robust crime-mapping capability to establish the hot spots and
let police officers know where to take proactive measures," Heim said. "It
worked really well, and we thought we were on the cutting edge."

Then came high-tech predictive policing, with a growing number of providers in
the industry, such as PredPol.

So how does it work?

Algorithms.

Those essentially are hugely complex math formulas that combine data of past
crimes with known patterns of criminal behavior to predict where the next one
will occur.

The city fed 10 years of crime data into the PredPol system and now updates it
twice a day.

In return, it gets a map, sprinkled with 500- by 500-foot squares showing where
and when the next crime might occur.

Police move into that area, patrolling, talking with people, perhaps not full
time but to establish a greater presence.

You can't count a crime that didn't occur as a measure of the system's success,
but Heim said he'll be happy if there's a 20 percent drop in burglaries in areas
that PredPol pinpointed and police took proactive measures.

There's no replacement for good police work, he said.

"But this is quite an enhancement," he added.

Contact Don Spatz: 610-371-5027 or dspatz@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2013 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20131018-RE-Reading-taps-new-technology-to-predict-and-prevent-crime-1018-201310
18

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2013 Reading Eagle


                               20 of 29 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                                August 16, 2013

LA law proves a success in Kent

LENGTH: 455  words


by James Snaith

jsnaith@thekmgroup.co.uk

@KM_newsroom

A tactical Los Angeles-style of policing - which predicts crime before it
happens - has seen street violence in north Kent slashed by 6% and is now being
introduced across the county.

Sounding more like something out of a Hollywood blockbuster than traditional
crime-fighting, the idea originated in the Californian city.

It has now been adopted by police here as a way of cutting anti-social
behaviour, drug dealing and street violence.

PredPol uses software which reads the latest science, maths and human behaviour
data to show the county's top hotspot areas affected by crime.

Officers are then sent to patrol targeted high-risk zones - sometimes as small
as half the size of a football pitch - with the aim of tackling crime before it
happens.

Mark Johnson, Kent Police's head of analysis said: "Every day the system is fed
new crime data, which is updated to produce new zones officers will target each
day.

"It won't change the way policing is done but it will predict crime in high-risk
areas across the county in a targeted way so it helps us police more
effectively.

"We've had an intelligence-led approach to crime in Kent for the last 25 years.
This new system does not replace that, but will enhance it."

A recent three-month pilot in north Kent saw levels of street violence fall by
6% when predictive policing was introduced.

Chief Constable Ian Learmonth said he was pleased with the results so far and is
confident it will work across the county.

He said: "Instead of just doing a random patrol, the data tells us to go to a
zone which is known to have recent levels of crime."

It means more of a police presence in areas that have some of the highest levels
of criminality.

Mr Learmonth said: "The officers have enjoyed it because it takes them back to
the policing style some joined to do.

"Officers are out, visible, doing foot patrols, engaging with the community,
talking with the residents and they are dealing with the crimes they see as an
added bonus. The public want to see visible policing on the streets. This allows
us to do that."

The idea is backed by the county's police commissioner Ann Barnes, who gave the
green light to the innovative project when she was chairman of the police
authority last year.

She accepted that if crime levels are to continue to fall in Kent more targeted
policing would need to happen as cuts to the force by the coalition government
continue.

She said: "When you have nearly 500 officers fewer on the streets you have to
put your officers where they will be best used and the most effective.

"It's just ordinary policing but this targeted system will give a better chance
of our officers stopping crimes taking place before they happen."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 29 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Weeklies

                           January 24, 2013 Thursday

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 514 words


Predicting the future is standard practice for weather forecasters, economists,
think tanks and business.

Now the police are finding their own way of mapping crime before it even happens
- reminiscent of Tom Cruise film, Minority Report.



The software, PredPol - which stands for predictive policing - has been brought
to north Kent from California for its first UK trials.

In Santa Cruz and Los Angeles, where the software was first tested in 2011,
crime dropped by 27 per cent and 12 per cent respectively in the first six
months.

It began as an academic project seven years ago involving mathematicians, social
scientists and an anthropology professor whose goal was to understand how crime
hotspots occur.

They found that by using a mathematical algorithm similar to one for predicting
earthquake aftershocks they could create predict where crimes would happen.

Speaking to The Reporter from Santa Cruz, Jeff Brantingham, anthropology
professor at the University of California, explains: "When there is an
earthquake you see a lot about how it produces aftershocks. In general they
occur near in time and place to a main shock. Crime is very much the same. When
a burglar breaks into a house it makes the chance of crime occurring close by
much more likely."

The PredPol software maps years of past crime data and is updated daily with the
location, time and type of crime committed.

From this it creates prediction boxes of precise 500 sq ft zones which are
listed in priority order as to where crimes are most likely to occur, which is
then delivered to the smart phones, tablets and PCs of police officers.

Brantingham explains the technology is more sophisticated than just highlighting
an area around a recent crime.

"If you were to look at the last seven days of crime you could see a pattern but
you can't put seven years of offences on one map. PredPol has the advantage of
analysing everything that has happened in those years and can select the crimes
likely to produce new offences," he says.

One problem raised is the ambiguity over whether police could stop and search
someone in a location flagged up by PredPol, but Brantingham stresses: "This
isn't Minority Report. That's about producing who, this is about where and
when."

Last week, Ch Insp Philip Painter, of Kent Police Gravesham division, introduced
the technology to councillors at a crime disorder meeting.

They were sceptical -- one worried that it would leave rural areas without
police cover, another was concerned it would mean job cuts.

However Ch Insp insisted rural areas do still have crime hot spots and would be
patrolled and that the technology would not lead to any cuts.

Kent Police were impressed by the drop in offences in California and invested
£125,000 into a trial across north Kent which will, if successful, go
county-wide.

Ch Insp Painter remembers patrolling Gravesend's Dickens Estate 15 years ago and
using pin maps to understand crime dynamics.

He is optimistic:  "PredPol is easy to use and easy to brief.

"It is unrealistic putting an officer on every corner. We have to be more
sophisticated."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KTM


                    Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

Alhambra Police Department first in nation to use Weibo, the Chinese Twitter

BYLINE: Zen Vuong

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 705 words


ALHAMBRA >> The Alhambra Police Department on Monday became the first U.S. law
enforcement agency to create a Weibo, or Chinese-language, Twitter account, a
spokesman said.

Weibo, a microblogging website, is one of the most popular social media tools in
China; Facebook and Twitter are blocked in mainland China.

Police Chief Mark Yokoyama said the multilingual project, which was conceived
about two months ago, will be the first time the Alhambra Police Department
releases official information in a language other than English.

As a part of our long-term strategy, we know that the population of Asian
immigrants to the United States is continuing to rise, and we know that s going
to continue in the San Gabriel Valley, and we know that s going to continue here
in Alhambra as well,  Yokoyama said.  And we also know that the population is
going to be younger, and with that younger population they re going to be using
social media such as Weibo.

About 53 percent of the residents in Alhambra are Asian, according to the 2010
U.S. Census. Of the city s 57,300 residents, about 30,000 are Chinese, Yokoyama
said.

The launch ofweibo.com/alhambrapolice arrived about 11 months after the Alhambra
Police Department started a Facebook account. Thefan page has about 1,600
likes.

Yokoyama said he is not sure how Weibo will affect his agency s ability to solve
crimes because the Alhambra Police Department doesn t keep an inventory of the
ethnic background of witnesses.

But the point of the Chinese social media website is to keep residents informed,
help community engagement and encourage people who might not otherwise speak to
the police to turn in tips, Yokoyama said.

Thanks to the Facebook fan page, a handful of crimes have been solved or avoided
since January, Yokoyama added.

In 2010 researchers at the USC Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism
surveyed Chinese, Latino and white Alhambra residents. Chinese residents scored
lowest when it came to feeling a sense of neighborhood belonging, collective
efficacy and civic participation.

Yokoyama said he has been working to make the Police Department more progressive
since he started in June 2011.

In January Alhambra became the first citywide agency to use Predictive Policing
orPredPol , a cloud-based software program that forecasts crime zones. After
four months, Yokoyama said residential theft decreased by 11 percent, car
burglaries by 20 and grand theft auto by 10.

Weibo is a  critical component of outreach to the Chinese community  and is a
way for the agency to increase trust, community and overall civic engagement,
Yokoyama said.

There is a segment of the population that really doesn t want to call the
police, but they feel comfortable sending a message,  he said.

The Alhambra Police Department is working on 9-1-1 texting. A beta version
should be released in about eight months, and a functional version should be out
next year, Yokoyama said.

The Alhambra Police Department partnered with Alhambra Source, a community news
website, after reading one of its articles about how to engage the Chinese
community.

Mayor Stephen Sham, a longtime Chinese advocate, was also involved in the
project.

Many of the Chinese community here, they re first generation or fresh
immigrants,  Sham said.  They re more concerned about their life, so we need to
provide a safe, comfortable community for them to live. Chinese immigrants go to
Chinese media, but (the Chinese media) can t report about our city every day. We
hope that through this, it ll allow them to be more comfortable to engage with
the police department.

About 90 percent of the agency s Weibo website will be a carbon copy of the city
s Facebook page, Yokoyama said. But the social media website will also address
concerns that are specific to the local and international Chinese community,
such as visa issues, he said.

While about 15 officers, including Yokoyama, update the Facebook fan page around
the clock. Weibo initially will have one page manager, Walter Yu, a volunteer
community outreach organizer.

The Police Department is looking for volunteers to help it deliver
department-approved messages.

Anyone who wants to join the Weibo conversation could use #WenMeiGuoJingCha
(#AskAmericanPolice).

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

Alhambra Police Department first in nation to use Weibo, the Chinese Twitter

BYLINE: Zen Vuong

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 705 words


ALHAMBRA >> The Alhambra Police Department on Monday became the first U.S. law
enforcement agency to create a Weibo, or Chinese-language, Twitter account, a
spokesman said.

Weibo, a microblogging website, is one of the most popular social media tools in
China; Facebook and Twitter are blocked in mainland China.

Police Chief Mark Yokoyama said the multilingual project, which was conceived
about two months ago, will be the first time the Alhambra Police Department
releases official information in a language other than English.

As a part of our long-term strategy, we know that the population of Asian
immigrants to the United States is continuing to rise, and we know that s going
to continue in the San Gabriel Valley, and we know that s going to continue here
in Alhambra as well,  Yokoyama said.  And we also know that the population is
going to be younger, and with that younger population they re going to be using
social media such as Weibo.

About 53 percent of the residents in Alhambra are Asian, according to the 2010
U.S. Census. Of the city s 57,300 residents, about 30,000 are Chinese, Yokoyama
said.

The launch ofweibo.com/alhambrapolice arrived about 11 months after the Alhambra
Police Department started a Facebook account. Thefan page has about 1,600
likes.

Yokoyama said he is not sure how Weibo will affect his agency s ability to solve
crimes because the Alhambra Police Department doesn t keep an inventory of the
ethnic background of witnesses.

But the point of the Chinese social media website is to keep residents informed,
help community engagement and encourage people who might not otherwise speak to
the police to turn in tips, Yokoyama said.

Thanks to the Facebook fan page, a handful of crimes have been solved or avoided
since January, Yokoyama added.

In 2010 researchers at the USC Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism
surveyed Chinese, Latino and white Alhambra residents. Chinese residents scored
lowest when it came to feeling a sense of neighborhood belonging, collective
efficacy and civic participation.

Yokoyama said he has been working to make the Police Department more progressive
since he started in June 2011.

In January Alhambra became the first citywide agency to use Predictive Policing
orPredPol , a cloud-based software program that forecasts crime zones. After
four months, Yokoyama said residential theft decreased by 11 percent, car
burglaries by 20 and grand theft auto by 10.

Weibo is a  critical component of outreach to the Chinese community  and is a
way for the agency to increase trust, community and overall civic engagement,
Yokoyama said.

There is a segment of the population that really doesn t want to call the
police, but they feel comfortable sending a message,  he said.

The Alhambra Police Department is working on 9-1-1 texting. A beta version
should be released in about eight months, and a functional version should be out
next year, Yokoyama said.

The Alhambra Police Department partnered with Alhambra Source, a community news
website, after reading one of its articles about how to engage the Chinese
community.

Mayor Stephen Sham, a longtime Chinese advocate, was also involved in the
project.

Many of the Chinese community here, they re first generation or fresh
immigrants,  Sham said.  They re more concerned about their life, so we need to
provide a safe, comfortable community for them to live. Chinese immigrants go to
Chinese media, but (the Chinese media) can t report about our city every day. We
hope that through this, it ll allow them to be more comfortable to engage with
the police department.

About 90 percent of the agency s Weibo website will be a carbon copy of the city
s Facebook page, Yokoyama said. But the social media website will also address
concerns that are specific to the local and international Chinese community,
such as visa issues, he said.

While about 15 officers, including Yokoyama, update the Facebook fan page around
the clock. Weibo initially will have one page manager, Walter Yu, a volunteer
community outreach organizer.

The Police Department is looking for volunteers to help it deliver
department-approved messages.

Anyone who wants to join the Weibo conversation could use #WenMeiGuoJingCha
(#AskAmericanPolice).

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday

The new age of algorithms: How it affects the way we live;
'Big Data' impacts how we work, elect our presidents, and play tennis. It also
affects the way we're watched.

BYLINE: Robert A. Lehrman Correspondent

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 4061 words


They work a few hundred yards from one of the Library of Congress's most prized
possessions: a vellum copy of the Bible printed in 1455 by Johann Gutenberg,
inventor of movable type. But almost six centuries later, Jane Mandelbaum and
Thomas Youkel have a task that would confound Gutenberg.

The researchers are leading a team that is archiving almost every tweet sent out
since Twitter began in 2006. A half-billion tweets stream into library computers
each day.

Their question: How can they store the tweets so they become a meaningful tool
for researchers - a sort of digital transcript providing insights into the daily
flow of history?

Thousands of miles away, Arnold Lund has a different task. Mr. Lund manages a
lab for General Electric, a company that still displays the desk of its founder,
Thomas Edison, at its research headquarters in Niskayuna, N.Y. But even Edison
might need training before he'd grasp all the dimensions of one of Lund's
projects. Lund's question:

How can power companies harness the power of data to predict which trees will
fall on power lines during a storm - thus allowing them to prevent blackouts
before they happen?

The work of Richard Rothman, a professor at Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore, is more fundamental: to save lives. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta predicts flu outbreaks, once it examines reports
from hospitals. That takes weeks. In 2009, a study seemed to suggest researchers
could predict outbreaks much faster by analyzing millions of Google searches.

Spikes in queries like "My kid is sick" signaled a flu outbreak before the CDC
knew there would be one. That posed a new question for Dr. Rothman and his
colleague Andrea Dugas:

Could Google help predict influenza outbreaks in time to allow hospitals like
the one at Johns Hopkins to get ready?

They ask different questions. But all five of these researchers form part of the
new world of Big Data - a phenomenon that may, for better or worse,
revolutionize every facet of life, culture, and, well, even the planet. From
curbing urban crime to calculating the effectiveness of a tennis player's
backhand, people are now gathering and analyzing vast amounts of data to predict
human behaviors, solve problems, identify shopping habits, thwart terrorists -
everything but foretell which Hollywood scripts might make blockbusters.
Actually, there's a company poring through numbers to do that, too.

Just four years ago, someone wanted to do a Wikipedia entry on Big Data.
Wikipedia said no; there was nothing special about the term - it just combined
two common words. Today, Big Data seems everywhere, ushering in what advocates
consider some of the biggest changes since Euclid.

Want to get elected to public office? Put a bunch of computer geeks in a room
and have them comb through databases to glean who might vote for you - then
target them with micro-tailored messages, as President Obama famously did in
2012.

Want to solve poverty in Africa? Analyze text messages and social media networks
to detect early signs of joblessness, epidemics, and other problems, as the
United Nations is trying to do.

Eager to find the right mate? Use algorithms to analyze an infinite number of
personality traits to determine who's the best match for you, as many online
dating sites now do.

What exactly is Big Data? What makes it new? Different? What's the downside?

Such questions have evoked intense interest, especially since June 5. On that
day, former National Security Agency analyst Edward Snowden revealed that, like
Ms. Mandelbaum or Rothman, the NSA had also asked a question:

Can we find terrorists using Big Data - like the phone records of hundreds of
millions of ordinary Americans? Could we get those records from, say, Verizon?

Mr. Snowden's disclosures revealed that PRISM, the program the NSA devised,
secretly monitors calls, Web searches, and e-mails, in the United States and
other countries.

The dark side of Big Data involves much more than Snowden's disclosure, or what
the US does. And what made Big Data possible did not happen overnight. The term
has been around for at least 15 years, though it's only recently become popular.

"It will be quite transformational," says Thomas Davenport, an information
technology expert at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., who co-wrote the widely
used book "Competing on Analytics: The New Science of Winning."

What exactly will it transform? To find out, let's go back to the beginning.

*     *     *

Big Data starts with ... a lot of data. Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt
has said that we now uncover as much data in 48 hours - 1.8 zettabytes (that's
1,800,000,000,000,000,000,000 bytes) - as humans gathered from "the dawn of
civilization to the year 2003."

You read that right. The head of a company receiving 50 billion search requests
a day believes people now gather in a few days more data than humans have done
throughout almost all of history.

Mr. Schmidt's claim has doubters. But similar assertions crop up from people not
prone to exaggeration, such as Massachusetts Institute of Technology researcher
Andrew McAfee and MIT professor Erik Brynjolfsson, authors of the new book "Race
Against the Machine."

"More data crosses the Internet every second," they write, "than were stored in
the entire Internet 20 years ago."

A key driver of the growth of data is the way we've digitized many of our
everyday activities, such as shopping (increasingly done online) or downloading
music. Another factor: our dependence on electronic devices, all of which leave
digital footprints every time we send an e-mail, search online, post a message,
text, or tweet.

Virtually every institution in society, from government to the local utility, is
churning out its own torrent of electronic digits - about our billing records,
our employment, our electricity use. Add in the huge array of sensors that now
exist, measuring everything from traffic flow to the spoilage of fruit during
shipment, and the world is awash in information that we had no way to uncover
before - all aggregated and analyzed by increasingly powerful computers.

Most of this data doesn't affect us. Amassing information alone doesn't mean
it's valuable. Yet the new ability to mine the right information, discover
patterns and relationships, already affects our everyday lives.

Anyone, for instance, who has a navigation screen on a car dashboard uses data
streaming from 24 satellites 11,000 miles above Earth to pinpoint his or her
exact location. People living in Los Angeles and dozens of other cities now
participate, knowingly or not, in the growing phenomenon of "predictive policing
" - authorities' use of algorithms to identify crime trends. Tennis fans use IBM
SlamTracker, an online analytic tool, to find out exactly how many return of
serves Andy Murray needed to win Wimbledon.

When we use sites like SlamTracker, companies take note of our browsing habits
and, through either the miracle or the meddling of Big Data, use that
information to send us personal pitches. That's what happens when AOL greets you
with a pop-up ad (Slazenger tennis balls - 70 percent off!).

In their book, "Big Data: A Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work,
and Think," Kenneth Cukier and Viktor Mayer-Schönberger mention Wal-Mart's
discovery, gleaned by mining sales data, that people preparing for a hurricane
bought lots of Pop-Tarts. Now, when a storm is on the way, Wal-Mart puts
Pop-Tarts on the shelves next to the flashlights.

But what excites and concerns people about Big Data is more far-reaching than
that. One way of seeing the bigger picture: taking a closer look at some of the
people in the digital trenches.

*     *     *

I follow Mandelbaum and Mr. Youkel down a corridor of the Library of Congress,
past exhibits redolent of history and what you might expect from what we call
"America's library," with its 38 million books on 838 miles of shelving.

They open a door. We pass behind people staring at huge computer screens and
enter a room that doesn't look as if it belongs in a library at all. It's the
size of a gym, with fluorescent lights overhead and tall metal boxes rising from
the floor.

"The tweets come here," Mandelbaum says.

It's been three years since Twitter approached the library with a question. What
the online networking service started in 2006 had become a new way of
communicating. Would there, Twitter asked, be historical value in archiving
tweets?

"We saw the value right away," says Robert Dizard, deputy director of the
library. "[Our] mission is, preserve the record of America."

Certainly the record of what millions of Americans say, think, and feel each day
would be a treasure-trove for historians. But was the technology feasible, and -
important for a federal agency - cost-effective to handle the three V's that
form the fingerprint of a Big Data project - volume, velocity, and variety?

The library said yes. But the task is daunting.

Volume? It will archive 172 billion tweets in 2013 alone, about 300 each from
the world's 500 million-plus tweeters.

Velocity? That means absorbing more than 20 million tweets an hour, 24 hours a
day, seven days a week, each stored in a way that can last.

Variety? There are tweets from a woman who may run for president in 2016 - and
from Lady Gaga. And they're different in other ways.

"Sure, a tweet is 140 characters," says Jim Gallagher, the library's director of
strategic initiatives. "But there are 50 fields. We need to record who wrote it.
Where. When."

Because many tweets seem banal, the project has inspired ridicule. When the
library posted its announcement of the project, one reader wrote in the comments
box: "I'm guessing a good chunk ... came from the Kardashians."

But isn't banality the point? Historians want to know not just what happened in
the past but how people lived. It is why they rejoice in finding a semiliterate
diary kept by a Confederate soldier, or pottery fragments in a colonial town.

It's as if a historian today writing about Lincoln could listen in on what
millions of Americans were saying on the day he was shot.

Youkel and Mandelbaum might seem like an odd couple to carry out a Big Data
project: One is a career Library of Congress researcher with an undergraduate
degree in history, the other a geologist who worked for years with oil
companies. But they demonstrate something Babson's Mr. Davenport has written
about the emerging field of analytics: "hybrid specialization."

For organizations to use the new technology well, traditional skills, like
computer science, aren't enough. Davenport points out that just as Big Data
combines many innovations, finding meaning in the world's welter of statistics
means combining many different disciplines.

Mandelbaum and Youkel pool their knowledge to figure out how to archive the
tweets, how researchers can find what they want, and how to train librarians to
guide them. Even before opening tweets to the public, the library has gotten
more than 400 requests from doctoral candidates, professors, and journalists.

"This is a pioneering project," Mr. Dizard says. "It's helping us begin to
handle large digital data."

For "America's library," at this moment, that means housing a Gutenberg Bible
and Lady Gaga tweets. What will it mean in 50 years? I ask Dizard.

He laughs - and demurs. "I wouldn't look that far ahead."

*     *     *

Arnold Lund is looking ahead. Lund has a Ph.D. in experimental psychology. He
holds 20 patents, has written a book on managing technology design, and directs
a variety of projects for General Electric.

Last year, a tree fell on power lines behind my house. As the local utility
repaired things, an electrical surge crashed my computer, destroying all the
contents. Lund's power line project has my attention.

"For power companies, one of the largest expenses is managing foliage," he says.
"We lay out the entire geography of a state - and the overlay of the power grid.
We use satellite data to look at tree growth and cut back where there's most
growth. Then [we] predict where the most likely [problem] is. We have 50
different variabilities to see the probability of outage."

In that one compressed paragraph, I see three big changes Mr. Cukier and Mr.
Mayer-Shönberger say Big Data brings to research. It's what we might call the
three "nots."

Size, not sample. For more than a century, they point out, statisticians have
relied on small samples of data from which to generalize. They had to. They
lacked the ability to collect more. The new technology means we can "collect a
lot of data rather than settle for ... samples."

Messy, not meticulous. Traditionally, researchers have insisted on "clean,
curated data. When there was not that much data around, researchers [had to be
as] exact as possible." Now, that's no longer necessary. "Accept messiness,"
they write, arguing that the benefits of more data outweigh our "obsession with
precision."

Correlation, not cause. While knowing the causes behind things is desirable, we
don't always need to understand how the world works "to get things done," they
note.

Lund's lab exemplifies all three. First, his "entire geography" and 50 variables
involve massive sets of data - information streaming in from sensors,
satellites, and other sources about everything from forest density to prevailing
wind direction to grid loads. Second, he looks for "probability" not "obsessive
precision."

Correlation? Lund values cause, but the reason behind, say, tree growth
interests him less than spotting correlations that might spur action. "Ah - that
tree," he exclaims, as if he is an engineer in the field. "Better get the trucks
out ahead of the storm!"

Cukier and Mayer-Schönberger cite the United Parcel Service to bolster their
argument about correlation. UPS equips its trucks with sensors that identify
vibrations and other things associated with breakdowns. "The data do not tell
UPS why the part is in trouble. They reveal enough for the company to know what
to do."

Lund's boss, GE chief executive officer Jeff Immelt, also talks about sensor
data. The company is now investing $1 billion in software and analytics, which
includes putting sensors on its jet engines to help enhance fuel efficiency. Mr.
Immelt has said that just a 1 percent change in "fuel burn" can be worth
hundreds of millions of dollars to an airline.

"You save an oil guy 1 percent," Immelt said at a conference this spring,
"you're his friend for life."

While Lund has talked glowingly about how much data his projects can collect, he
wants to make sure I know data isn't everything. "As a scientist," he says, "I
know the biggest challenge is finding the right questions. How do you find the
questions important to business, society, and culture?"

*     *     *

Rothman has questions, too. "We work in emergency rooms," he says about himself
and Dr. Dugas. "We're the boots on the ground."

Rothman's work has involved emergency medicine and the nexus between public
health and epidemics, including influenza, which kills as many as 500,000 people
a year around the world and about 45,000 in the US.

The two researchers wanted to find out if the Google national study held lessons
for Baltimore and their emergency room (ER). They studied Google queries for the
Baltimore area - queries about flu symptoms, or chest congestion, or where to
buy a thermometer. If they could spot spikes, that might help solve one crucial
problem.

"Crowding," Dugas says. "Huge issue."

When epidemics start, people rush to hospitals. Waiting rooms fill up. "The
sheer volume of people means decreased care, errors, mortality," she says.

If Google trends showed a spike just as epidemics started, ERs could staff up
and reserve more space for the surge of patients. The link between Google spikes
and hospital visits in Baltimore turned out to be strong, especially for
children. As soon as the first news reports surfaced about the 2009 H1N1 virus,
pediatric ER visits at Hopkins increased - at the peak by as much as 75 percent.

But when the two researchers looked closer, they found something unexpected. No
flu. It turned out that news reports about H1N1 elsewhere fueled a rush to ERs
in Baltimore - what one researcher called "fear week."

"If you just looked at correlation for flu, you'd say it was a false trend,"
says Dugas.

Even so, she and Rothman found the data important for ERs: No matter why people
are coming in the door, they need to staff up. The Baltimore study also showed
the importance of finding out what was behind all those medically related Google
searches - in other words, not just correlation but cause.

Like GE's Lund, Rothman emphasizes the value of "the questions you're asking."

*     *     *

Evidence that Big Data promises enormous benefits is more than anecdotal. MIT's
Mr. Brynjolfsson did a study in 2012 examining 179 companies. He found those
whose decisions were "data-driven" had become 5 to 6 percent more productive in
ways only the use of data could explain.

On the other hand, consider just this one data point: If you type "Big Data Dark
Side" into Google, you'll get 40 million results. Despite the potential, there's
also peril.

The dark side of Big Data concerns Laura DeNardis, Internet scholar, author of
three books, and professor at American University's school of communication in
Washington. She and others worry - not exclusively - about three questions. Does
the new technology (1) erode privacy, (2) promote inequality, and (3) turn
government into Big Brother?

She points to public health data as one potential source of abuse. Her concern
echoes that of critics who fear that supposedly anonymous patient records are
not anonymous at all. As far back as the 1990s, a Massachusetts state commission
gave researchers health data about state workers, believing this would help
officials make better health-care decisions. William Weld, then governor of
Massachusetts, assured workers their files had been scrubbed of the data that
could identify them.

One Harvard University computer science graduate student took this promise of
privacy as a challenge. Using just three bits of data, Latanya Sweeney showed
how to identify everyone - including Weld, whose diagnoses, medications, and
entire medical history Ms. Sweeney, now a professor at Harvard, gleefully sent
to his office.

Today there are far more powerful ways to identify people from records supposed
to keep things private. And there are concerns other than our health records.
Dr. DeNardis worries about how much companies know about our social media
habits.

"Take a look at the published privacy policies of Apple, Facebook, or Google,"
she says. "They know what you view, when you make a call, where you are. People
consent to that by selecting 'I agree' to privacy terms. But how carefully are
they read?"

She's not alone. Jay Stanley of the American Civil Liberties Union describes one
example of what companies can do with what they know about us: "credit-scoring."

"Credit card companies," he wrote in a blog, "sometimes lower a customer's
credit card limit based on the repayment history of other customers at stores
where a person shops."

Do we want Master Card to lower our credit-card limits, thinking we're a risk,
just because people who frequent the stores we do don't pay their bills?

In addition to individual privacy, critics worry about Big Data's impact in more
expansive ways, such as the growing gap between rich and poor nations. Large
American companies can hire hundreds of data analysts. How can Bangladesh
compete? Will this aggravate the global digital divide?

Perhaps most worrisome to people at the moment is the government's use of Big
Data to monitor its own citizens, or others, in the name of national security.
"The American people," President Obama said a few days after the NSA story
broke, "don't have a Big Brother who is snooping into their business."

Did Obama mean George Orwell's term doesn't include governments secretly
monitoring calls, e-mails, audio, and video of citizens suspected of nothing?
Commandeering information from firms like Yahoo and Google?

The questions that arose from Snowden's revelations in June encompass issues of
privacy, confidentiality, freedom, and, of course, security. The Obama
administration argues that monitoring personal information keeps the country
safe, asserting that PRISM has helped foil 54 separate terrorist plots against
the US.

Some lawmakers on Capitol Hill dispute that number, though, and in recent weeks
momentum has been building in Washington to rein in the NSA. Not only has
support increased on the left and right to adopt more oversight of its
surveillance program, polls show a hardening of public opinion about snooping,
too.

Meanwhile, there is no doubt about the fury in other countries when the news
broke - especially in Germany, where critics have compared American monitoring
of foreigners' phone calls and e-mails with that of Stasi, the former hated East
German secret police.

In fact, some of those most upset about the NSA revelations include Americans
alarmed about what the new technology means outside US borders. Suzanne Nossel,
head of the PEN American Center, which works to free writers and artists around
the world imprisoned for free speech, worries about the government use of data
from private companies to stifle dissent.

"It's not new," she says, citing the Chinese dissident Shi Tao, imprisoned by
China in 2004 for posting political commentary on foreign websites, and still
locked up. "Yahoo China had assisted the Chinese government. They used [Yahoo
data] to convict him."

But then Ms. Nossel talks about the recent unrest in Turkey, where the Turkish
military shot and arrested dozens of protesters in Istanbul's Taksim Square. To
find more of what they called "looters," the Turkish government went to Twitter
and Facebook for help - and announced that Facebook was "responding positively,"
something Facebook has denied.

And Nossel sees a difference between 2004 and now. Talking about the most
repressive governments in the world, she argues that "the government ability to
sweep and search is [now] so great, it tips the scale. No technology on the side
of human rights advocates can confront it. That's new - and chilling."

*     *     *

What have we learned? There's a notable "Sesame Street" episode from years back
in which Cookie Monster wanders into a library and drives the librarian crazy by
asking over and over for a cookie. "This is a LIBRARY!" the librarian finally
screams, forgetting to whisper. "We have books! Just books!"

That's certainly been our image of what libraries do. "You can still find books
here," Mandelbaum reminds me, standing in a room full of processors.

But figures over the past decade seem to show that books - those rectangular
things with pages we turn - are slowly on the way out in the Digital Age. That's
less significant than it might seem, though. After all, we value books because
of the knowledge they hold. We've changed the way we convey knowledge many
times. Big Data is another source of knowledge. Will it become a more integral
part of tomorrow's libraries?

It is perhaps fitting that one of the "Sesame Street" characters most in tune
with the future is ... the Count. He counts everything. His role is to teach
kids the importance of counting. Big Data allows us to count everything - and
analyze what we find. But are numbers enough?

Brynjolfsson and Mr. McAfee compare Big Data to Leeuwenhoek's development of the
microscope in the 1670s. They are, after all, both tools. They let people see
lots of things that have always been around. Of course, the microscope also
prompted us to ask questions we could never ask before. Big Data does that, too.

Still, while Big Data can predict a flu outbreak or where trees fall, it can't,
by itself, resolve the economic and moral dilemmas we have. Whether to keep
power running, help patients faster, or preserve the record of America, Big Data
teaches us what's out there, not what's right.

There's nothing inherently wrong with Big Data. What matters, as it does for
Arnold Lund in California or Richard Rothman in Baltimore, are the questions -
old and new, good and bad - this newest tool lets us ask.

· Robert A. Lehrman is a novelist and former White House chief speechwriter for
Vice President Al Gore. Author of 'The Political Speechwriter's Companion,' he
teaches at American University and co-runs a blog, PunditWire.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Richmond police chief shares challenges of solving homicides

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley Contra Costa Times

SECTION: MY TOWN; Contra Costa; News; Local

LENGTH: 3814 words


In the wake of a rash of homicides, Richmond police Chief Chris Magnus on
Wednesday sent out an email to community and civic leaders detailing the
challenges and strategies investigators face in solving cases. The email
stresses the importance of witnesses' participation, which was reportedly key in
the recent capture of a man charged Tuesday with fatally shooting his neighbor
in 2009 in the Iron Triangle neighborhood.

The Richmond Police Department offers a $10,000 reward for information leading
to an arrest and conviction in unsolved homicide cases, regardless of how long
ago they occurred.

Here is a Magnus' email:

Dear City Council and other Richmond Community Members:

We have recently seen an increase in gun violence in Richmond -- much of it
associated with gang activity, some of it simply a result of "personal beefs"
between individuals. Unfortunately, gun violence frequently occurs in clusters
-- in many cases because incidents of retaliation follow the initial shooting --
and are very difficult to prevent.

I am often asked how the Police Department investigates these gun violence
cases, especially homicides, and why they are difficult to prevent and solve.
Here are some of the strategies and tools we use, as well as some of the
challenges we face:

Community Engagement: As an ongoing effort, well before a homicide or other gun
crime even takes place, our patrol and School Resource Officers (SROs) are out
in the community doing their best to build relationships, establish trust, make
contact with neighborhood residents, and develop information about dangerous
individuals who pose a threat to others. This is key to both preventing and
solving crimes.

Obviously, the community quickly hears about serious crimes after they occur
through the media, neighborhood blogs, and word-of-mouth. What most residents
don't know are the many crimes that are prevented because beat officers and SROs
develop information or engage in proactive field work, which allows them to
intervene ahead of the crime. These officers will make a key arrest, confiscate
a gun (our officers take an average of a gun off the street each day) or conduct
"compliance checks" to assure probationers and parolees are following the rules
that allow them to be back in the community.

Our personnel work closely with many community organizations that provide
services, or have a mission to prevent violence. They also engage the faith
community, school personnel and everyday residents to prevent and solve gun
crimes whenever possible.

Partnerships with other Law Enforcement Entities: RPD personnel work with many
other police, corrections and prosecution entities to address violent crime in
Richmond. This includes local jurisdictions close to us like San Pablo PD, El
Cerrito PD, the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Department (CCSO), BART PD and
others. It also includes the Contra Costa County Probation Department
(especially important based on the recent realignment of California's
corrections system that shifts responsibility for many offenders away from the
state and to the counties instead), as well the CDCR (State Corrections) Parole
Section. RPD also has a close relationship with personnel from several federal
agencies, including the FBI, ATF (Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms), the DEA, and
Customs (although we have no involvement with ICE -- the immigration section of
Customs).

Lastly, we work closely with county, state, and federal prosecution agencies,
including the Contra Costa District Attorney, the State Department of Justice
(DOJ), and the U.S. Attorney's Office. Most of our violent crime cases,
including homicides, are prosecuted (or evaluated for prosecution) under state
law by the DA's Office. Certain gun crimes are referred to the U.S. Attorney's
Office for prosecution under federal law when more serious sentencing options
are appropriate based on a pattern of ongoing violent crimes committed by the
offender.

Although the media often refer to many crimes in our immediate area as having
been "committed in Richmond," a great deal of our retaliatory gang violence
involves young men who live or hang out in unincorporated North Richmond --
which is not part of the City. Because of this, a significant number of gun
crimes associated with our larger community are the responsibility of the Contra
Costa County Sheriff's Department.

This means it's essential that RPD work closely with the Sheriff's Department.
When a shooting occurs, it's not uncommon for the perpetrators to flee from
Richmond into North Richmond, or vice versa. This complicates our ability to
make arrests and close cases, but despite this reality, our officers and
detectives communicate on an ongoing basis with CCSO deputies and investigators.
We also work regularly with investigators from the DA's Office.

The city of Richmond contracts with the DA's Office to have two assistant DAs in
our headquarters who focus exclusively on Richmond gun crimes and other criminal
cases. They work with our patrol officers and detectives to give special
attention to repeat violent offenders. They review cases, provide immediate
feedback, answer questions and provide training for our personnel that make our
officers more effective in dealing with violent crime.

The DA convenes regular meetings to discuss Richmond homicides and crime trends.
These meetings involve not only RPD personnel but lead investigators from other
local, state and federal jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of a new
protocol put in place in August of 2011, the DAs assigned to Richmond respond to
most homicide scenes to provide assistance as needed. This can help with
prosecution efforts later.

Crime Scene Investigations and Evidence Processing: Our department has 13
officers specifically trained as Crime Scene Investigators (CSIs). These
personnel are available 24/7 and respond to the scene of all homicides and many
other violent crimes. CSIs have many important responsibilities. They document
the physical nature and characteristics of crime scenes, which is painstaking
and can be quite time-consuming. This typically involves taking photographs,
collecting ballistic evidence (bullet casings, unexpended rounds, etc.),
gathering other evidence (clothing, items left behind by the offender), taking
latent prints when appropriate, and working closely with the other investigators
at the scene.

Processing crime scenes and evidence is very little like what's portrayed on
television. Evidence handling at a crime scene is complex. For example, people
sometimes wonder why the body of the deceased isn't moved or taken away from the
scene of a homicide more quickly. They may perceive this as disrespect or lack
of caring by the officers. What they don't realize is that a detailed inspection
of the deceased at the scene -- including the position of the body, bullet entry
and exit wounds, condition of the deceased's clothing and many other factors --
can be key to solving a case later on. It is a lengthy process. In addition, it
usually takes time for the County Coroner to respond to homicide scenes to do
their job.

The Department's CSIs pay close attention to ballistic evidence at the scene.
There may be numerous bullet casings, and even unexpended rounds, spread around
a wide area that need to be collected. In some cases, a gun may be located --
occasionally one that belonged to the victim.

RPD pays the CCSO Crime Lab to process many of these items and to enter/check
firearms evidence in IBIS -- the federal Integrated Ballistics Identification
System. The IBIS system records the distinctive pattern left on bullet evidence,
which can then later be matched to the exact gun that fired it, in much the same
way as fingerprints can be matched to the person who left them behind. Due to
the volume of cases handled by the CCSO Crime Lab, IBIS comparisons can take as
much as six months to complete. To expedite our comparisons, we have contracted
with a forensic expert to prioritize Richmond cases for a quicker turnaround.

We hear a lot about DNA evidence through the media. On television, DNA
processing of evidence occurs in minutes and is usually matched right away to a
known criminal -- facilitating an immediate arrest. In reality, many DNA cases
take months to be processed. There is not necessarily a match to anyone -- since
the DNA database is limited to persons who have DNA samples taken from them at
the time of a previous arrest or who are in the database for other reasons. DNA
analysis is extremely expensive for the submitting agency.

Crime labs are overwhelmed with evidence from Richmond and other cities in the
county. One of the frustrations for our investigators is the time it takes to
get lab results. Physical evidence can be one of the strongest parts of a
criminal case, yet it is not uncommon for months to pass before analysis results
related to key pieces of evidence comes back to investigators. This can delay
the ability to link a suspect to a crime, assuming a suspect has been
identified.

Witnesses: One of the first things police officers try to do when they respond
to the scene of a homicide or serious shooting is to identify and speak to
witnesses. Unfortunately, this is one of the most difficult parts of the
investigation. In many, many cases -- particularly those involving gang-related
violence -- witnesses are unwilling to come forward or talk with the police,
even when they have seen or know something about the crime. This is often
because of the brutality and brazenness of shootings -- which frequently occur
in places open to public view. It is also common in cases, where gang dynamics
are at play, for rivals to know one another, while neighborhood residents may be
totally unfamiliar with who these actors are. Offenders generally subscribe to a
strict street code that discourage cooperation with legitimate entities, such as
police and government.

There are many reasons witnesses -- and even surviving victims in many cases --
choose not to work with the police. Some of these reasons include: fear of
retaliation, perception that there is no point of getting involved "since the
system doesn't work anyway," distrust of the police and other authorities,
friendship or family ties to the perpetrators, cultural or language barriers,
bad personal or family experience(s) with the criminal justice system, current
arrest warrants or other charges pending against them, they are on parole or
probation, they are not confident what they saw or heard, or they will "handle
it themselves" (perpetuating the cycle of violence).

We are sometimes asked, "Why do you have so many officers at a serious crime
scene?" In addition to securing the crime scene perimeter (which can be
challenging depending on the size of the scene), the main reason for the large
number of officers and detectives is to make every possible effort to identify
and speak to witnesses. Homicides and other shootings are very complicated
investigations that involve piecing together many facts from different sources
that we address with a "team" approach in order to increase our accuracy and
efficiency.

Time is of the essence in these cases. If witnesses are not contacted as soon as
possible, it may be impossible to identify or locate them later on. You may have
heard of, or watched the TV show "The First 48" -- which portrays how critical
it is to gather evidence and identify witnesses during the first 48 hours
following the crime. When it comes to engaging with witnesses, however, the
process would better be called "The First 48 Minutes." The more time that passes
following a homicide or serious shooting, the more difficult it is to identify
and locate witnesses.

When investigators fail to locate helpful witnesses initially, they make every
effort to continue this process in the weeks and months that follow the crime.
Sometimes, important leads come from informants (also known as "Confidential
Informants" or "CIs"). Sometimes information comes from neighbors or other
eyewitnesses close to the scene of the crime who may need persuasion or
reassurance over time to get involved. Sometimes information comes from a family
member or associate of the suspect(s) who develop a motivation to work with the
police. There are cases, however, where no one comes forward and no one can be
identified to interview. This is a problem because eyewitnesses are equally as
valuable as physical evidence in shooting cases.

A major problem we face in dealing with witnesses is that they are not always
reliable. Sometimes a witness has such a lengthy criminal record and/or such
questionable motivation, there is little chance a prosecutor can put them on the
stand to testify, for fear they might actually jeopardize the case. Another
problem can be locating witnesses later on (for preliminary exams or trial, for
example) because individuals may leave the area, become uncooperative, or
generally make themselves as scarce as possible to avoid testifying.

On TV and in the movies, witnesses not associated with the suspect or victim
almost always seem to pick the suspect(s) out of a photo or police lineup. In
reality, witnesses may only catch a fleeting glance of a suspect; it may be
dark; clothing worn by the suspect(s) may make it difficult to see them; and
things often happen incredibly fast during the commission of a crime. Eyewitness
testimony is not always reliable, so investigators and prosecutors have to be
very careful about how this evidence is developed and used.

On a positive note, because of the relationships many of our officers have
developed with the community, it is not uncommon for beat officers and SROs to
be told about the "word on the street" going around about a particular shooting.
This information may not be enough to make a solid case against a suspect, but
it can provide us with a starting point for further investigation.

Who decides about charging a suspect? If a suspect is actually identified and
there is probable cause for an arrest, a state or federal prosecutor must still
make a decision about whether there is enough evidence to obtain a signed
warrant from a judge and ultimately to try the case in court.

Many people believe the police make charging decisions that involve suspects,
but this is not how the system works. Charges against suspects have to be made
by prosecutors -- and prosecutors base their charging decisions on multiple
factors. It is not uncommon for a district attorney or federal prosecutor to
send a case back to detectives requesting "more information or follow-up" before
they will move forward with prosecution.

In some instances, it is simply not possible for detectives to obtain additional
information, so a case may be stalled for months or even years. This is often
extremely disappointing to family members or friends of the victim, who may
believe a case is "going nowhere" because the police and/or prosecutors "simply
don't care." This is simply not true. Nothing makes officers and detectives more
frustrated than "knowing" who committed a crime, yet not having sufficient
evidence to get a suspect charged and tried in court. This is not an uncommon
occurrence in Richmond homicide cases.

Prosecutors are legally and morally obligated to not file charges against a
suspect unless they believe they can convince a jury of 12, beyond a reasonable
doubt, of the suspect's guilt. People often ask why charges aren't filed in an
effort to make a suspect go to trial, even if the prosecutor knows the trial
will end in an acquittal. The reason for this is that such conduct could be
construed as malicious prosecution.

Resources: Almost every police agency believes it needs more resources to solve
(and of course, prevent) homicides and other serious gun crimes. The plain
truth, however, is that the need for additional resources (especially personnel)
is much greater in Richmond than many other communities, simply because of the
amount of gang violence and the overall challenges of crime in the city.

When I ask members of the public how many sworn police officers we have in
Richmond, I get answers like "1,000", or "500." We actually have 195 sworn
personnel, which includes everyone from the newest recruit (who may still need
to go through a Basic Police Academy or be partnered up with a training officer
for on-the-job training) all the way up to me -- the Chief. About 90 of our
personnel are patrol officers (about another 20 are supervisors: patrol
sergeants and lieutenants) -- and about between 15-30 of these personnel are on
duty at any given time patrolling the entire city. The remainder of our sworn
staff are detectives, officers assigned to special details like the Regulatory
Unit or Recruiting and Training, as well as Administrative personnel. In
addition, most people do not realize that we always have personnel on leave
days, vacation, going through mandatory training, recovering from injuries or on
long-term disability, and otherwise away from the job for a myriad of reasons.

There are approximately a dozen investigators available to handle homicides,
although about half of them are primarily assigned to work robberies. Homicides
tend to come in groups, so the reality is that these personnel can be spread
very thin. Homicide investigators may be called out day or night, 7 days a week,
and then work long, long hours to follow-up on a murder or serious shooting in
that key period following the crime(s).

Thanks to the support of the City Council and the City Manager, RPD has been
fortunate that our overall staffing levels have increased over the past 7 years.
Despite these increases, however, we are still staffed below what a city with
our level of crime ideally needs.

Our department utilizes a variety of technologies to assist us with the
investigation of violent crime, including Crime Lab services (which come with a
hefty price tag through the Sheriff's Department), Closed Circuit TV (also
expensive and complicated to operate, maintain, and monitor), ShotSpotter (which
triangulates gunfire to provide the location and type of gun being fired -- but
it can't help with the fact that shooters generally don't stick around for the
police!), and license plate readers (LPRs). Residents often assume these
technologies are available and functioning throughout the entire city, but
because of cost, they are mostly limited to neighborhoods with higher levels of
violent crime. This is frustrating to many members of the public and police
officers alike, who wish there was a camera or a gunshot sensor available and
operating in every area where crimes occur.

The Department also relies on our crime analysis resources, including our
ability to track field contacts, provide timely crime data to our personnel, and
conduct meaningful analysis of crime trends. We have one Crime Analyst who works
behind the scenes with our officers and detectives to track serious crimes,
including gang activity. This has to be done carefully and accurately to protect
people's rights and to be most effective

Thanks to recent action by the City Council, the Department is contracting for a
service known as "Predictive Policing," which is being successfully used in
other cities, such as Los Angeles and New York City, to utilize complex
algorithms in predicting where future crimes are likely to occur so greater
resources can be placed in these locations. It sounds like science fiction, but
this process has a track record of proven positive results.

Ceasefire: The Richmond Police Department is part of the Ceasefire -- Lifelines
to Healing working group and overall effort. The Ceasefire program cannot
prevent all homicides, but it is recognized as a "best practice" around the
country to reduce shootings. The Ceasefire program involves police detectives
and other key individuals identifying persons involved in, or at high risk for
committing, gun violence. These individuals are then "called in" to participate
in a discussion about the law enforcement consequences (greater police
attention, enhanced prosecution efforts, etc.) for continuing to commit
shootings. They also hear an important message from the community, which is that
people care about them and that a support system exists to help them turn their
lives around. This effort involves community groups, service providers, the
faith community, formerly incarcerated individuals, and many others.

There are no instant or magical outcomes associated with the Ceasefire program,
but real prevention and long-term successes are hard to measure and difficult to
achieve. This program requires the persistent dedication and commitment of many
people and groups. It also requires sufficient funding and resources to provide
effective interventions. To provide sustainable interventions, shooters who want
to make major life changes often need life-skills training, employment, mental
health and substance abuse services, anger management and conflict resolution
skills, education, and other assistance. Few of these services are available to
the degree they are needed in our community, despite the best efforts of many
groups and people.

No Giving Up: Here's one especially important thing I'd like people to know
about our homicide investigations: We don't give up. Homicide cases are never
closed. Even when evidence is very limited and no witnesses have come forward;
even when we have exhausted all leads -- unsolved homicide cases remain open in
case information or evidence is developed later (sometimes years later) that
helps us solve a case and charge a suspect.

A good example of this is a 2009 homicide case that our investigators just made
an arrest on. We know how important this kind of closure is to victims' families
and friends. It's also important to our personnel, who have often spent several
thousand hours investigating a case. Our personnel are invested in these cases.

Another important thing to keep in mind: The Department offers a standing
$10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the
person or persons who committed any homicide -- even a homicide many years ago.
Lesser rewards may be available for critical information that helps us with
other serious shooting cases.

I hope this information has helped explain the ongoing work and challenges faced
by the police (and others) in addressing the problem of gun violence in our
community. This work is difficult and there are many obstacles to achieving
success. We are fortunate to have considerable support, and an ongoing
commitment for this work, from our City Council and other regional elected
leaders. We also have a caring group of residents who are highly invested in
this effort. That said, nothing is easy -- and our needs remain considerable. I
appreciate your time in learning more about these issues and your willingness to
partner with us as we move forward.

Chris Magnus

Chief of Police

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

The NSA is watching, but so are Google and Facebook

BYLINE: By Ken Dilanian McClatchy-Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News; World; Business

LENGTH: 1175 words


WASHINGTON -- Not long before headlines exposed National Security Agency
programs that secretly collect records of Americans' phone calls, another
surveillance system got far less attention: Nordstrom, the department store
chain, acknowledged it was tracking customers without their knowledge in 17
stores.

Nordstrom had hired a company to log a unique number emitted by shoppers'
smartphones, which automatically connected to Wi-Fi systems as they moved
through the stores. Shortly after a Dallas TV station broke the story in May,
Nordstrom announced it was discontinuing the program.

The company that sold the tracking service, Euclid Analytics, has tracked 50
million devices in 4,000 locations for 100 corporate and other customers, its
founder has said. Shoppers are free to opt out, but the process is complex --
they must enter their phone's media access control address, known as a MAC
address, on Euclid's website.

Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden's disclosures about domestic spying by the
NSA have sparked a broad debate about whether the government is using
sophisticated surveillance and data-mining techniques on its own citizens
without sufficient oversight.

But information gathered and exploited by Internet giants such asGoogleGOOG ),
Amazon andFacebook -- and traded by lesser-known data brokers such as Datalogix
and Acxiom -- can be more revealing than what the NSA can legally collect on
most Americans. Few consumers understand what data are being shared, with whom,
or how the information is being used.

"We normally think of the NSA as being far ahead of corporate America, but I'm
not so sure they are that far ahead anymore," said Mark Herschberg, chief
technology officer at Madison Logic, a New York-based company that provides data
for advertisers.

"There are thousands of companies out there collecting information on customers,
and together they are really aggregating quite a bit of data," he added. "Google
is reading through your email. Amazon is looking at not just what you buy, but
what you shop for."

The collection and analysis of consumer information in bulk is enabled by what
has been dubbed the "Big Data" revolution -- the combination of digitization,
cheap storage, robust computing power and sophisticated analytics that allows
experts to find correlations in ever-expanding pools of data.

In many ways, Big Data has been a boon for consumers, allowing companies to
tailor products and services.NetflixNFLX ) says three-fourths of its film and TV
show rentals come from its own recommendations, which rely on automated analysis
of customer preferences.

Big Data also has the potential, advocates say, to improve medical outcomes,
streamline government services and reduce crime. The Los Angeles Police
Department is analyzing data to isolate hot spots in its "predictive policing"
program, for example, steering officers to where crimes are expected to happen.

The downside may be just as dramatic, however.

Most Americans emit a stream of personal digital exhaust -- what they search
for, what they buy, who they communicate with, where they are -- that is
captured and exploited in a largely unregulated fashion. The information can be
used by identity thieves, insurance companies, prospective employers or
opponents in a civil lawsuit.

"How do I express my privacy requirements? Increasingly, it means I have shut
off my phone and become a digital hermit," said Ian Glazer, a vice president at
Gartner, an information technology research and advisory company.

In addition to privacy threats, he said, "there is a fundamental problem with
fairness, in the sense that I am generating all this data about me through my
devices, and these organizations are harvesting it and making a profit off it."

Google says it uses algorithms, not humans, to mine the content of Gmail
messages. Thus if someone sends a digital note about an upcoming trip, the
computer may generate an ad for an airline or hotel.

Amazon and other companies track online shoppers and display ads for items their
customers perused as they browse other websites. Retailer Target was able to use
purchasing patterns to figure out when women were pregnant and target ads
accordingly.

Smartphones double as tracking devices, sending periodic signals that disclose
their locations. Though the NSA says it does not collect that information about
Americans, numerous popular applications, including the game "Angry Birds" and
Yelp, do so for their developers, using precise coordinates from cell towers and
GPS systems. Some sell the data to third parties.

Mobile carriers, including Verizon Wireless, have begun selling aggregate
location data. Verizon, on its website, promises advertisers "detailed
demographics; location analysis to determine where your target consumer segment
lives and works; and foot-and-mobile traffic habits," though not names or phone
numbers.

"These companies have been practicing what I call privacy arbitrage for the last
10 years or so, mining all of our personal information," said a former U.S.
intelligence official who now works for a data company. He asked for anonymity
so he could be more candid. "I don't know to what degree the common person
understands how much data is being collected about them by these Silicon Valley
companies that are saving the world."

Just as NSA officials say the agency uses data on Americans only to hunt for
terrorists and spy on foreign adversaries, Silicon Valley executives say they
use personal information only to sell advertising and improve the customer
experience. Much of the data they store are anonymous, they say. They don't care
about customer names.

Yet anonymity can be temporary. In a study published in February in the journal
Scientific Reports, researchers were able to sort through location data on 1.5
million people and uniquely identify 95 percent of them based on four hours of
tracking. The big social networking and shopping sites do in fact store names,
email addresses, credit card information, shopping and browsing histories.

Even if the NSA, Google and Verizon have strong incentives not to abuse the data
they collect, they can't always control it. Just as Snowden purportedly used his
special access as a network administrator to download documents he wasn't
supposed to see, Google in 2010 disclosed that it had fired a systems engineer
after allegations that he had improperly accessed the email and chat content of
four teenage customers.

Officials at Euclid, the company that helped Nordstrom track its customers,
declined to comment. But in a March letter to Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., who
criticized the company, founder Will Smith said Euclid did not obtain the names
or phone numbers of customers and didn't share or sell its data with others.

Most consumers "probably don't understand what data is being collected," said
Evan Reiser, chief executive of the San Francisco firm AdStack, which uses
millions of detailed anonymous consumer profiles to customize targeted email
advertisements. "A lot of companies could do a much better job explaining that."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 29 DOCUMENTS


             The Press of Atlantic City (Pleasantville New Jersey)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday

NSA not only one watching

BYLINE: Ken Dilanian, The Press of Atlantic City, Pleasantville, N.J.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1206 words


July 14--WASHINGTON -- Not long before headlines exposed National Security
Agency programs that secretly collect records of Americans' phone calls, another
surveillance system got far less attention: Nordstrom, the department store
chain, acknowledged it was tracking customers without their knowledge in 17
stores.

Nordstrom had hired a company to log a unique number emitted by shoppers'
smartphones, which automatically connected to Wi-Fi systems as they moved
through the stores. Soon after a Dallas TV station broke the story in May,
Nordstrom announced it was discontinuing the program.

The company that sold the tracking service, Euclid Analytics, has tracked 50
million devices in 4,000 locations for 100 corporate and other customers, its
founder has said.

Shoppers are free to opt out, but the process is complex: They must enter their
phone's media access control address, known as a MAC address, on Euclid's
website.

Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden's disclosures about domestic spying by the
NSA have sparked a broad debate about whether the government is using
sophisticated surveillance and data-mining techniques on its own citizens
without sufficient oversight.

But information gathered and exploited by Internet giants such as Google, Amazon
and Facebook -- and traded by lesser-known data brokers such as Datalogix and
Acxiom -- can be more revealing than what the NSA can legally collect on most
Americans. Few consumers understand what data are being shared, with whom or how
the information is being used.

"We normally think of the NSA as being far ahead of corporate America, but I'm
not so sure they are that far ahead anymore," said Mark Herschberg, chief
technology officer at Madison Logic, a New York-based company that provides data
for advertisers.

"There are thousands of companies out there collecting information on customers,
and together they are really aggregating quite a bit of data," he added. "Google
is reading through your email. Amazon is looking at not just what you buy, but
what you shop for."

The collection and analysis of consumer information in bulk is enabled by what
has been dubbed the "Big Data" revolution -- the combination of digitization,
cheap storage, robust computing power and sophisticated analytics that allows
experts to find correlations in ever-expanding pools of data.

In many ways, Big Data has been a boon for consumers, allowing companies to
tailor products and services. Netflix says three-fourths of its film and TV show
rentals come from its own recommendations, which rely on automated analysis of
customer preferences.

Big Data also has the potential, advocates say, to improve medical outcomes,
streamline government services and reduce crime. The Los Angeles Police
Department is analyzing data to isolate hot spots in its "predictive policing"
program, for example, steering officers to where crimes are expected to happen.

The downside may be just as dramatic, however.

Most Americans emit a stream of personal digital exhaust -- what they search
for, what they buy, who they communicate with, where they are -- that is
captured and exploited in a largely unregulated fashion. The information can be
used by identity thieves, insurance companies, prospective employers or
opponents in a civil lawsuit.

"How do I express my privacy requirements? Increasingly, it means I have shut
off my phone and become a digital hermit," said Ian Glazer, a vice president at
Gartner Inc., an information technology research and advisory company.

In addition to privacy threats, he said, "there is a fundamental problem with
fairness, in the sense that I am generating all this data about me through my
devices, and these organizations are harvesting it and making a profit off it."

Google says it uses algorithms, not humans, to mine the content of Gmail
messages. Thus if someone sends a digital note about an upcoming trip, the
computer may generate an ad for an airline or hotel.

Amazon and other companies track online shoppers and display ads for items their
customers perused as they browse other websites. Retailer Target was able to use
purchasing patterns to figure out when women were pregnant and target ads
accordingly.

Smartphones double as tracking devices, sending periodic signals that disclose
their locations. Though the NSA says it does not collect that information about
Americans, numerous popular applications, including the game "Angry Birds" and
Yelp, do so for their developers, using precise coordinates from cell towers and
GPS systems. Some sell the data to third parties.

Mobile carriers, including Verizon Wireless, have begun selling aggregate
location data. Verizon, on its website, promises advertisers "detailed
demographics; location analysis to determine where your target consumer segment
lives and works; and foot-and-mobile traffic habits," though not names or phone
numbers.

"These companies have been practicing what I call privacy arbitrage for the last
10 years or so, mining all of our personal information," said a former U.S.
intelligence official who now works for a data company. He asked for anonymity
so he could be more candid. "I don't know to what degree the common person
understands how much data is being collected about them by these Silicon Valley
companies that are saving the world."

Just as NSA officials say the agency uses data on Americans only to hunt for
terrorists and spy on foreign adversaries, Silicon Valley executives say they
use personal information only to sell advertising and improve the customer
experience. Much of the data they store are anonymous, they say. They don't care
about customer names.

Yet anonymity can be temporary. In a study published in February in the journal
Scientific Reports, researchers were able to sort through location data on 1.5
million people and uniquely identify 95 percent of them based on four hours of
tracking. The big social networking and shopping sites do in fact store names,
email addresses, credit card information, shopping and browsing histories.

Even if the NSA, Google and Verizon have strong incentives not to abuse the data
they collect, they can't always control it. Just as Snowden purportedly used his
special access as a network administrator to download documents he wasn't
supposed to see, Google in 2010 disclosed that it had fired a systems engineer
after allegations that he had improperly accessed the email and chat content of
four teenage customers.

Officials at Euclid, the company that helped Nordstrom track its customers,
declined to comment. But in a March letter to Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., who
criticized the company, founder Will Smith said Euclid did not obtain the names
or phone numbers of customers and didn't share or sell its data with others.

Most consumers "probably don't understand what data is being collected," said
Evan Reiser, chief executive of the San Francisco firm AdStack, which uses
millions of detailed anonymous consumer profiles to customize targeted email
advertisements. "A lot of companies could do a much better job explaining that."

___ (c)2013 The Press of Atlantic City (Pleasantville, N.J.) Visit The Press of
Atlantic City (Pleasantville, N.J.) at www.pressofatlanticcity.com Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130714-1AC-NSA-not-only-one-watching-0714-20130714

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AC


                   Copyright 2013 The Press of Atlantic City


                               28 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

The NSA is watching, but so are Google and Facebook

BYLINE: By Ken Dilanian McClatchy-Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; Personal Technology; News; National; Local;
Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 1175 words


WASHINGTON -- Not long before headlines exposed National Security Agency
programs that secretly collect records of Americans' phone calls, another
surveillance system got far less attention: Nordstrom, the department store
chain, acknowledged it was tracking customers without their knowledge in 17
stores.

Nordstrom had hired a company to log a unique number emitted by shoppers'
smartphones, which automatically connected to Wi-Fi systems as they moved
through the stores. Shortly after a Dallas TV station broke the story in May,
Nordstrom announced it was discontinuing the program.

The company that sold the tracking service, Euclid Analytics, has tracked 50
million devices in 4,000 locations for 100 corporate and other customers, its
founder has said. Shoppers are free to opt out, but the process is complex --
they must enter their phone's media access control address, known as a MAC
address, on Euclid's website.

Self-confessed leaker Edward Snowden's disclosures about domestic spying by the
NSA have sparked a broad debate about whether the government is using
sophisticated surveillance and data-mining techniques on its own citizens
without sufficient oversight.

But information gathered and exploited by Internet giants such asGoogleGOOG ),
Amazon andFacebook -- and traded by lesser-known data brokers such as Datalogix
and Acxiom -- can be more revealing than what the NSA can legally collect on
most Americans. Few consumers understand what data are being shared, with whom,
or how the information is being used.

"We normally think of the NSA as being far ahead of corporate America, but I'm
not so sure they are that far ahead anymore," said Mark Herschberg, chief
technology officer at Madison Logic, a New York-based company that provides data
for advertisers.

"There are thousands of companies out there collecting information on customers,
and together they are really aggregating quite a bit of data," he added. "Google
is reading through your email. Amazon is looking at not just what you buy, but
what you shop for."

The collection and analysis of consumer information in bulk is enabled by what
has been dubbed the "Big Data" revolution -- the combination of digitization,
cheap storage, robust computing power and sophisticated analytics that allows
experts to find correlations in ever-expanding pools of data.

In many ways, Big Data has been a boon for consumers, allowing companies to
tailor products and services.NetflixNFLX ) says three-fourths of its film and TV
show rentals come from its own recommendations, which rely on automated analysis
of customer preferences.

Big Data also has the potential, advocates say, to improve medical outcomes,
streamline government services and reduce crime. The Los Angeles Police
Department is analyzing data to isolate hot spots in its "predictive policing"
program, for example, steering officers to where crimes are expected to happen.

The downside may be just as dramatic, however.

Most Americans emit a stream of personal digital exhaust -- what they search
for, what they buy, who they communicate with, where they are -- that is
captured and exploited in a largely unregulated fashion. The information can be
used by identity thieves, insurance companies, prospective employers or
opponents in a civil lawsuit.

"How do I express my privacy requirements? Increasingly, it means I have shut
off my phone and become a digital hermit," said Ian Glazer, a vice president at
Gartner, an information technology research and advisory company.

In addition to privacy threats, he said, "there is a fundamental problem with
fairness, in the sense that I am generating all this data about me through my
devices, and these organizations are harvesting it and making a profit off it."

Google says it uses algorithms, not humans, to mine the content of Gmail
messages. Thus if someone sends a digital note about an upcoming trip, the
computer may generate an ad for an airline or hotel.

Amazon and other companies track online shoppers and display ads for items their
customers perused as they browse other websites. Retailer Target was able to use
purchasing patterns to figure out when women were pregnant and target ads
accordingly.

Smartphones double as tracking devices, sending periodic signals that disclose
their locations. Though the NSA says it does not collect that information about
Americans, numerous popular applications, including the game "Angry Birds" and
Yelp, do so for their developers, using precise coordinates from cell towers and
GPS systems. Some sell the data to third parties.

Mobile carriers, including Verizon Wireless, have begun selling aggregate
location data. Verizon, on its website, promises advertisers "detailed
demographics; location analysis to determine where your target consumer segment
lives and works; and foot-and-mobile traffic habits," though not names or phone
numbers.

"These companies have been practicing what I call privacy arbitrage for the last
10 years or so, mining all of our personal information," said a former U.S.
intelligence official who now works for a data company. He asked for anonymity
so he could be more candid. "I don't know to what degree the common person
understands how much data is being collected about them by these Silicon Valley
companies that are saving the world."

Just as NSA officials say the agency uses data on Americans only to hunt for
terrorists and spy on foreign adversaries, Silicon Valley executives say they
use personal information only to sell advertising and improve the customer
experience. Much of the data they store are anonymous, they say. They don't care
about customer names.

Yet anonymity can be temporary. In a study published in February in the journal
Scientific Reports, researchers were able to sort through location data on 1.5
million people and uniquely identify 95 percent of them based on four hours of
tracking. The big social networking and shopping sites do in fact store names,
email addresses, credit card information, shopping and browsing histories.

Even if the NSA, Google and Verizon have strong incentives not to abuse the data
they collect, they can't always control it. Just as Snowden purportedly used his
special access as a network administrator to download documents he wasn't
supposed to see, Google in 2010 disclosed that it had fired a systems engineer
after allegations that he had improperly accessed the email and chat content of
four teenage customers.

Officials at Euclid, the company that helped Nordstrom track its customers,
declined to comment. But in a March letter to Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., who
criticized the company, founder Will Smith said Euclid did not obtain the names
or phone numbers of customers and didn't share or sell its data with others.

Most consumers "probably don't understand what data is being collected," said
Evan Reiser, chief executive of the San Francisco firm AdStack, which uses
millions of detailed anonymous consumer profiles to customize targeted email
advertisements. "A lot of companies could do a much better job explaining that."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An illustration picture shows a projection of binary code around the
shadow of a man holding a laptop computer in an office in Warsaw June 24, 2013.
REUTERS/Kacper Pempel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 29 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 24, 2013 Wednesday

Richmond police chief shares challenges of solving homicides

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3814 words


In the wake of a rash of homicides, Richmond police Chief Chris Magnus on
Wednesday sent out an email to community and civic leaders detailing the
challenges and strategies investigators face in solving cases. The email
stresses the importance of witnesses' participation, which was reportedly key in
the recent capture of a man charged Tuesday with fatally shooting his neighbor
in 2009 in the Iron Triangle neighborhood.

The Richmond Police Department offers a $10,000 reward for information leading
to an arrest and conviction in unsolved homicide cases, regardless of how long
ago they occurred.

Here is a Magnus' email:

Dear City Council and other Richmond Community Members:

We have recently seen an increase in gun violence in Richmond -- much of it
associated with gang activity, some of it simply a result of "personal beefs"
between individuals. Unfortunately, gun violence frequently occurs in clusters
-- in many cases because incidents of retaliation follow the initial shooting --
and are very difficult to prevent.

I am often asked how the Police Department investigates these gun violence
cases, especially homicides, and why they are difficult to prevent and solve.
Here are some of the strategies and tools we use, as well as some of the
challenges we face:

Community Engagement: As an ongoing effort, well before a homicide or other gun
crime even takes place, our patrol and School Resource Officers (SROs) are out
in the community doing their best to build relationships, establish trust, make
contact with neighborhood residents, and develop information about dangerous
individuals who pose a threat to others. This is key to both preventing and
solving crimes.

Obviously, the community quickly hears about serious crimes after they occur
through the media, neighborhood blogs, and word-of-mouth. What most residents
don't know are the many crimes that are prevented because beat officers and SROs
develop information or engage in proactive field work, which allows them to
intervene ahead of the crime. These officers will make a key arrest, confiscate
a gun (our officers take an average of a gun off the street each day) or conduct
"compliance checks" to assure probationers and parolees are following the rules
that allow them to be back in the community.

Our personnel work closely with many community organizations that provide
services, or have a mission to prevent violence. They also engage the faith
community, school personnel and everyday residents to prevent and solve gun
crimes whenever possible.

Partnerships with other Law Enforcement Entities: RPD personnel work with many
other police, corrections and prosecution entities to address violent crime in
Richmond. This includes local jurisdictions close to us like San Pablo PD, El
Cerrito PD, the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Department (CCSO), BART PD and
others. It also includes the Contra Costa County Probation Department
(especially important based on the recent realignment of California's
corrections system that shifts responsibility for many offenders away from the
state and to the counties instead), as well the CDCR (State Corrections) Parole
Section. RPD also has a close relationship with personnel from several federal
agencies, including the FBI, ATF (Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms), the DEA, and
Customs (although we have no involvement with ICE -- the immigration section of
Customs).

Lastly, we work closely with county, state, and federal prosecution agencies,
including the Contra Costa District Attorney, the State Department of Justice
(DOJ), and the U.S. Attorney's Office. Most of our violent crime cases,
including homicides, are prosecuted (or evaluated for prosecution) under state
law by the DA's Office. Certain gun crimes are referred to the U.S. Attorney's
Office for prosecution under federal law when more serious sentencing options
are appropriate based on a pattern of ongoing violent crimes committed by the
offender.

Although the media often refer to many crimes in our immediate area as having
been "committed in Richmond," a great deal of our retaliatory gang violence
involves young men who live or hang out in unincorporated North Richmond --
which is not part of the City. Because of this, a significant number of gun
crimes associated with our larger community are the responsibility of the Contra
Costa County Sheriff's Department.

This means it's essential that RPD work closely with the Sheriff's Department.
When a shooting occurs, it's not uncommon for the perpetrators to flee from
Richmond into North Richmond, or vice versa. This complicates our ability to
make arrests and close cases, but despite this reality, our officers and
detectives communicate on an ongoing basis with CCSO deputies and investigators.
We also work regularly with investigators from the DA's Office.

The city of Richmond contracts with the DA's Office to have two assistant DAs in
our headquarters who focus exclusively on Richmond gun crimes and other criminal
cases. They work with our patrol officers and detectives to give special
attention to repeat violent offenders. They review cases, provide immediate
feedback, answer questions and provide training for our personnel that make our
officers more effective in dealing with violent crime.

The DA convenes regular meetings to discuss Richmond homicides and crime trends.
These meetings involve not only RPD personnel but lead investigators from other
local, state and federal jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of a new
protocol put in place in August of 2011, the DAs assigned to Richmond respond to
most homicide scenes to provide assistance as needed. This can help with
prosecution efforts later.

Crime Scene Investigations and Evidence Processing: Our department has 13
officers specifically trained as Crime Scene Investigators (CSIs). These
personnel are available 24/7 and respond to the scene of all homicides and many
other violent crimes. CSIs have many important responsibilities. They document
the physical nature and characteristics of crime scenes, which is painstaking
and can be quite time-consuming. This typically involves taking photographs,
collecting ballistic evidence (bullet casings, unexpended rounds, etc.),
gathering other evidence (clothing, items left behind by the offender), taking
latent prints when appropriate, and working closely with the other investigators
at the scene.

Processing crime scenes and evidence is very little like what's portrayed on
television. Evidence handling at a crime scene is complex. For example, people
sometimes wonder why the body of the deceased isn't moved or taken away from the
scene of a homicide more quickly. They may perceive this as disrespect or lack
of caring by the officers. What they don't realize is that a detailed inspection
of the deceased at the scene -- including the position of the body, bullet entry
and exit wounds, condition of the deceased's clothing and many other factors --
can be key to solving a case later on. It is a lengthy process. In addition, it
usually takes time for the County Coroner to respond to homicide scenes to do
their job.

The Department's CSIs pay close attention to ballistic evidence at the scene.
There may be numerous bullet casings, and even unexpended rounds, spread around
a wide area that need to be collected. In some cases, a gun may be located --
occasionally one that belonged to the victim.

RPD pays the CCSO Crime Lab to process many of these items and to enter/check
firearms evidence in IBIS -- the federal Integrated Ballistics Identification
System. The IBIS system records the distinctive pattern left on bullet evidence,
which can then later be matched to the exact gun that fired it, in much the same
way as fingerprints can be matched to the person who left them behind. Due to
the volume of cases handled by the CCSO Crime Lab, IBIS comparisons can take as
much as six months to complete. To expedite our comparisons, we have contracted
with a forensic expert to prioritize Richmond cases for a quicker turnaround.

We hear a lot about DNA evidence through the media. On television, DNA
processing of evidence occurs in minutes and is usually matched right away to a
known criminal -- facilitating an immediate arrest. In reality, many DNA cases
take months to be processed. There is not necessarily a match to anyone -- since
the DNA database is limited to persons who have DNA samples taken from them at
the time of a previous arrest or who are in the database for other reasons. DNA
analysis is extremely expensive for the submitting agency.

Crime labs are overwhelmed with evidence from Richmond and other cities in the
county. One of the frustrations for our investigators is the time it takes to
get lab results. Physical evidence can be one of the strongest parts of a
criminal case, yet it is not uncommon for months to pass before analysis results
related to key pieces of evidence comes back to investigators. This can delay
the ability to link a suspect to a crime, assuming a suspect has been
identified.

Witnesses: One of the first things police officers try to do when they respond
to the scene of a homicide or serious shooting is to identify and speak to
witnesses. Unfortunately, this is one of the most difficult parts of the
investigation. In many, many cases -- particularly those involving gang-related
violence -- witnesses are unwilling to come forward or talk with the police,
even when they have seen or know something about the crime. This is often
because of the brutality and brazenness of shootings -- which frequently occur
in places open to public view. It is also common in cases, where gang dynamics
are at play, for rivals to know one another, while neighborhood residents may be
totally unfamiliar with who these actors are. Offenders generally subscribe to a
strict street code that discourage cooperation with legitimate entities, such as
police and government.

There are many reasons witnesses -- and even surviving victims in many cases --
choose not to work with the police. Some of these reasons include: fear of
retaliation, perception that there is no point of getting involved "since the
system doesn't work anyway," distrust of the police and other authorities,
friendship or family ties to the perpetrators, cultural or language barriers,
bad personal or family experience(s) with the criminal justice system, current
arrest warrants or other charges pending against them, they are on parole or
probation, they are not confident what they saw or heard, or they will "handle
it themselves" (perpetuating the cycle of violence).

We are sometimes asked, "Why do you have so many officers at a serious crime
scene?" In addition to securing the crime scene perimeter (which can be
challenging depending on the size of the scene), the main reason for the large
number of officers and detectives is to make every possible effort to identify
and speak to witnesses. Homicides and other shootings are very complicated
investigations that involve piecing together many facts from different sources
that we address with a "team" approach in order to increase our accuracy and
efficiency.

Time is of the essence in these cases. If witnesses are not contacted as soon as
possible, it may be impossible to identify or locate them later on. You may have
heard of, or watched the TV show "The First 48" -- which portrays how critical
it is to gather evidence and identify witnesses during the first 48 hours
following the crime. When it comes to engaging with witnesses, however, the
process would better be called "The First 48 Minutes." The more time that passes
following a homicide or serious shooting, the more difficult it is to identify
and locate witnesses.

When investigators fail to locate helpful witnesses initially, they make every
effort to continue this process in the weeks and months that follow the crime.
Sometimes, important leads come from informants (also known as "Confidential
Informants" or "CIs"). Sometimes information comes from neighbors or other
eyewitnesses close to the scene of the crime who may need persuasion or
reassurance over time to get involved. Sometimes information comes from a family
member or associate of the suspect(s) who develop a motivation to work with the
police. There are cases, however, where no one comes forward and no one can be
identified to interview. This is a problem because eyewitnesses are equally as
valuable as physical evidence in shooting cases.

A major problem we face in dealing with witnesses is that they are not always
reliable. Sometimes a witness has such a lengthy criminal record and/or such
questionable motivation, there is little chance a prosecutor can put them on the
stand to testify, for fear they might actually jeopardize the case. Another
problem can be locating witnesses later on (for preliminary exams or trial, for
example) because individuals may leave the area, become uncooperative, or
generally make themselves as scarce as possible to avoid testifying.

On TV and in the movies, witnesses not associated with the suspect or victim
almost always seem to pick the suspect(s) out of a photo or police lineup. In
reality, witnesses may only catch a fleeting glance of a suspect; it may be
dark; clothing worn by the suspect(s) may make it difficult to see them; and
things often happen incredibly fast during the commission of a crime. Eyewitness
testimony is not always reliable, so investigators and prosecutors have to be
very careful about how this evidence is developed and used.

On a positive note, because of the relationships many of our officers have
developed with the community, it is not uncommon for beat officers and SROs to
be told about the "word on the street" going around about a particular shooting.
This information may not be enough to make a solid case against a suspect, but
it can provide us with a starting point for further investigation.

Who decides about charging a suspect? If a suspect is actually identified and
there is probable cause for an arrest, a state or federal prosecutor must still
make a decision about whether there is enough evidence to obtain a signed
warrant from a judge and ultimately to try the case in court.

Many people believe the police make charging decisions that involve suspects,
but this is not how the system works. Charges against suspects have to be made
by prosecutors -- and prosecutors base their charging decisions on multiple
factors. It is not uncommon for a district attorney or federal prosecutor to
send a case back to detectives requesting "more information or follow-up" before
they will move forward with prosecution.

In some instances, it is simply not possible for detectives to obtain additional
information, so a case may be stalled for months or even years. This is often
extremely disappointing to family members or friends of the victim, who may
believe a case is "going nowhere" because the police and/or prosecutors "simply
don't care." This is simply not true. Nothing makes officers and detectives more
frustrated than "knowing" who committed a crime, yet not having sufficient
evidence to get a suspect charged and tried in court. This is not an uncommon
occurrence in Richmond homicide cases.

Prosecutors are legally and morally obligated to not file charges against a
suspect unless they believe they can convince a jury of 12, beyond a reasonable
doubt, of the suspect's guilt. People often ask why charges aren't filed in an
effort to make a suspect go to trial, even if the prosecutor knows the trial
will end in an acquittal. The reason for this is that such conduct could be
construed as malicious prosecution.

Resources: Almost every police agency believes it needs more resources to solve
(and of course, prevent) homicides and other serious gun crimes. The plain
truth, however, is that the need for additional resources (especially personnel)
is much greater in Richmond than many other communities, simply because of the
amount of gang violence and the overall challenges of crime in the city.

When I ask members of the public how many sworn police officers we have in
Richmond, I get answers like "1,000", or "500." We actually have 195 sworn
personnel, which includes everyone from the newest recruit (who may still need
to go through a Basic Police Academy or be partnered up with a training officer
for on-the-job training) all the way up to me -- the Chief. About 90 of our
personnel are patrol officers (about another 20 are supervisors: patrol
sergeants and lieutenants) -- and about between 15-30 of these personnel are on
duty at any given time patrolling the entire city. The remainder of our sworn
staff are detectives, officers assigned to special details like the Regulatory
Unit or Recruiting and Training, as well as Administrative personnel. In
addition, most people do not realize that we always have personnel on leave
days, vacation, going through mandatory training, recovering from injuries or on
long-term disability, and otherwise away from the job for a myriad of reasons.

There are approximately a dozen investigators available to handle homicides,
although about half of them are primarily assigned to work robberies. Homicides
tend to come in groups, so the reality is that these personnel can be spread
very thin. Homicide investigators may be called out day or night, 7 days a week,
and then work long, long hours to follow-up on a murder or serious shooting in
that key period following the crime(s).

Thanks to the support of the City Council and the City Manager, RPD has been
fortunate that our overall staffing levels have increased over the past 7 years.
Despite these increases, however, we are still staffed below what a city with
our level of crime ideally needs.

Our department utilizes a variety of technologies to assist us with the
investigation of violent crime, including Crime Lab services (which come with a
hefty price tag through the Sheriff's Department), Closed Circuit TV (also
expensive and complicated to operate, maintain, and monitor), ShotSpotter (which
triangulates gunfire to provide the location and type of gun being fired -- but
it can't help with the fact that shooters generally don't stick around for the
police!), and license plate readers (LPRs). Residents often assume these
technologies are available and functioning throughout the entire city, but
because of cost, they are mostly limited to neighborhoods with higher levels of
violent crime. This is frustrating to many members of the public and police
officers alike, who wish there was a camera or a gunshot sensor available and
operating in every area where crimes occur.

The Department also relies on our crime analysis resources, including our
ability to track field contacts, provide timely crime data to our personnel, and
conduct meaningful analysis of crime trends. We have one Crime Analyst who works
behind the scenes with our officers and detectives to track serious crimes,
including gang activity. This has to be done carefully and accurately to protect
people's rights and to be most effective

Thanks to recent action by the City Council, the Department is contracting for a
service known as "Predictive Policing," which is being successfully used in
other cities, such as Los Angeles and New York City, to utilize complex
algorithms in predicting where future crimes are likely to occur so greater
resources can be placed in these locations. It sounds like science fiction, but
this process has a track record of proven positive results.

Ceasefire: The Richmond Police Department is part of the Ceasefire -- Lifelines
to Healing working group and overall effort. The Ceasefire program cannot
prevent all homicides, but it is recognized as a "best practice" around the
country to reduce shootings. The Ceasefire program involves police detectives
and other key individuals identifying persons involved in, or at high risk for
committing, gun violence. These individuals are then "called in" to participate
in a discussion about the law enforcement consequences (greater police
attention, enhanced prosecution efforts, etc.) for continuing to commit
shootings. They also hear an important message from the community, which is that
people care about them and that a support system exists to help them turn their
lives around. This effort involves community groups, service providers, the
faith community, formerly incarcerated individuals, and many others.

There are no instant or magical outcomes associated with the Ceasefire program,
but real prevention and long-term successes are hard to measure and difficult to
achieve. This program requires the persistent dedication and commitment of many
people and groups. It also requires sufficient funding and resources to provide
effective interventions. To provide sustainable interventions, shooters who want
to make major life changes often need life-skills training, employment, mental
health and substance abuse services, anger management and conflict resolution
skills, education, and other assistance. Few of these services are available to
the degree they are needed in our community, despite the best efforts of many
groups and people.

No Giving Up: Here's one especially important thing I'd like people to know
about our homicide investigations: We don't give up. Homicide cases are never
closed. Even when evidence is very limited and no witnesses have come forward;
even when we have exhausted all leads -- unsolved homicide cases remain open in
case information or evidence is developed later (sometimes years later) that
helps us solve a case and charge a suspect.

A good example of this is a 2009 homicide case that our investigators just made
an arrest on. We know how important this kind of closure is to victims' families
and friends. It's also important to our personnel, who have often spent several
thousand hours investigating a case. Our personnel are invested in these cases.

Another important thing to keep in mind: The Department offers a standing
$10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the
person or persons who committed any homicide -- even a homicide many years ago.
Lesser rewards may be available for critical information that helps us with
other serious shooting cases.

I hope this information has helped explain the ongoing work and challenges faced
by the police (and others) in addressing the problem of gun violence in our
community. This work is difficult and there are many obstacles to achieving
success. We are fortunate to have considerable support, and an ongoing
commitment for this work, from our City Council and other regional elected
leaders. We also have a caring group of residents who are highly invested in
this effort. That said, nothing is easy -- and our needs remain considerable. I
appreciate your time in learning more about these issues and your willingness to
partner with us as we move forward.

Chris Magnus

Chief of Police

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               1 of 22 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2014 Washington Law Review Association
                             Washington Law Review

                                  March, 2014

                             Washington Law Review

                              89 Wash. L. Rev. 35

LENGTH: 14536 words

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND THE LAW: ESSAY: POLICING BY NUMBERS: BIG DATA AND
THE FOURTH AMENDMENT

NAME: Elizabeth E. Joh*

BIO: * Professor of Law, U.C. Davis School of Law (eejoh@ucdavis.edu). Thanks to
David Ball, Jack Chin, David Horton, Wayne Logan, Erin Murphy, and Charles
Reichmann for comments and suggestions, to the librarians of the Mabie Law
Library for research assistance, to the staff of the Washington Law Review for
the invitation to contribute to the Examining Artificial Intelligence symposium
and for their editorial work, and to the U.C. Davis School of Law for
institutional support.

TEXT:
 [*35]

   INTRODUCTION


   The age of "big data" has come to policing. In Chicago, police officers are
paying particular attention to members of a "heat list": those identified by a
risk analysis as most likely to be involved in future violence. n1 In Charlotte,
North Carolina, the police have compiled foreclosure data to generate a map of
high-risk areas that are likely to be hit by crime. n2 In New York City, the
N.Y.P.D. has partnered with Microsoft to employ a "Domain Awareness System" that
collects and links information from sources like CCTVs, license plate readers,
radiation sensors, and informational databases. n3 In Santa Cruz, California,
the police have reported a dramatic reduction in burglaries after relying upon
computer algorithms that predict where new burglaries are likely to occur. n4
The Department of Homeland Security has applied computer analytics to Twitter
feeds to find words like "pipe bomb," "plume," and "listeria." n5

    [*36]  Big data has begun to transform government in fields as diverse as
public health, transportation management, and scientific research. n6 The
analysis of what were once unimaginable quantities of digitized data is likely
to introduce dramatic changes to a profession which, as late as 1900, involved
little more than an able-bodied man who was given a hickory club, a whistle, and
a key to a call box. n7 Real-time access to and analysis of vast quantities of
information found in criminal records, police databases, and surveillance data
may alter policing n8 in the same way that big data has revolutionized areas as
diverse as presidential elections, n9 internet commerce, n10 and language
translation. n11 Some have even heralded big data's potential to change our
assumptions about social relationships, government, scientific study, and even
knowledge itself. n12

   In the private sector, retailers have harnessed big data to produce some
seemingly trivial but surprising changes to their practices. n13 A much
discussed example stems from Target's extensive use of data analytics to
identify certain purchases, such as supplements commonly taken during pregnancy,
to know whether a customer is pregnant,  [*37]  without the woman disclosing the
pregnancy herself. n14 For a retailer, pregnancy is a prime opportunity to
target a consumer when shopping habits change and expand. An irate father
allegedly complained to Target that his daughter was unfairly targeted as a
pregnant woman with coupons only to discover, to his chagrin, that Target was
better informed than he was. n15 Similarly, Walmart, through its computerized
retail tracking, has discovered that Strawberry Pop-Tarts and beer sell as
briskly as flashlights when hurricanes are forecast. These products were quickly
shipped to Florida Walmart stores in the path of Hurricane Frances in 2004. n16

   Yet unlike the data crunching performed by Target, Walmart, or Amazon, the
introduction of big data to police work raises new and significant challenges to
the regulatory framework that governs conventional policing. From one
perspective, the Fourth Amendment has proven remarkably flexible over time.
Constitutional law has governed ordinary policing whether the crimes involved
bootlegging, n17 numbers running, n18 marijuana farming, n19 or cell phones. n20
As the sophistication of criminals has increased, so too have the tools of the
police. In the twentieth century, perhaps no two tools have been as
revolutionary to modern policing as the two way radio and the patrol car. n21

   In this century, big data - in a variety of forms - may bring the next
dramatic change to police investigations. One researcher has concluded that it
will soon be technologically possible and affordable for  [*38]  government to
record everything anyone says or does. n22 How well will the Fourth Amendment's
rules pertaining to unreasonable searches and seizures adapt to the uses of big
data? Scholars have widely discussed the shortcomings of applying Fourth
Amendment doctrines, once adequate for a world of electronic beepers, physical
wiretaps, and binocular surveillance, to rapidly changing technologies. n23 But
big data may magnify these concerns considerably.

   This article identifies three uses of big data that hint at the future of
policing and the questions these tools raise about conventional Fourth Amendment
analysis. Two of these examples, predictive policing and mass surveillance
systems, have already been adopted by a small number of police departments
around the country. A third example - the potential use of DNA databank samples
- presents an untapped source of big data analysis. Whether any of these three
examples of big data policing attract more widespread adoption by the police is
yet unknown, but it likely that the prospect of being able to analyze large
amounts of information quickly and cheaply will prove to be attractive. While
seemingly quite distinct, these three uses of big data suggest the need to draw
new Fourth Amendment lines now that the government has the capability and desire
to collect and manipulate large amounts of digitized information.

   I. THE RISE OF BIG DATA

 What is big data? While not everyone agrees on a single definition of big data,
most agree that the term refers to: (1) the application of artificial
intelligence (2) to the vast amount of digitized data now available. n24 From
this basic definition, a few observations emerge about  [*39]  what is distinct
and significant about big data. n25

   First, big data alerts us to the sheer amount of information that is being
produced rapidly every year in digital form. n26 The turn towards digitized
information has been rapid and dramatic. As recently as the year 2000, only a
quarter of the world's stored information was digital; the majority of it was on
film, paper, magnetic tapes, and other similar non-digital media. n27 Today, the
opposite is true; nearly all of the world's stored information is digital: about
2.7 zettabytes in 2012. n28

   Digital information continues to grow at a rapid pace. According to IBM,
ninety percent of the world's data has been generated in the past two years. n29
The Executive Chairman of Google has claimed that we now create as much
information in two days as we did from the beginning of human civilization to
2003. n30 Some have suggested that we may run out of ways to quantify
numerically the amount of data generated. n31

   Nearly every piece of information today is capable of digitization and
storage, including Internet searches, retail purchases, Facebook posts,
cellphone calls, highway toll usage, and every last word in books. n32 Cheap,
small, and sophisticated sensors and tracking devices have been built into every
sort of product and object: smartphones, cars, toll  [*40]  transponders,
library books, and internet use. n33 The city of Santander, Spain is a prototype
of the coming "smart city," with 12,000 sensors buried underground that measure
everything from air pollution to free parking spaces. n34 The resulting data
doesn't disappear; it ends up in "data barns" that store the ever-growing amount
of information. n35 Wal-Mart handles more than a million customer transactions
every hour, resulting in databases storing more than 2.5 petabytes of
information. n36 In 2008, Facebook boasted storage of 40 billion photos. n37 The
Library of Congress decided in 2010 to archive every public "tweet" generated on
Twitter: about 170 billion tweets (and counting) in January 2013. n38

   Second, because the term also refers to the artificial intelligence applied
to these huge data sets, the big data phenomenon also suggests a change in the
way we understand our world. If conventional scientific research begins with a
hypothesis or question that then shapes the collection of the relevant data, the
big data phenomenon turns such conventions upside down. Because data is being
collected and stored all of the time, research questions do not have to shape or
limit data collection at all. n39 Researchers need not limit themselves to data
sampling, either. Big data permits the study of a phenomenon where the set is
nearly everything that is possible to study (another way of stating  [*41]  that
we are approaching n=all). n40 The existence of these massive data sets permits
sifting and resifting of the information therein for multiple purposes. n41
Thus, the Library of Congress's continuous collection of "tweets" has interested
researchers with questions as diverse as the role of public responses to smoking
ads, changes in investor sentiments, and real-time hurricane analysis. n42

   Such massive quantities of information also suggest that the very kinds of
questions posed by researchers will be different in the big data context. With
so much data available, Viktor Mayer-Schonberger and Kenneth Cukier argue that
two conventions of traditional research - a working hypothesis and the search
for causality - are no longer necessary given the insights that can be derived
from correlations found in big data. n43 The existence of huge amounts of data
permits research into correlations that don't require an underlying hypothesis.
For instance, Google's mathematical models have identified the forty-five search
terms (e.g. "medicine for cough and fever") most strongly identified with
historical flu data. n44 The resulting Google Flu Trends has proven to be
remarkably accurate in matching the historical surveillance data collected by
the Centers for Disease Control. n45 Thus, we can predict new outbreaks of the
flu simply by identifying correlations between Google search terms and the
spread of seasonal flu. n46 These predictions  [*42]  are useful in their
predictive value even though they provide no causal explanation, much in the
same way that Amazon's algorithms can predict that you might like a product
based on its analysis without caring why. n47 A key contribution of big data is
the ability to find useful correlations within data sets not capable of analysis
by ordinary human assessment.

   II. USE OF BIG DATA IN POLICING

 Across the country, some police departments have taken notice that they stand
to benefit from big data. While the use of big data in the private sector has
raised concerns about consumer privacy, its use by the police raises even bigger
questions about the limits of using data to justify surveillance, investigation,
and detention by the police. This section discusses three of the most important
developments in use of big data by the police: crime prediction, mass
surveillance, and DNA databanks.

   A. Crime Prediction: Predictive Policing

 Perhaps the most visible use of big data by police departments thus far has
been predictive policing: the application of computer modeling to historical
crime data to predict future criminal activity. n48 While the police have long
tried to find patterns of criminal activity on which to focus their resources,
n49 predictive policing permits the police to harness thousands of data points
to forecast where crime is likely to happen. The most basic models rely on past
crimes, but data sources can include factors as variable as payday schedules,
seasonal variation, liquor store  [*43]  locations, and potential escape routes.
n50

   What is new about predictive policing is not the use of quantitative data.
n51 In the 1990s, the N.Y.P.D. ushered in an era of intelligence-based policing.
n52 Under Commissioner Bill Bratton, the N.Y.P.D. introduced the now famous
CompStat system n53: weekly meetings at the N.Y.P.D. headquarters at which a
revolving group of commanding officers around the city gave accountings of
themselves for the recent crime data collected in their precinct. n54 By
evaluating performance by the rise or fall of crime data within their precincts,
CompStat meetings forced accountability upon commanding officers. Such
data-driven policing spread to other departments around the United States when
crime rates began to fall dramatically within New York City, n55 a result the
police attributed to its reliance upon CompStat, along with the adoption of
"broken windows" policing n56 and aggressive stop and frisk tactics. n57  [*44]
CompStat and similar programs inspired by it rely on the collection of crime
statistics to inform police decision-making. n58

   The innovation of predictive policing is the application of artificial
intelligence to such large data sets. CompStat relied heavily on the collection
and display of past crime data; predictive policing applies computer analysis to
similar information. The identification of future geographic places likely to be
targeted by criminals has attracted the most attention. These predictive models
all rely on well-established observations about the spatial distribution of
criminal behavior. Crime is not found randomly across a city, but rather tends
to fall within limited, and often very small, areas. n59 (Crime tends to be
"lumpy.") For instance, researchers found that over a fourteen year period,
about fifty percent of the crime in Seattle was limited to 4.5 percent of the
city's street segments. n60 Based upon this connection between crime and place,
computer models adopt different approaches towards the prediction of crime.

   For instance, the Santa Cruz Police Department uses software that assumes
that crime patterns follow a pattern similar to earthquake aftershocks. n61 The
software applies a computer algorithm to a database representing five years'
worth of crime data (including crime time, location, and type) to assess the
likelihood of future crime occurring in the geographic areas within the city,
narrowed to squares measured 500 by 500 feet (Figure A). n62 Prior to each
shift, Santa Cruz police officers  [*45]  receive information identifying 15
such squares with the highest probability of crime, and are encouraged - though
not required - to provide greater attention to these areas. n63 After its
experimental introduction in 2011, the Santa Cruz Police Department reported a
significant drop in burglaries when compared to a period prior to the adoption
of predictive policing. n64 Similar experiments relying upon this software are
being conducted by the police in Los Angeles and Seattle. n65

   [SEE FIGURE A IN ORIGINAL]

   Figure A: Predictive Policing Map n66

   Other approaches may consider additional factors other than the timing and
location of past crimes. Risk terrain theory, for example, looks at the social,
physical, and behavioral factors that make it more likely certain areas will be
targeted by crime. n67 The resulting risk terrain  [*46]  map, which gives each
factor its own mapping "layer," is a composite map that assigns a risk
assessment for all of the factors associated with criminal activity. n68 For
example, police in Morris County, New Jersey, use five factors for their risk
terrain modeling: (1) past burglaries; (2) the residential location of
individuals recently arrested for property crimes; (3) the proximity to major
highways; (4) the geographic concentration of young men; and (5) the location of
apartment complexes and hotels. n69 Morris County police attribute significant
drops in violent and property crime to a reliance on risk terrain modeling. n70

   A second type of predictive technology focuses on the application of
algorithms to social media in order to identify likely criminality based on the
role an individual plays within a social network. n71 This social network
analysis n72 begins with the assumption that social networks undergird many
crimes: an illegal drug-dealing network may loosely follow the hierarchical
structure of a legitimate business, with suppliers, distributors, buyers, and
financiers. n73 (Indeed, this type of analysis has its roots in the military
study of insurgent groups abroad. n74) The algorithms used in social network
software can help police visualize the density of connections an individual has
within a social network. These connections might take the form of exchanges,
communications, family ties, participation in crimes, or affiliations with an
organization. n75

[*47]

   [SEE FIGURE B IN ORIGINAL]

   Figure B: Hypothetical Social Network Analysis n76

 When used by a police department, social network analysis might be used to
identify a "central node": a person with a high degree of "connectivity within
the network" (Figure B). n77 While traditional police work might easily identify
leaders within a criminal organization, social network analysis can identify
those with influence or those who transmit information within the group quickly
and yet whose roles are not otherwise apparent. n78 The software can even reveal
deliberately concealed affiliations. Even if an individual suspected of being
part of a criminal organization does not admit his affiliation, social network
software can calculate the probability of his membership. n79

   How does such software help police investigations? The identification of a
highly "networked" individual could permit the police to infiltrate an
organization in the most efficient way, or to identify a hidden source of
influence within an organization for further investigation. n80 Also, by
revealing hidden relationships among groups, police can disrupt subterfuges by
rival criminal organizations. In a gang war, one group likely to retaliate may
not do so directly, for fear of being targeted by the  [*48]  police, and
instead may enlist an ally gang. n81 Social network analysis can help understand
which alliances might require heightened surveillance. n82

   B. Mass Surveillance: Domain Awareness Systems

 If predictive policing harnesses data to predict the future, computer
surveillance systems help police create a software-enhanced picture of the
present, using thousands of data points from multiple sources within a city. As
with predictive policing, computer enhanced mass surveillance grows out of other
policing techniques. n83 While surveillance has long been an essential tool of
the police, what has changed is its supporting technology. Sophisticated yet
inexpensive, the surveillance equipment used by the police today produces
enormous amounts of information, often too much for the police to use in an
efficient way without the help of technology. The N.Y.P.D., for instance, has a
database of 16 million license plates captured from its license plate readers,
along with the locations of where the plates were photographed. n84

   The N.Y.P.D. has responded to this big data problem by creating a software
program with Microsoft. Dubbed a "domain awareness system" ("DAS"), n85 the
software collects and analyzes information around the clock within New York City
from sources as disparate as the city's 3,000 public surveillance cameras, n86
over 200 automatic license plate readers, n87 more than 2,000 radiation sensors,
n88 and information from  [*49]  police databases. n89 The software's mapping
features permit the police to see and understand the information in a way that
was not possible before. Located within the N.Y.P.D.'s lower Manhattan Security
Initiative Command Center, the Domain Awareness System's operators can quickly
use the software to identify potential threats. n90

   This system gives the police real-time access to information that can reveal
connections between persons, items, and places in ways that may not be obvious
to individual crime analysts. The DAS employs video analytic software designed
to detect threats, such as unattended bags. n91 The N.Y.P.D. claims that the DAS
can track where a car associated with a suspect is located, and where it has
been in the past days, weeks, or months. n92 The DAS can also check license
plate numbers, compare them to watch lists, and provide the police with
immediate access to any criminal history associated with the car owner. n93 In
November 2013, the N.Y.P.D. relied on its DAS to watch nearly every portion of
the New York City Marathon route, a potential terrorist target after the Boston
Marathon bombings in April 2013. n94

   While New York City has received the most attention for its high-tech
approach to surveillance, other cities have shown interest in these mass
surveillance systems. Oakland, California, a much smaller city in  [*50]
comparison but plagued with a high crime rate, n95 has decided to launch a
Domain Awareness Center n96 poised to collect and analyze surveillance data
"from gunshot-detection sensors in the barrios of East Oakland to license plate
readers mounted on police cars patrolling the city's upscale hills." n97 The
resulting analysis will be displayed on a bank of giant monitors providing
Oakland police with a unified visual representation of the very different
sources: police and fire dispatch systems, gunshot detectors, license plate
readers, private alarm detection programs, and social media feeds. n98

   C. Genetic Big Data: DNA Databanks

 Perhaps less obvious but no less important a big data matter is the collection
of DNA for criminal justice databases, which as of June 2013 contained DNA
profiles for 10.7 million offenders and 1.7 million arrestees. n99 The United
States has used this information to amass the largest DNA database in the world.
n100 Police agencies around the country rely on CODIS - the shorthand for the
system that links information among the different DNA databases around the
country n101 -  [*51]  to match crime scene samples with offender or arrestee
DNA profiles. n102 The millions of DNA samples now accessible by the police
present another potential use of big data.

   The rapid growth of American DNA databases can be attributed to the
ever-expanding categories of those deemed eligible for compulsory DNA
collection. While the first state DNA databases collected samples only from
violent felons or felony sex offenders, today every state collects DNA from all
convicted felons. n103 A majority of states collect DNA from those convicted of
misdemeanor sex offenses. n104 In 2012, New York became the first "all crimes
state." n105 Nearly every person convicted of a crime in New York, regardless of
its gravity, will be required to submit a DNA sample for inclusion in the
state's DNA database. n106

   The reliance of states upon arrestee DNA collection appears to be following a
similar path. In 1997, Louisiana became the first state to authorize the
collection of DNA from some categories of arrestees. n107 Today, twenty-eight
more states and the federal government have followed Louisiana's lead in
requiring some categories of arrestees to provide DNA samples. n108 The Supreme
Court's 2013 decision in  [*52]  Maryland v. King n109 upholding compulsory
arrestee DNA collection n110 will likely mean that the practice will expand to
many other states. n111

   How do DNA databases raise big data questions? First, the emerging and
controversial use of familial matches is in fact a big data issue. Based on the
assumption that close relatives share more genetic information than unrelated
individuals, familial searches are searches of DNA databases that look for
profiles that only partially match the thirteen STR markers n112 on a DNA
profile. n113 (Such a search might take place, for instance, if a CODIS search
yields no identical match. n114) Familial searches take advantage of the big
data set that is CODIS: the capability to search millions of individual DNA
profiles. n115 Additional testing on DNA samples may be necessary to confirm
potential matches. n116

   Similar to other uses of big data, a familial search repurposes (genetic)
data collected for another reason (identical matches). n117 Critics of familial
searches have focused on issues of privacy and equity, including the concern
that familial searches will draw disproportionate  [*53]  attention to racial
and ethnic minorities who may be unfairly targeted for genetic surveillance.
n118 Yet if we think of familial searches as big data problems, we might also
make some useful connections to other areas in which data is being amassed in
large quantities for one purpose and later used for another. For instance,
policies on familial searches might follow principles of informational privacy
used in other database contexts, including limited later analysis to the
specific original purpose for which the information was collected. n119

   This potential for repurposing is not limited to familial searches of CODIS,
either. A profile in the national DNA database is a string of numbers referring
to the thirteen STR locations. n120 Most courts analyzing Fourth Amendment
challenges to the compulsory collection of DNA have focused only on the DNA
profile to deny that their collection and storage by the government raises
serious privacy concerns. n121 What is often ignored, however, is that these
numbers are generated from biological samples. n122 These samples pose rich data
possibilities; information that could be analyzed in different ways for a
variety of purposes. n123 Indeed, David Lazer and Viktor Mayer-Schonberger argue
[*54]  that the very existence of these DNA samples "invites re-purposing at a
later stage." n124

   At the moment, however, practical and legal barriers bar this possibility.
n125 Although state laws vary with regard to storage, retention, and disclosure
requirements, n126 federal law imposes conditions on those samples used to
generate profiles for CODIS. For instance, federal law requires that all samples
used for CODIS profiles are subject to disclosure only to "criminal justice
agencies for law enforcement identification purposes," "in judicial
proceedings," "for criminal defense purposes," and for a "population statistics
database, identification research and protocol development purposes, or for
quality control purposes." n127 At the same time, most state laws contemplate
indefinite retention of most DNA samples. n128 Justifications for indefinite DNA
sample retention include the need to identify potential sample contamination or
mix-ups, to implement changes in the technology used to analyze samples, and to
provide lab quality assurance. n129

    [*55]  For the now, practical barriers also bar comprehensive analysis of
the millions of samples collected for criminal justice purposes. While human
genome sequencing is vastly cheaper today than it was a few years ago, it likely
remains prohibitively costly for states to undertake on a massive scale. n130
These practical and legal impediments may, however, change one day. As
technological capabilities change, costs decrease, and a greater understanding
of genetic information emerges, the use of DNA databases will raise serious
questions for lawmakers about the appropriate balance of big data analysis and
privacy protections. n131

   III. HOW BIG DATA CHALLENGES FOURTH AMENDMENT ANALYSIS

 These evolving areas raise new questions about how best to regulate the use of
big data by the police. In particular, they arise from three characteristics of
big data: the use of artificial intelligence, the scale of data storage, and the
repurposing of collected data. This section considers some of the difficult
questions that judges and lawmakers will face.

   A. Human Judgment and Police Suspicion

 While popular accounts misleadingly suggest that predictive policing involves
police decision-making controlled by computers, n132 even partial reliance on
artificial intelligence does raise important Fourth Amendment questions. Police
are using predictive policing software to direct them to places where they
believe there is a high likelihood of criminal activity. Having been directed
there by computer analysis, the police must then determine whether any persons
located there warrant further investigation. What role should artificial
intelligence and human judgment play in Fourth Amendment individualized
suspicion?

   At a minimum, ordinary investigative detentions by the police require  [*56]
reasonable suspicion n133 based on a totality of the circumstances. n134 The
Supreme Court's decisions have permitted the police to formulate reasonable
suspicion based not only on their own personal observations, but also on other
information, including fellow officers, n135 tips (even anonymous ones), n136
and sometimes even on determinations that particular geographic locations may be
labeled as "high crime areas." n137 In particular, tips relied upon by the
police must be sufficiently particularized to an individual, in some part
predictive of future activity, and corroborated by the observation of the police
themselves. n138

   The question here is whether predictive software based on historical crime
data is similar to other uses of third party information that have already been
held to support a reasonable suspicion determination. n139 Imagine that such
software directs the police to a city block to look for property crime, and they
observe activity that by itself may not appear obviously suspicious, such as
carrying a duffel bag, or peering in windows. n140 A probabilistic determination
is not exactly like an informant's tip, particularly since predictive software
provides assessments about geographic areas and not persons. n141 Nevertheless,
a  [*57]  court might analogize computerized predictions to informant-based
predictions about specific places - such as drug houses and hourly motels - to
add to the reasonable suspicion assessment. n142 While likely not sufficient on
its own to provide justification for a stop (because of its lack of specificity
with regard to persons), such predictions could form the basis of police
observation and corroboration. n143

   So long as predictive software is not the sole justification used by police,
courts are likely to accept its place within the reasonable suspicion analysis.
If, for instance, courts were to borrow assessments of credibility and veracity
from the informant context, n144 predictive software may provide more
justification than an anonymous informant. The assumptions and inputs of such
software, after all, are capable of verification. n145 Indeed, to the extent
that the Supreme Court has emphasized that the reasonable suspicion
determination is to be objective, n146 reliance on a computer analysis of crime
data is arguably more objective than an inference made by an officer or a tip
provided by a third party. Software with a demonstrated history of successfully
predicting high crime areas based on verifiable crime data is likely to be a
highly persuasive factor in the reasonable suspicion formulation.

   Indeed, predictive software may remove some of the problems raised by the
types of information used. Informants, particularly anonymous ones, can have
questionable motivations in aiding the police. n147 In  [*58]  addition, most
courts are highly deferential to generalized police judgments of what
constitutes a "high-crime area." n148 Software that eliminates undesirable
biases and requires quantitative precision can introduce more fairness into the
police decision-making process. n149

   Some caveats remain, however. First, no predictive policing program is
entirely objective. The basic building blocks of a predictive software program
necessarily involve human discretion. n150 The assumptions underlying any method
of crime prediction rely upon the decision to choose one model of risk
prediction over another. The data used to build the models will depend on
discretionary judgments about the types of crimes used for prediction, and the
type of information used to predict those crimes. Should a police department
focus on burglaries; and if so, how are burglaries to be measured? For example,
reliance on arrest rates is surely problematic n151 because arrests themselves
are discretionary decisions that, if used as the basis to justify more
attention, may simply reinforce unjustified police stereotypes that certain
neighborhoods need heavier police attention. n152

   Second, prediction models might nudge police judgments in favor of
investigative detention in borderline cases because the police rely too  [*59]
heavily on probabilistic information. n153 If, for example, a predictive model
directs the police to look at a particular block for burglaries, then it may
encourage the police to "see" suspicious behavior when there may be none. n154
The danger here is that an overreliance on the objectivity of prediction - which
is in fact an informed probabilistic guess - will be determinative, rather than
a supplement to independent assessments by the police.

   B. Privacy and Surveillance Big Data

 What we do in public can be seen by anyone and therefore we generally cannot
claim those activities are private. That intuition is embodied in the Katz
reasonable expectation of privacy test to determine whether the Fourth Amendment
applies to police activity at all. n155 But does assuming the risk of police
surveillance mean something different when the police have mass surveillance
capabilities?

   Computer enhanced mass surveillance systems would seem to be the latest
example of the increasing sophistication of police technologies to monitor
public activity. Decades of police reliance upon CCTV cameras, electronic
beepers, listening devices, surveillance aircraft, and other similar sense
enhancements have prompted concerns that these measures have significantly
eroded any social sense of privacy individuals have in public. n156 Indeed, the
Supreme Court has emphasized in a number of cases that our public activities,
movements, and even our literal physical characteristics visible to the public
lack Fourth Amendment protection. n157

    [*60]  Moreover, a line of Supreme Court cases suggests that any "scientific
enhancement" of the senses used by the police to watch activity falls outside of
the Fourth Amendment's protections if the activity takes place in public. n158
Thus, the Supreme Court concluded in United States v. Knotts that police use of
an electronic beeper to follow a suspect surreptitiously did not constitute a
Fourth Amendment search. n159 The premise underlying such a conclusion is that
if the police could themselves pursue a suspect over the same public roads, then
so too could an electronic beeper concealed within a container given to the
unwitting suspect. n160

   The surveillance capacities of the police today, however, far exceed even
what armies of police officers could accomplish without access to big data. n161
That difference should alter the absence of Fourth Amendment protections.
Indeed, several Justices have recently indicated concerns about the big data
surveillance capacities of the police. n162 For example, in United States v.
Jones n163 (regarding the twenty-eight day GPS tracking of a single suspect n164
), five Justices expressed concerns that long-term police surveillance, even of
a person's public movements, might constitute a Fourth Amendment search. n165
The premise here, sometimes referred to as the "mosaic theory," is that the
danger to Fourth Amendment privacy lies in the aggregation of discrete bits of
data, even if each piece standing alone would not be subjected to constitutional
protections. n166 Indeed, the majority in Knotts  [*61]  acknowledged that
"dragnet-type law enforcement practices," such as "twenty-four hour surveillance
of any citizen of this country," might raise a Fourth Amendment problem while
the use of a beeper did not. n167

   Not only is the quantity of information collected in the big data context far
greater, the very nature of surveillance itself is different. If conventional
surveillance involves the intentional tracking of one or a few suspects by
actual police officers, what happens when a person "emerges" as a surveillance
target as a result of a computer analysis? In the traditional surveillance
context, the police have not been constrained by the Fourth Amendment so long as
their investigations neither interfered with an individual's movements, nor
ranged beyond public spaces. n168 As the Supreme Court has observed, there is no
constitutional right to be free from police investigation. n169

   But this surveillance discretion may mean something different in the big data
context. The intentional surveillance of targeted individuals is not equivalent
to the perpetual "indiscriminate data collection" n170 of entire populations.
While both approaches involve watching by the government, a program like the
N.Y.P.D.'s "total domain awareness" system differs from traditional surveillance
enough to warrant a different approach. n171 The very quality of public life may
be different when government watches everyone - surreptitiously - and stores all
of the resulting information. n172

    [*62]  Practical barriers have long served to protect individual privacy by
forcing the police to selectively apply their resources and interests, n173 but
those barriers have now largely eroded. n174 The ability of government to
record, store, and analyze nearly everything we do is now becoming
technologically possible and affordable. n175 By 2015, it will cost just two
cents to store all of the audio data generated by the average person in one
year; storing a year's worth of a person's movements generated by their
cellphone will cost next to nothing. n176 These expanded capabilities raise the
possibility of a "surveillance time machine": the capacity of the government to
identify a person of interest and then search retrospectively through all of the
data that has been stored and collected about that person. n177 While some
people have already changed their personal habits to avoid this mass
surveillance, many likely have not. n178

   The longstanding doctrines declaring that we lack any Fourth Amendment
protections in the public sphere should not hold its traditional force once the
police deploy the tools of big data. n179 "Knowing exposure" suggests a degree
of control over one's information that is lacking when the government is capable
of recording and storing every small detail in perpetuity. n180 Thus the
traditional assumptions about Fourth Amendment protections in public spaces,
[*63]  absent statutory protections from Congress, call out for reexamination
and doctrinal adaptation.

   C. Repurposing Information

 Google's reuse of search terms to identify flu outbreaks represents an upending
of a core research convention: formulate a hypothesis first, and then collect
the appropriate data. n181 With big data, we can collect (nearly all) the data
first, and apply the questions later. n182 Indeed, the data can be analyzed in
multiple ways at multiple times. n183 It is this repurposing or resifting of
data that has led to some of big data's unexpected insights, like Google's flu
analysis.

   When it is the police who sift through the data, however, the Fourth
Amendment is ill-suited to this particular relationship of data collection and
analysis. The Fourth Amendment is primarily interested in the legitimacy of how
information is acquired. n184 If the acquisition is permissible, how the police
use that information thereafter is generally not subject to an additional Fourth
Amendment challenge. n185 This suggests that once legitimately within the
government's possession, information can be repurposed and reanalyzed without
any additional Fourth Amendment justification. n186 In the case of genetic
information, courts have been generally dismissive of claims that individuals
have any Fourth Amendment claims to DNA samples once lawfully acquired  [*64]
by the police, but used for investigative purposes unrelated to the original
justification for the sample's collection. n187

   Is a secondary analysis of an individual's DNA sample to find a familial
match sufficiently similar to an analysis to find whether that same individual
is responsible for another crime? Are there other sorts of information to be
derived from DNA samples that ought to require distinct Fourth Amendment
justifications? Repurposing a DNA sample to look for information regarding
someone other than the source of the sample raises sufficient privacy concerns
that some further government justifications may be necessary. n188 Such a search
does more than "identify" again the source of the DNA sample in a subsequent
police investigation. n189

   The government's ability to reanalyze information - of any sort - in the age
of big data calls out for a new approach. What courts could do is shift the
focus of the Fourth Amendment from data collection to a more rigorous scrutiny
of its intended uses by the government. n190 Indeed, Harold Krent proposed
nearly twenty years ago that the repurposing of information by the government
obtained at an earlier time could be deemed unreasonable for Fourth Amendment
purposes. n191 Professor Krent suggested, for instance, that courts might
consider whether the seizure of a person's information would have been
reasonable had the government articulated the later use initially. n192 The
closer the  [*65]  government's secondary purpose is to its original purpose at
the time of acquisition, the more likely it should be that the government could
use the data without further justification.

   The case for Fourth Amendment protections regarding repurposed information is
stronger still should the government one day be interested in gleaning
information from DNA samples other than matching profiles to crime scene
samples. Here, the Supreme Court has hinted at a willingness to reassess the
balance of privacy and government utility at some future date. In Maryland v.
King, n193 in which the Court upheld the compulsory collection of DNA from
arrestees, n194 Justice Kennedy suggested that "if in the future police analyze
[DNA] samples to determine [other information], that case would present
additional privacy concerns not present here." n195 The resolution by the Court
regarding such a dispute may well turn, however, on the purposes claimed by the
government to mine that information. In King, the Court was willing to permit
defendant's cheek swab, and the subsequently generated DNA profile, without
individualized suspicion because the police were permitted to find out King's
"identity": a term broad enough to encompass any other crimes King had
committed. n196

   For now, however, the Court has left open the possibility that it may give
greater scrutiny to some sorts of repurposing. That, plus the existing statutory
protections on access and disclosure, may allay the concerns of many. n197 Yet
it would be overly optimistic to ignore two developments in the other direction:
the trend of Fourth Amendment law away from protection in these secondary
searches, and the Court's recent expansion of what the government may do for
purposes of "identification" when it comes to genetic information. n198

[*66]

   D. Beyond the Fourth Amendment

 Apart from the Fourth Amendment challenges raised by big data policing, an
uncritical embrace of these new technologies raises other concerns beyond
regulating the police. Whether practical or abstract, these concerns will be
easily swept aside by departments eager to be part of the next technological
wave in policing.

   First, many of these new technologies have been developed by private
companies whose motivations and concerns may not always be consonant with those
of a public police department. For instance, IBM has spent billions acquiring
data analytics companies in order to develop and market predictive tools to the
police. n199 Although PredPol was initially developed by academics, it is now a
for-profit company. n200 Similarly, Microsoft - and the N.Y.P.D. - will profit
from every new police department that adopts a total domain awareness system.
n201 Future interest in the further analysis of DNA samples will also benefit
some private laboratories.

   Second, the introduction of new big data technologies requires attention not
only to appropriate regulation, but also to questions about how well these
privately developed tools actually help to reduce crime. New technologies
possess understandable appeal for departments seeking innovative crime fighting
strategies. New strategies lend themselves toward positive media attention in a
way that "a poorly attended community meeting in a church basement" does not.
n202 Yet, for-profit purveyors of big data products may not provide the best
objective assessment of their products. The desirability of these new
technologies should not steer attention away from questions about how well they
reduce crime and conserve limited public resources compared to traditional
methods.

   A final concern is much more fundamental. The reliance on big data  [*67]  by
the police also poses the risk that the very definition of policing may be
changing. The promise of big data is a vision of policing that is driven and
assessed by quantitative measurements. Indeed, those police chiefs that have
already embraced big data tout the potential to rely on numbers when budgets for
police departments are shrinking. n203 The problem, however, is that a
technocratic solution to crime is not the only objective of democratic policing.
n204

   Reducing crime is not the only job of the police. Policing as an institution
has never been amenable to a single objective, n205 and indeed over time its
aims have shifted. n206 What is clear, however, is that democratic policing aims
at more than mere crime control and, at its core, relies on skills that do not
always lend themselves to statistical analysis. No amount of data-driven
policing is likely to assuage communities soured by long histories of tension
with the police. Nor will demonstrations of little red boxes on a smartphone
necessarily justify to a community the need for a heavy-handed police presence.

   CONCLUSION

 The use of big data is likely to become an ordinary aspect of policing. The
application of artificial intelligence to crime data promises immediate and
tangible benefits. We can gain some real insights about how to direct police
resources efficiently and effectively in ways that intuition, tradition, and
limited information have been unavailing. At the same time, the reliance upon
artificial intelligence and the collection of vast amounts of information poses
some special challenges in the policing context. Courts and legislatures will
need to think of Fourth  [*68]  Amendment issues in new ways to adequately
protect notions of individual privacy.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Computer & Internet LawCriminal OffensesData Crimes & FraudCriminal Law &
ProcedureCriminal OffensesFraudComputer FraudGeneral OverviewGovernmentsLocal
GovernmentsPolice Power

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Jeremy Gorner, Chicago Police Use "Heat List' as Strategy to Prevent
Violence, Chi. Trib. (Aug. 21, 2013),
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2013-08-21/news/ct-met-heat-list-20130821_1_
chicago-police-commander-andrew-papachristos-heat-list.





n2.  Michael Bess, Assessing the Impact of Home Foreclosures in Charlotte
Neighborhoods, Geography & Pub. Safety, Oct. 2008, at 2, 2.





n3.  Joe Coscarelli, The NYPD's Domain Awareness System is Watching You, N.Y.
Mag. (Aug. 9, 2012, 5:50 AM),
http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2012/08/nypd-domain-awareness-system-micros
oft-is-watching-you.html.





n4.  See Erica Goode, Sending the Police Before There's a Crime, N.Y. Times
(Aug. 15, 2011), http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/16/us/16police.html.





n5.  Somini Sengupta, In Hot Pursuit of Numbers to Ward Off Crime, N.Y. Times
(June 19, 2013, 10:48 PM),
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/06/19/in-hot-pursuit-of-numbers-to-ward-off-c
rime/?_r=0.





n6.  See, e.g., TechAmerica Found., Demystifying Big Data: A Practical Guide to
Transforming the Business of Government 12-15 (2012) (describing potential uses
of big data in healthcare, transportation, education, fraud detection, cyber
security, and weather).





n7.  See Mark H. Haller, Historical Roots of Police Behavior: Chicago,
1890-1925, 10 L. & Soc'y Rev. 303, 303 (1976).





n8.  Beth Pearsall, Predictive Policing: The Future of Law Enforcement?, Nat'l
Inst. Just. J., June 2010, at 16, 16, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/230414.pdf (describing its development as
having "the potential to transform law enforcement").





n9.  See Michael Scherer, Inside the Secret World of the Data Crunchers Who
Helped Obama Win, Time (Nov. 7, 2012),
http://swampland.time.com/2012/11/07/inside-the-secret-world-of-quants-and-data-
crunchers-who-helped-obama-win/print/ (quoting one Obama campaign official as
saying, "We ran the election 66,000 times every night" in computer simulations).





n10.  See, e.g., Viktor Mayer-Schonberger & Kenneth Cukier, Big Data: A
Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work, and Think 4-5 (2013)
(describing development of Farecast, which analyzes data from billions of flight
price records to predict airline ticket price variation).





n11.  See id. at 37-39 (describing language translation success of Google using
trillion word data set).





n12.  See, e.g., Adam Frank, Big Data Is the Steam Engine of Our Time, NPR (Mar.
12, 2013, 12:28 PM),
http://www.npr.org/blogs/13.7/2013/03/12/174028759/big-data-is-the-steam-engine-
of-our-time ("Big Data may be the steam engine of our time.").





n13.  Charles Duhigg, How Companies Learn Your Secrets, N.Y. Times (Feb. 16,
2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/19/magazine/shopping-habits.html?pagewanted=1
("Almost every major retailer, from grocery chains to investment banks to the
U.S. Postal Service, has a "predictive analytics' department ... .").





n14.  See id.





n15.  See id.





n16.  Constance L. Hays, What Wal-Mart Knows About Customers' Habits, N.Y. Times
(Nov. 14, 2004),
http://www.nytimes.com/2004/11/14/business/yourmoney/14wal.html.





n17.  See, e.g., Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 455-58, 465-66 (1928);
see also Photo Gallery, PBS,
http://www.pbs.org/kenburns/prohibition/media_detail/208 2733861-olmstead/ (last
visited Feb. 17, 2014) (noting that Roy Olmstead was nicknamed the "King of
Puget Sound Bootleggers").





n18.  See, e.g., Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 348, 358-59 (1967)
(illegal wagering).





n19.  See, e.g., Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 29-33, 40 (2001).





n20.  In United States v. Jones, __U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012), the Supreme
Court held that the government's attachment of a GPS tracking device on the
defendant's car required a warrant. Id. at 954. On remand, the government argued
that cell site data could be relied upon without a warrant, which the district
court permitted under the good faith exception to the exclusionary rule. See
United States v. Jones, Crim. Action No. 05-0386 (ESH) (D.D.C. Dec. 14, 2012),
available at
https://ecf.dcd.uscourts.gov/cgi-bin/show_public_doc?2005cr0386-658.





n21.  Cf. Samuel Walker, "Broken Windows" and Fractured History: The Use and
Misuse of History in Recent Police Patrol Analysis, 1 Just. Q. 75, 80 (1984)
("The mid-century revolution in American policing involved not just the patrol
car but the car in conjunction with the telephone and the two-way radio.").





n22.  John Villasenor, Brookings Institute, Recording Everything: Digital
Storage as an Enabler of Authoritarian Governments 1 (Dec. 14, 2011), available
at http://www.brookings.edu/<diff>/media/research/files/paper
s/2011/12/14%20digital%20storage%20villasenor/1214_digit
al_storage_villasenor.pdf.





n23.  A large literature has developed that critiques the limitations of modern
search and seizure law as applied to computer software and hardware, the
internet, new surveillance technologies, etc. See, e.g., Orin S. Kerr, The
Fourth Amendment and New Technologies: Constitutional Myths and the Case for
Caution, 102 Mich. L. Rev. 801, 803 n.7 (2004) (collecting sources espousing
this view); Dan Solove, Digital Dossiers and the Dissipation of Fourth Amendment
Privacy, 75 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1083, 1086-87 (2002) (arguing that the current view
on Fourth Amendment privacy "is not responsive to life in the modern Information
Age").





n24.  See, e.g., Steve Lohr, How Big Data Became So Big, N.Y. Times (Aug. 11,
2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/12/business/how-big-data-became-so-big-unboxed.ht
ml?smid=pl-share ("Big Data is a shorthand label that typically means applying
the tools of artificial intelligence, like machine learning, to vast new troves
of data beyond that captured in standard databases.").





n25.  Here, too, there are some who dispute whether big data is a new phenomenon
at all. See, e.g., Samuel Arbesman, Five Myths About Big Data, Wash. Post (Aug.
16, 2013),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/five-myths-about-big-data/2013/08/15/64a0
dd0a-e044-11e2-963a- 72d740e88c12_story.html (arguing that "big data has been
around for a long time").





n26.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 8-11 (describing vast
quantities of digitized data available today).





n27.  See Kenneth Neil Cukier & Viktor Mayer-Schoenberger, The Rise of Big Data:
How It's Changing the Way We Think About the World, Foreign Aff., May-June 2013,
at 28, 28.





n28.  Albert Pimental, Big Data: The Hidden Opportunity, Forbes (May 1, 2012),
http://www.forbes.com/sites/ciocentral/2012/05/01/big-data-the-hidden-opportunit
y/. One zettabyte is 10 to the power of 21 bytes. This is equivalent to the
amount of data which could fill 250 billion DVDs. Melody Kramer, The NSA Data:
Where Does It Go?, Nat'l Geographic (June 12, 2013),
http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2013/06/130612-nsa-utah-data-center-stor
age-zettabyte-snowden/.





n29.  IBM, IBM Big Data Success Stories 1 (2011), available at
http://public.dhe.ibm.com/
software/data/sw-library/big-data/ibm-big-data-success.pdf.





n30.  Google, Eric Schmidt at Technomy, YouTube (Aug. 4, 2010),
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UAcCIsrAq70.





n31.  The largest current recognized number is a yottabye: a digit with
twenty-four zeros. See Charles Walford, Information Overload: There Is So Much
Data Stored in the World That We May Run Out of Ways to Quantify It, Daily Mail
(Dec. 12, 2012), http://www.dailymail.co.uk/
sciencetech/article-2247081/There-soon-words-data-stored-world.html.





n32.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 83-97 (discussing the
"datafication of everything").





n33.  UPS, for example uses telematics sensors in more than 46,000 vehicles;
these tell the company about the speed, direction, braking, and drive train
performance of their trucks. See What is Big Data?, SAS,
http://www.sas.com/big-data/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n34.  Lauren Frayer, High-Tech Sensors Help Old Port City Leap Into Smart
Future, NPR (June 4, 2013, 3:27 AM),
http://www.npr.org/blogs/parallels/2013/06/04/188370672/Sensors
-Transform-Old-Spanish-Port-Into-New-Smart-City.





n35.  Indeed, a series of investigative reports by the New York Times has
revealed the relatively little-known environmental costs of huge data centers.
See, e.g., James Glanz, Power, Pollution and the Internet, N.Y. Times (Sept. 22,
2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/23/technology/data-centers-waste-vast-amounts-of-
energy-belying-industry-image.html (quoting an industry executive as describing
an "industry dirty secret"); James Glanz, Data Barns in a Farm Town, Gobbling
Power and Flexing Muscle, N.Y. Times (Sept. 23, 2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/24/
technology/data-centers-in-rural-washington-state-gobble-power.html?ref=us
(reporting on "sprawling and ubiquitous" "data barns").





n36.  See SAS, Big Data Meets Big Data Analytics 1 (2012), available at
http://www.sas.com /resources/whitepaper/wp_46345.pdf.





n37.  See Doug Beaver, 10 Billion Photos, Facebook (Oct. 14, 2008, 6:03 PM),
http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=30695603919.





n38.  Erin Allen, Update on the Twitter Archive at the Library of Congress,
Library of Congress Blog (Jan. 4, 2013),
http://blogs.loc.gov/loc/2013/01/update-on-the-twitter-archive-at-the-library-of
-congress/.





n39.  Mayer-Schonberger and Cukier discuss how the combination of cheap and easy
data storage with powerful analytic technology makes it possible to constantly
store data for purposes that may not be immediately apparent. See
Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 98-106.





n40.  See id. at 26 ("In many areas ... a shift is taking place from collecting
some data to gathering as much as possible, and if feasible, getting everything:
N = all.").





n41.  See id. at 122 ("The crux of data's worth is its seemingly unlimited
potential for reuse: its option value.").





n42.  Victor Luckerson, What the Library of Congress Plans to Do with All Your
Tweets, Time (Feb. 25, 2013),
http://business.time.com/2013/02/25/what-the-library-of-congress-plans-to-do-wit
h-all-your-tweets/.





n43.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 61 ("In a small-data
world, because so little data tended to be available, both causal investigations
and correlation analysis began with a hypothesis, which was then tested to be
either falsified or verified... . Today, with so much data around and more to
come, such hypotheses are no longer crucial for correlational analysis.").





n44.  See id. at 2.





n45.  See id.; see also Miguel Helft, Google Uses Searches to Track Flu's
Spread, N.Y. Times (Nov. 11, 2008),
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/12/technology/internet/12flu.html (reporting that
Google found "a strong correlation" between five years of its data and the
C.D.C.'s reports of flu).





n46.  Explore Flu Trends - United States, Google.org,
http://www.google.org/flutrends/us/#US (last visited Feb. 17, 2014). Google has
done the same with dengue trends around the world. Dengue Trends Around the
World, Google.org, http://www.google.org/denguetrends/intl/en_us/ (last visited
Feb. 17, 2014). The same approach has been taken with information generated by
Twitter. See Adam Sadilek et al., Ass'n for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence, Modeling Spread of Disease from Social Interactions (2012),
available at http://
www.cs.rochester.edu/<diff>sadilek/publications/Sadilek-Kautz-Silenzio_Modeling-
Spread-of-Disease-from-Social- Interactions_ICWSM-12.pdf (last visited Feb. 17,
2014). Such big data analysis is not perfect, however. Google's algorithms were
grossly inaccurate in winter of 2012-13 and predicted far more cases than the
CDC counted. Part of the problem may be that the flu gained widespread media
attention in 2012, which then increased the use of the same search terms that
had better predictive value before. See Nick Bilton, Disruption, Data Without
Context Tells a Misleading Story, N.Y. Times (Feb. 23, 2013),
http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/02/24/disruptions-google-flu-trends-shows-pro
blems-of-big-data-without-context/; Declan Butler, When Google Got Flu Wrong,
494 Nature 155, 155-56 (2013), available at
http://www.nature.com/news/when-google-got-flu-wrong-1.12413.





n47.  Cf. Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 59 ("The correlations
show what, not why, but ... knowing what is often good enough.") (emphasis in
original).





n48.  See Jennifer Bachner, Predictive Policing: Preventing Crime with Data and
Analytics 14 (2013), available at
http://www.businessofgovernment.org/sites/default/files/
Predictive%20Policing.pdf ("The fundamental notion underlying the theory and
practice of predictive policing is that we can make probabilistic inferences
about future criminal activity based on existing data.").





n49.  See id. at 7 (observing that "quantitative crime analysis spans
centuries").





n50.  See id. at 16.





n51.  See Walter L. Perry et al., Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime
Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations 2 (2013) ("The use of statistical and
geospatial analyses to forecast crime levels has been around for decades.");
Pearsall, supra note 8, at 18 (citing one police chief's skepticism that
predictive policing is a break from older trends in intelligence based
policing).





n52.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 6, 9 (noting that "predictive policing is
viewed as one pillar of intelligence-led policing").





n53.  Bratton himself chronicled his tenure as Commissioner in his memoir The
Turnaround. See William Bratton with Peter Knobler, The Turnaround: How
America's Top Cop Reversed the Crime Epidemic (1998).





n54.  There are numerous accounts of the perceived innovation and success of the
N.Y.P.D. during the 1990s. See, e.g., Vincent E. Henry, The CompStat Paradigm:
Management Accountability in Policing, Business and the Public Sector 17-18
(2003) (describing CompStat meetings as "intensive monthly performance
evaluations for every commander of practically every operational unit in the
agency"); Eli B. Silverman, NYPD Battles Crime: Innovative Strategies in
Policing 97-124 (1999) (describing development of CompStat meetings). In fact,
some credit Bratton for thinking of a predictive policing model. See Perry et
al., supra note 51, at 4.





n55.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 9 (noting CompStat "has been adopted by
nearly every law enforcement agency in the country").





n56. " Broken windows" policing generally refers to a style of policing that
focuses on minor offense enforcement on the assumption that such signs of
disorder, if left unchecked, will lead to more serious crimes. See James Q.
Wilson & George L. Kelling, Broken Windows: The Police and Neighborhood Safety,
Atlantic Monthly, Mar. 1982, at 29, available at
http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/1982/03/broken-windows/304465/.





n57.  More recently, however, the credit given to the use of CompStat by the
N.Y.P.D. has been criticized. See, e.g., David F. Greenberg, Studying New York
City's Crime Decline: Methodological Issues, 31 Just. Q. 154, 182 (2013)
(concluding that there is an "absence of evidence pointing to large crime
prevention effects in New York from [tactics including] CompStat ... ."). And
the stop and frisk policies of the N.Y.P.D. were eventually held to be
unconstitutional. See Floyd v. City of New York, No. 08 Civ. 1034(SAS), 2013 WL
4046209 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 12, 2013).





n58.  Of course, even knowing about these high crime areas might suggest future
criminal activity taking place in the same place, but the identification of
these areas does not involve prediction specifically. See Andrew Guthrie
Ferguson, Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion, 62 Emory L.J. 259, 274
(2012).





n59.  See, e.g., Perry et al., supra note 51, at 2 ("Criminals tend to operate
in their comfort zone. That is, they tend to commit the type of crimes that they
have committed successfully in the past, generally close to the same time and
location.").





n60.  Anthony A. Braga et al., The Relevance of Micro Places to Citywide Robbery
Trends: A Longitudinal Analysis of Robbery Incidents at Street Corners and Block
Faces in Boston, 48 J. Res. Crime & Delinq. 7, 10 (2011) (citing David L.
Weisburd et al., Trajectories of Crime at Places: A Longitudinal Study of Street
Segments in the City of Seattle, 42 Criminology 283 (2004)).





n61.  See, e.g., Martin Kaste, Can Software That Predicts Crime Pass
Constitutional Muster?, NPR (July 26, 2013, 4:55 PM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/07/26/205835674/can-software-that-predicts-crime-pass-co
nstitutional-muster (noting that the software creator "wanted to see if
computers could model future crime the same way they model earthquake
aftershocks. Turns out they can."). The software, designed by mathematicians and
social scientists at UCLA, Santa Clara University, and U.C. Irvine, is called
PredPol and is marketed to police departments. See Policing Meets Big Data,
Predpol, http://www.predpol.com/about/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n62.  See Zach Friend, Predictive Policing: Using Technology to Reduce Crime,
FBI Law Enforcement Bull. (Apr. 9, 2013),
http://www.fbi.gov/stats-services/publications/law-enforcement-bulletin/2013/Apr
il/predictive-policing-using-technology-to- reduce-crime.





n63.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 25.





n64.  See id. at 26. At least one investigative article has raised doubts,
however, as to whether PredPol actually delivers on its claims about reducing
crime. See Darwin Bond-Graham & Ali Winston, All Tomorrow's Crimes: The Future
of Policing Looks a Lot Like Good Branding, S.F. Weekly (Oct. 30, 2013),
http://www.sfweekly.com/2013-10-30/news/predpol-sfpd-predictive-policing
-compstat-lapd/full/ (suggesting that PredPol's creators have been "most
successful [with] its marketing algorithms").





n65.  See, e.g., David Talbot, L.A. Cops Embrace Crime-Predicting Algorithm, MIT
Tech. Rev. (July 2, 2012),
http://www.technologyreview.com/news/428354/la-cops-embrace-crime-predicting-alg
orithm/ (describing successful use of Predpol software in Foothill precinct of
Los Angeles); Sengupta, supra note 5 (describing Seattle Police Department's use
of PredPol software for property crimes).





n66.  Looking Ahead, Not in the Rear View Mirror, Predpol,
http://www.predpol.com/technology/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n67.  See, e.g., Leslie W. Kennedy et al., Risk Clusters, Hotspots, and Spatial
Intelligence: Risk Terrain Modeling as an Algorithm for Police Resource
Allocations, 27 J. Quantitative Criminology 339, 342-43 (2011).





n68.  See id. at 343.





n69.  Jeffrey S. Paul & Thomas M. Joiner, Integration of Centralized
Intelligence with Geographic Information Systems: A Countywide Initiative,
Geography & Pub. Safety, Oct. 2011, at 5, 7.





n70.  See id. at 7 (noting that since 2007, when the county created an
intelligence crime task force, "the total crime index in the county has
decreased by 11%, violent crime by 21%, and property crime by 7%").





n71.  IBM offers, for instance, a social media analytics tool that police
departments can use to monitor Facebook and Twitter activity. See Somini
Sengupta, Privacy Fears Grow as Cities Increase Surveillance, N.Y. Times (Oct.
13, 2013), http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/14/
technology/privacy-fears-as-surveillance-grows-in-cities.html.





n72.  Social network analysis should not be confused with police surveillance
and infiltration of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, which have
also proven to be valuable investigative tools.





n73.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 22-23.





n74.  See Philip Ball, Unmasking Organised Crime Networks with Data, BBC (July
9, 2013),
http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20130709-unmask-crime-networks-with-data/1.





n75.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 23.





n76.  Aaron Lester, Police Clicking into Crimes Using New Software, Boston Globe
(Mar. 18, 2013),
http://www.bostonglobe.com/business/2013/03/17/police-intelligence-one-click-awa
y/ DzzDbrwdiNkjNMA1159ybM/"story.html (describing provisional use of new Nucleik
software within Springfield, Massachusetts gang unit).





n77.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 23.





n78.  See Lester, supra note 76.





n79.  See Ball, supra note 74.





n80.  See Bachner, supra note 48, at 22-24.





n81.  See generally id.





n82.  See Ball, supra note 74.





n83.  Cf. Jack M. Balkin, The Constitution in the National Surveillance State,
93 Minn. L. Rev. 1, 3 (2008) ("Government's increasing use of surveillance and
data mining is a predictable result of accelerating developments in information
technology.").





n84.  Joseph Goldstein, Weekly Police Briefing Offers Snapshot of Department and
Its Leader, N.Y. Times (Feb. 10, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/11/nyregion/weekly-briefing-provides-lengthy-snap
shot-of-kelly-and-nypd.html.





n85.  Matt Sledge, NYPD License Plate Readers Will Be Able to Track Every Car
Entering Manhattan, Huffington Post (Mar. 13, 2013, 5:08 PM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/
2013/03/13/nypd-license-plate-readers_n_2869627.html.





n86.  Cara Buckley, New York Plans Surveillance Veil for Downtown, N.Y. Times
(July 9, 2007), http://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/09/nyregion/09ring.html; Mark
Duell, The Extraordinary "Ring of Steel' Around Ground Zero: NYPD Steps Up Dirty
Bomb Threat Protection with $ 200M Project, Daily Mail (July 29, 2011),
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2020266/NYPD-steps-dirty-bomb-radiation-
threat-protection-200m-Manhattan- project.html.





n87.  Al Baker, Camera Scans of Car Plates Are Reshaping Police Inquiries, N.Y.
Times (Apr. 11, 2011),
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/04/12/nyregion/12plates.html?pagewa nted=all&_r=0
(observing that in 2011, the N.Y.P.D. had 238 license plate readers, 130 of them
mobile). In March 2013, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly announced plans to
install license plate readers in every lane of traffic that serve as exists and
entrances to Manhattan, all of which would be linked to the domain awareness
system. See Sledge, supra note 85.





n88.  Two thousand belt-mounted mobile radiation detectors are carried by
N.Y.P.D. officers. See Duell, supra note 86. The N.Y.P.D. also plans to use very
sensitive radiation scanners to detect the presence of concealed weapons on
individuals in high crime areas. See Slate V Staff, NYPD Plans Public Radiation
Scanners to Detect Guns, Slate (Jan. 24, 2013), http://www.slate.com/blogs/
trending/2013/01/24/nypd_radiation_scanners_ gun_detectors_to_be_set_up
_in_public_spaces.html.





n89.  See Sledge, supra note 85.





n90.  Duell, supra note 86.





n91.  Id.





n92.  See, e.g., Press Release, Mayor Bloomberg, Police Commissioner Kelly and
Microsoft Unveil New, State-of-the-Art Law Enforcement Technology That
Aggregates and Analyzes Existing Public Safety Data in Real Time to Provide a
Comprehensive View of Potential Threats and Criminal Activity (Aug. 8, 2012),
available at http://www.nyc.gov/portal/site/nycgov/
menuitem.c0935b9a57bb4ef3daf2f1c701c789a0/index.jsp?pageID=mayo
r_press_release&catID=1194&doc_nam
e=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nyc.gov%2Fhtml%2Fom%2Fhtml%2F2012b%2Fpr291-12.html&cc=unused1
978&rc=1194&ndi=1.





n93.  Rocco Paranscandola & Tina Moore, NYPD Unveils New $ 40 Million Super
Computer System that Uses Data from Network of Cameras, License Plate Readers
and Crime Reports, N.Y. Daily News (Aug. 8, 2012, 8:50 PM),
http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/nypd-unveils-new-40-million-super-computer-s
ystem-data-network-
cameras-license-plate-readers-crime-reports-article-1.1132135.





n94.  See Michael Schwirtz, After Boston Bombings, New York Police Plan Tight
Security at Marathon, N.Y. Times (Nov. 1, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/02/sports/video-surveillance-to-be-a-key-componen
t-of-marathon- security.html?_r=0.





n95.  Forbes named Oakland the third most dangerous city in America in 2012 with
a population between 100,000 and 499,000. See The 10 Most Dangerous U.S. Cities,
Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/pictures/mlj45jggj/3-oakland/ (last visited Feb.
17, 2014) (stating that Oakland's violent crime rate is "1,683 per 100,000
residents").





n96.  The project was initially sought by the Port of Oakland, but expanded to
include the city of Oakland itself. See Steven Tavares, Big Brother in Oakland?
There Might Be an App Coming For That, EBCitizen (July 10, 2013),
http://www.ebcitizen.com/2013/07/big-brother-in-oakland-there-might-be.html?utm_
source=feedburner&utm_medium=email &utm_campaign=Feed%3A+
EastbaycitizenBreakingNewsPoliticsLife+%28EastBayCitizen+%7C+Br
eaking+News+Politics+Life%29.





n97.  Sengupta, supra note 71.





n98.  Ali Winston, Oakland Surveillance Center Raises Concerns, SFGate (July 17,
2013, 9:46 PM),
http://www.sfgate.com/crime/article/Oakland-surveillance-center-raises-concerns-
4671708.php. In February 2014, however, Oakland officials delayed voting on a
contract to build its DAS after local residents raised concerns about privacy.
See Associated Press, Oakland Delays Vote on Surveillance System, Wash. Times
(Feb. 19, 2014), http://www.washingtontimes.com/
news/2014/feb/19/oakland-delays-vote-on-surveillance-system/.





n99.  See CODIS - NDIS Statistics, FBI,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/lab/biometric-analysis/codis/ ndis-statistics (last
visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n100.  See Solomon Moore, F.B.I. and States Vastly Expand DNA Databases, N.Y.
Times (Apr. 18, 2009), http://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/19/us/19DNA.html (noting
that CODIS is "the largest [database] in the world"). The U.K., however, has the
distinction of having the largest portion of its population - about ten percent
- in its DNA database. See, e.g., Jill Lawless, Spread of DNA Databases Sparks
Ethical Concerns, Associated Press (July 12, 2013, 8:50 AM),
http://bigstory.ap.org/article/spread-dna-databases-sparks-ethical-concerns.





n101.  Although CODIS specifically refers to the software that links DNA
databases around the country for information sharing purposes, it is also used
generically as a term to describe the American DNA database system more
generally. See Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the CODIS Program and the
National DNA Index System, FBI,
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/lab/biometric-analysis/codis/codis-and-ndis-fact-she
et (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n102.  See, e.g., id. (describing how CODIS would be used in a hypothetical
sexual assault case). CODIS permits states and the federal government to upload
and compare DNA profiles on the National DNA Index System (NDIS). See id. While
state laws specify the types of profiles that can be included in state
databases, federal law determines which DNA profiles can be stored and shared at
the national level. See 42 U.S.C. § 14132(a) (2006). Many resources provide
helpful explanatory information on DNA and how it is used in criminal
investigations. E.g., Sheldon Krimsky & Tania Simoncelli, Genetic Justice: DNA
Data Banks, Criminal Investigations, and Civil Liberties 3-27 (2010); DNA
Evidence Basics, Nat'l Inst. Just. (Aug. 9, 2012),
http://www.nij.gov/topics/forensics/evidence/dna/basics/pages/w elcome.aspx.





n103.  See Nathan James, Cong. Research Serv., R41800, DNA Testing in Criminal
Justice: Background, Current Law, Grants, and Issues 7 (2012).





n104.  See id.





n105.  New York DNA Database: Governor Cuomo Signs "All Crimes' DNA Testing Into
Law, Huffington post (Mar. 3, 2012, 10:22 AM),
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/20/new-york-dna-database-governor-cuomo-al
l-crimes-dna- testing_n_1366624.html.





n106.  See id. (noting minor exemption "for those convicted of possession of a
small amount of marijuana as long as they have no prior convictions").





n107.  See Julie Samuels et al., Collecting DNA From Arrestees: Implementation
Lessons, Nat'l Inst. Just. J., June 2012, at 18, 19, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/238484.pdf.





n108.  See DNA Arrestee Laws, Nat'l Conference of St. Legislatures,
http://www.ncsl.org/ research/civil-and-criminal-justice/dna-arrestee-laws.aspx
(last visited Feb. 17, 2014) (reporting that in May 2013, Nevada became the most
recent state to require DNA samples from all felony arrestees).





n109. __ U.S.__, 133 S. Ct. 1958 (2013).





n110.  Id. at 1980.





n111.  The Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act provides federal funding for
those states that wish to establish arrestee DNA collection programs. See Katie
Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-253, § 3, 126 Stat.
2407 (2013). For further commentary on the decision, see Elizabeth E. Joh,
Maryland v. King: Policing and Genetic Privacy, 11 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 281
(2013).





n112.  The thirteen STR markers refer to the thirteen places on the human
chromosome where there is high variability. These identification markers provide
law enforcement with a unique identifier for everyone who provides a DNA sample.
See The FBI and DNA, FBI (Nov. 28, 2011),
http://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/2011/november/dna_112811.





n113.  See, e.g., Erin Murphy, Relative Doubt: Familial Searches of DNA
Databases, 109 Mich. L. Rev. 291, 297-300 (2010) (describing mechanics of
familial searches). How those genetically related to the sought after offender
turn up depends on a number of factors, including whether a jurisdiction
intentionally searches the database for partial matches or whether such matches
turn up as the result of a search because the parameters of the search permitted
less than an identical match between the sample and the DNA profile. See id. at
299.





n114.  Id. at 297-98.





n115.  See id. at 296. In 2008, California became the first state to formally
authorize intentional partial matches, or "familial" searches. Id. at 293.





n116.  Matching STRs on the Y chromosomes, in addition to a partial match on the
CODIS loci, can show how closely related two men are through their male
ancestors. This Y-STR typing can show whether two men share the same genetic
father or paternal grandfather. See, e.g., Michael Chamberlain, Familial DNA
Searching: A Proponent's Perspective, Crim. Just., Spring 2012, at 18, available
at http://www.americanbar.org/content/dam/aba/publications/cr iminal_justice_
magazine/sp12_dna_search_proponents.authch eckdam.pdf (explaining basics of
California familial match policy).





n117.  See supra Part I.





n118.  See, e.g., Murphy, supra note 113, at 304 ("Familial searches should be
forbidden because they embody the very presumptions that our constitutional and
evidentiary rules have long endeavored to counteract: guilt by association,
racial discrimination, propensity, and even biological determinism. They are
akin to adopting a policy to collect and store the DNA of otherwise
database-ineligible persons, solely because they share a blood relation with a
convicted person ... ."); Sonia M. Suter, All in the Family: Privacy and DNA
Familial Searching, 23 Harv. J.L. & Tech. 309, 368-70 (2010).





n119.  See, e.g., David Lazer & Viktor Mayer-Schonberger, Statutory Frameworks
for Regulating Information Flows: Drawing Lessons for the DNA Data Banks from
Other Government Data Systems, 34 J.L. Med. & Ethics 366, 372 (2006).





n120.  See, e.g., Moore, supra note 100 (describing CODIS profile as "numerical
sequence").





n121.  See, e.g., Maryland v. King, __U.S.__, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1979 (2013)
(observing that "the CODIS loci come from noncoding parts of the DNA that do not
reveal the genetic traits of the arrestee").





n122.  See, e.g., Suter, supra note 118, at 331 ("Courts often minimize or fail
to address the fact that the collection of DNA samples involves two privacy
intrusions: the actual collection of biological samples and the retention of
samples that contain one's genetic information.").





n123.  Scholars and judges have expressed a wide range of opinions on whether
privacy interests are truly threatened by DNA samples held by the government.
Compare N. Van Camp & K. Dierickx, The Retention of Forensic DNA Samples: A
Socio-Ethical Evaluation of Current Practices in the EU, 34 J. Med. Ethics 606,
606 (2008), and Tania Simoncelli & Barry Steinhardt, California's Proposition
69: A Dangerous Precedent for Criminal DNA Databases, 33 J.L. Med. & Ethics 279,
284 (2005) ("While law enforcement authorities would like us to believe that the
samples will never be used for anything besides catching criminals, an unlimited
span of improper uses remain plausible so long as those samples are retained."),
and Suter, supra note 118, at 335 ("We should be wary of [sample retention]
given its substantial threat to privacy and civil liberties."), with David H.
Kaye, A Fourth Amendment Theory for Arrestee DNA and Other Biometric Databases,
15 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 1095, 1155-58 (2013) (expressing extreme skepticism that
DNA samples will ever be used beyond biometric identification).





n124.  Lazer & Mayer-Schonberger, supra note 119, at 372 (emphasis added); see
also Lawless, supra note 100 (quoting one supporter of genetic databases as
acknowledging "there is an argument to be made that because that biological
sample exists, the government could go back and do other things with it that are
not authorized by the law").





n125.  These legal barriers, however, do not apply to the emerging issue of
"offline" or "rogue" DNA databases that are being established by local law
enforcement agencies that have no intention of sharing the information with
CODIS. See, e.g., Joseph Goldstein, Police Agencies Are Assembling Records of
DNA, N.Y. Times, June 13, 2013, at A1 ("These local databases operate under
their own rules, providing the police much more leeway than state and federal
regulations.").





n126.  See, e.g., Sarah B. Berson, Debating DNA Collection, Nat'l Inst. Just.
J., Nov. 2009, at 9, 11, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/228383.pdf ("State laws ... vary with regard
to how samples may be used beyond law enforcement and quality control
purposes.").





n127.  See 42 U.S.C. § 14132(b)(3) (2006). Some have suggested, however, that a
"criminal justice purpose" could be broadly construed to permit law enforcement
agencies to analyze samples for a variety of purposes beyond simple matches to
crime scene evidence. See, e.g., Suter, supra note 118, at 336.





n128.  See, e.g., James, supra note 103, at 5; Mark A. Rothstein & Meghan K.
Talbott, The Expanding Use of DNA in Law Enforcement: What Role for Privacy?, 34
J.L. Med. & Ethics 153, 158 (2006) ("There is no national policy on sample
retention, but in almost every state the samples are retained indefinitely.").
Many of these observations have relied upon a 2005 study by the American Society
of Law, Medicine and Ethics. See Seth Axelrad, Am. Soc'y of L., Med. & Ethics,
Survey of State DNA Database Statutes, http://www.aslme.org/dna_04/grid/
guide.pdf (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n129.  M. Dawn Herkenham, Retention of Offender DNA Samples Necessary to Ensure
and Monitor Quality of Forensic DNA Efforts: Appropriate Safeguards Exist to
Protect the DNA Samples from Misuse, 34 J.L. Med. & Ethics 380, 381-82 (2006)
(Herkenham was the chief of the FBI unit responsible for implementing the NDIS);
see also John M. Butler, Fundamentals of Forensic DNA Typing 280-81 (2009)
(noting that samples should be preserved for quality control and for "technology
advancements in the future" regarding new genetic markers or assays).





n130.  In the years since the human genome was first sequenced, the cost of
sequencing has fallen dramatically, from nearly $ 100 million in 2001 to less
than $ 6,000 in 2013. The National Human Genome Research Institute tracks the
costs of genome sequencing. See K.A. Wetterstrand, DNA Sequencing Costs: Data
from the NHGRI Genome Sequencing Program (GSP), Nat'l Human Genome Res. Inst.,
http://www.genome.gov/sequencingcosts/ (last visited Feb. 17, 2014).





n131.  See, e.g., Phil Reilly, Legal and Public Policy Issues in DNA Forensics,
2 Nature Reviews Genetics 313, 317 (2001) (suggesting establishment of "a
permanent commission to oversee [DNA databanks], which could review and monitor
all requests to use samples for purposes other than forensic identification").





n132.  See, e.g., Perry et al., supra note 51, at 115-16 ("Although much of news
coverage promotes the meme that predictive policing is a crystal ball, these
algorithms simply predict risks.").





n133.  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 20-21 (1968).





n134.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) ("Reasonable suspicion ... is
dependent upon both the content of information possessed by police and its
degree of reliability. Both factors - quantity and quality - are considered in
the "totality of the circumstances - the whole picture' that must be taken into
account when evaluating whether there is reasonable suspicion." (citation
omitted)).





n135.  Cf. United States v. Ventresca, 380 U.S. 102, 111 (1965) ("Observations
of fellow officers of the Government engaged in a common investigation are
plainly a reliable basis for a warrant applied for by one of their number.").





n136.  Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 244-46 (1983).





n137.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124 (2000).





n138.  See, e.g., Gates, 462 U.S. at 245-46 (noting that anonymous tip
"contained a range of details relating ... to future actions of third parties
ordinarily not easily predicted"); Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 271 (2000)
(noting that the tip in the case "provided no predictive information and
therefore left the police without means to test the informant's knowledge or
credibility"); 2 Wayne R. LaFave, Search & Seizure § 3.3f (5th ed. 2012) ("It
seems wise in light of subsequent events to read Gates to mean that
corroboration of part of an anonymous informant's information will constitute a
sufficient substitute for directly-established veracity and basis of knowledge
only if the corroborated events are in and of themselves quite suspicious.").





n139.  Professor Andrew Ferguson was among the first to recognize the Fourth
Amendment challenges raised by the adoption of predictive policing programs. See
Ferguson, supra note 58, at 305-12 (discussing these analogies).





n140.  See id. at 309 (citing example).





n141.  Because such programs only make predictions about areas where crime is
likely to happen, it would seem more difficult to justify probable cause in the
predictive policing analysis, although certainly many stops can ripen into full
blown arrests once more information about the suspect is made known to the
police during the course of a stop.





n142.  See Ferguson, supra note 58, at 306-07.





n143.  See id. at 310 (observing that "a common theme in the Fourth Amendment"
analysis of reasonable suspicion is "corroboration of individual actions").





n144.  While the Court in Illinois v. Gates adopted a totality of the
circumstances tests for probable cause, it nevertheless reaffirmed that these
factors continued to be "all highly relevant" and "should be understood [to]
illuminate the commonsense, practical question" of probable cause. See 462 U.S.
213, 230 (1983). The same can be said of the reasonable suspicion standard as
well. See Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 330 (1990) ("Reasonable suspicion is a
less demanding standard than probable cause not only in the sense that
reasonable suspicion can be established with information that is different in
quantity or content than that required to establish probable cause, but also in
the sense that reasonable suspicion can arise from information that is less
reliable than that required to show probable cause.").





n145.  Cf. Ferguson, supra note 58, at 307 (noting that "an objective,
well-functioning computer program seems more reliable than your typical police
informant").





n146.  See, e.g., United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981) ("[In an
investigative detention] officers must have a particularized and objective basis
for suspecting the particular person stopped of criminal activity.").





n147.  The tip that led to the investigation of Lance and Sue Gates was
allegedly given by Sue Gates's hairdresser, annoyed with Sue's boasting. Thomas
Y. Davies, The Supreme Court Giveth and the Supreme Court Taketh Away: The
Century of Fourth Amendment "Search and Seizure' Doctrine, 100 J. Crim. L. &
Criminology 933, 1005 n.383 (2010). On the problems raised by the "informant
institution," see generally Alexandra Natapoff, Snitching: The Institutional and
Communal Consequences, 73 U. Cin. L. Rev. 645 (2004).





n148.  See, e.g., Andrew Guthrie Ferguson & Damien Bernache, The "High-Crime
Area" Question: Requiring Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth
Amendment Reasonable Suspicion Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1607 (2008)
("The majority of jurisdictions ... have relied on an officer's testimony that
an area is a "high-crime area' without much analysis as to the basis of that
conclusion.").





n149.  I have argued elsewhere that an automated traffic enforcement system made
possible by a federal intelligent highway initiative could improve fairness and
reduce or eliminate racial profiling in traffic stops. See Elizabeth E. Joh,
Discretionless Policing: Technology and the Fourth Amendment, 95 Calif. L. Rev.
199 (2007).





n150.  Not only are there decisions about which model to use, each model itself
involves discretionary judgments about the type and amount of data to use, as
well as how to display it. See, e.g., Bachner, supra note 48, at 21 ("Just as
with the other clustering methods, the final map is sensitive to analyst
judgment.").





n151.  Measures of crime based on arrest rates - and particularly arrests in
minor offenses - are problematic because they represent the greatest exercise of
police discretion. See Wayne A. Logan, Policing Identity, 92 B.U. L. Rev. 1561,
1590 (2012). As a result, the resulting data may often reflect racial biases in
policing. See, e.g., Simon A. Cole, Fingerprint Identification and the Criminal
Justice System: Historical Lessons for the DNA Debate, in DNA and the Criminal
Justice System: The Technology of Justice 63, 82 (David Lazer ed., 2004)
(observing that criminal histories "appear to be pure, objective information,
when in fact they may reflect the prejudices of police or judicial
practitioners").





n152.  See, e.g., Predictive Policing: Don't Even Think About It, Economist
(July 20, 2013),
http://www.economist.com/news/briefing/21582042-it-getting-easier-foresee-wrongd
oing-and-spot-likely-wrongdoers-dont-even- think-about-it ("It matters ...
whether software crunches reports of crimes or arrests; if the latter, police
activity risks creating a vicious circle.").





n153.  The predictive software may drive the officer to use personal observation
to confirm the potentially suspicious behavior rather than independently assess
whether it is truly suspicious. Cf. Andrew E. Taslitz, Police Are People Too:
Cognitive Obstacles to, and Opportunities for, Police Getting the Individualized
Suspicion Judgment Right, 8 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 7, 29-30 (2010) (discussing
"continuum model" in which observer uses further assessment to confirm initial
judgments rather than challenging them).





n154.  A court may see the issue characterized as a kind of reliable tip -
albeit from a computer - that requires less police corroboration precisely
because of its reliability. See, e.g., Ferguson, supra note 58, at 308 (making
this observation).





n155.  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 361 (1967) (Harlan, J., concurring).





n156.  In fact, the problems of a mass surveillance system like the total domain
awareness program were anticipated years before such programs actually existed.
See, e.g., Robert H. Thornburg, Comment, Face Recognition Technology: The
Potential Orwellian Implications and Constitutionality of Current Uses Under the
Fourth Amendment, 20 J. Marshall J. Computer & Info. L. 321, 343 (2002) (noting
in 2002 that "a networked system could identify an individual in one location on
a specific date, and identify that same person at a different location
afterwards").





n157.  See, e.g., United States v. Dionisio, 410 U.S. 1, 14 (1973) ("The
physical characteristics of a person's voice, its tone and manner, as opposed to
the content of a specific conversation, are constantly exposed to the public...
. No person can have a reasonable expectation that others will not know the
sound of his voice, any more than he can reasonably expect that his face will be
a mystery to the world."); Davis v. Mississippi, 394 U.S. 721, 727 (1969)
("Fingerprinting involves none of the probing into an individual's private life
and thoughts that marks an interrogation or search."). Christopher Slobogin has
convincingly argued, however, that a right to anonymity - even in public -
should be protected by the Fourth Amendment. See Christopher Slobogin, Public
Privacy: Camera Surveillance of Public Places and the Right to Anonymity, 72
Miss. L.J. 213 (2002).





n158.  E.g., United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276, 285 (1983).





n159.  Id.





n160.  Id. ("A police car following [the defendant] at a distance throughout his
journey could have observed him leaving the public highway and arriving at the
cabin owned by respondent, with the drum of chloroform still in the car.").





n161.  See, e.g., People v. Weaver, 909 N.E.2d 1195, 1199 (N.Y. 2009) ("The
potential for a similar capture [to GPS technology] of information or "seeing'
by law enforcement would require, at a minimum, millions of additional police
officers and cameras on every street lamp.").





n162.  Certainly a number of lower court judges have expressed these concerns as
well.





n163. __ U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012).





n164.  Id. at 948.





n165.  See id. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring); id. at 964 (Alito, J.,
concurring in judgment).





n166.  The "mosaic theory" is generally attributed to the decision in United
States v. Maynard, 615 F.3d 544, 562 (D.C. Cir. 2010) ("Prolonged surveillance
reveals types of information not revealed by short-term surveillance, such as
what a person does repeatedly, what he does not do, and what he does ensemble.
These types of information can each reveal more about a person than does any
individual trip viewed in isolation."). See, e.g., Orin S. Kerr, The Mosaic
Theory of the Fourth Amendment, 111 Mich. L. Rev. 311, 326 (2012) ("Five
justices wrote or joined opinions that ... suggest that a majority of the Court
is ready to embrace some form of the D.C. Circuit's mosaic theory.").





n167.  United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276, 283-85 (1983).





n168.  See, e.g., Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 19 n.16 (1968) ("Obviously, not all
personal intercourse between policemen and citizens involves "seizures' of
persons. Only when the officer, by means of physical force or show of authority,
has in some way restrained the liberty of a citizen may we conclude that a
"seizure' has occurred.").





n169.  Michigan v. Chesternut, 486 U.S. 567, 576 (1988) ("The police [are] not
required to have "a particularized and objective basis for suspecting
[respondent] of criminal activity,' in order to pursue him." (quoting United
States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981))); cf. Oyler v. Boles, 368 U.S.
448, 456 (1962) ("The conscious exercise of some selectivity in [law]
enforcement is not in itself a federal constitutional violation.").





n170.  Stephen Rushin, The Judicial Response to Mass Police Surveillance, 2011
U. Ill. J.L. Tech. & Pol'y 281, 286.





n171.  See 1 LaFave, supra note 138, § 2.7(g) (raising similar concerns).





n172.  See United States v. Jones, __U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945, 956 (2012)
(Sotomayor, J., concurring) ("Awareness that the Government may be watching
chills associational and expressive freedoms.").





n173.  See, e.g., id. at 963 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment) ("In the
pre-computer age, the greatest protections of privacy were neither
constitutional nor statutory, but practical. Traditional surveillance for any
extended period of time was difficult and costly and therefore rarely
undertaken.").





n174.  See Scott Shane, Data Storage Could Expand Reach of Surveillance, N.Y.
Times (Aug. 14, 2012),
http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/advances-in-data-storage-have-impl
ications-for-government- surveillance/?_php=true&_type=blogs&_r=0.





n175.  See id.





n176.  See id.





n177.  See Villasenor, supra note 22, at 1. Wayne Logan has persuasively argued
that such a capacity has exposed the need to distinguish between identity
evidence used strictly for identity verification and that used for forensic
investigation. See Logan, supra note 151, at 1581-93.





n178.  On the various ways in which people might protest the growing
surveillance capacities of the government, see Elizabeth E. Joh, Privacy
Protests: Surveillance Evasion and Fourth Amendment Suspicion, 55 Ariz. L. Rev.
997 (2013); see also Villasenor, supra note 22, at 7 (observing that the use of
encryption, for instance, might attract greater government attention).





n179.  Kevin Bankston and Ashkan Soltani have demonstrated the enormous
differences in cost between traditional and new surveillance methods. They
estimate that the cost of a using a traditional covert five police car
surveillance operation over 28 days - the days the government followed Antoine
Jones - is "nearly 775 times more expensive than the cost of using GPS." Kevin
S. Bankston & Ashkan Soltani, Tiny Constables and the Cost of Surveillance:
Making Cents out of United States v. Jones, 123 Yale L.J. Online 334, 335
(2014), http://yalelawjournal.org/2014/1/9/ bankston-soltani.html.





n180.  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 351 (1967) ("What a person knowingly
exposes to the public, even in his own home or office, is not a subject of
Fourth Amendment protection.").





n181.  See supra text accompanying notes 43-47.





n182.  See supra text accompanying notes 43-47.





n183.  See Mayer-Schonberger & Cukier, supra note 10, at 104 ("In the big-data
age, data is like a magical diamond mine that keeps on giving long after its
principal value has been tapped.").





n184.  See, e.g., Russell D. Covey, Pervasive Surveillance and the Future of the
Fourth Amendment, 80 Miss. L.J. 1289, 1294-95 (2011) ("Fourth Amendment law ...
has proved singularly inept at dealing with the technological revolution... .
[This is because it] has purported to regulate and control the non-consensual
governmental acquisition of information from individuals in the name of privacy
protection.").





n185.  See Erin Murphy, Back to the Future: The Curious Case of United States v.
Jones, 10 Ohio St. J. Crim. L. 325, 330-31 (2012) ("Current Fourth Amendment law
emphasizes acquisition: how did the police acquire the DNA sample or financial
record or biometric image? It cares little for what happens next - to what use
that information is put.").





n186.  Thus in a case from the 1990s, the New York Court of Appeals rejected a
Fourth Amendment challenge to the use of a DNA analysis to connect a defendant
to a rape, although the warrant for the blood sample was approved with regard to
a different case. People v. King, 663 N.Y.S.2d 610, 614 (N.Y. App. Div. 1997)
("It is also clear that once a person's blood sample has been obtained lawfully,
he can no longer assert either privacy claims or unreasonable search and seizure
arguments with respect to the use of that sample. Privacy concerns are no longer
relevant once the sample has already lawfully been removed from the body, and
the scientific analysis of a sample does not involve any further search and
seizure of a defendant's person.").





n187.  See, e.g., State v. Hauge, 79 P.3d 131, 144 (Haw. 2003) ("The appellate
courts of several states have ruled that expectations of privacy in lawfully
obtained blood samples ... are not objectively reasonable by "society's'
standards. Specifically, a number of jurisdictions have held on analogous facts
that once a blood sample and DNA profile is lawfully procured from a defendant,
no privacy interest persists in either the sample or the profile."); State v.
Emerson, 981 N.E.2d 787, 792-93 (Ohio 2012) (rejecting defendant's claims of
privacy in subsequent uses of DNA profile); Smith v. State, 734 N.E.2d 706, 710
(Ind. Ct. App. 2000) ("Law enforcement agencies may retain validly obtained DNA
samples for use in subsequent unrelated criminal investigations ... ."), aff'd,
744 N.E.2d 437 (Ind. 2001).





n188.  Kelly Lowenberg argues that subsequent searches of DNA samples that yield
new information should require further government justification and a
consideration of the reasonableness of that additional search. In the familial
search context, Lowenberg suggests that Y-STR typing of a DNA sample of a
convicted offender would be permissible without a warrant, while the same
analysis conducted on another type of sample (e.g. a volunteer sample) would
not. See Kelly Lowenberg, Applying the Fourth Amendment When DNA Collected for
One Purpose is Tested for Another, 79 U. Cin. L. Rev. 1289, 1319-23 (2011).





n189.  Cf. Logan, supra note 151, at 1586 (distinguishing evidence showing
"one's identity (who one is), [from the] entirely different question ...
presented by identifying information (revealing what one might have done or
perhaps will do") (emphasis in original) (footnote omitted)).





n190.  See Covey, supra note 184, at 1302.





n191.  Harold J. Krent, Of Diaries and Data Banks: Use Restrictions Under the
Fourth Amendment, 74 Tex. L. Rev. 49, 60-63 (1995).





n192.  See id. at 80-81.





n193. __ U.S.__, 133 S. Ct. 1958 (2013).





n194.  Id. at 1980.





n195.  Id. at 1979.





n196.  Id. at 1980. Justice Scalia's dissent in King was much less sanguine
about the threats to privacy in the case, and strongly disputed that the
government's interest in the case could be justified as one of "identification."
See id. at 1988 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (noting "it may one day be possible to
design a program that uses DNA for a purpose other than crime-solving").





n197.  Cf. United States v. Jones, __U.S.__, 132 S. Ct. 945, 964 (2012) (Alito,
J., concurring in judgment) ("A legislative body is well situated to gauge
changing public attitudes, to draw detailed lines, and to balance privacy and
public safety in a comprehensive way.").





n198.  In the King case, the majority comfortably found that arrestee DNA
profiles could be used to link the defendant to a crime unrelated to the crime
of arrest, King, 133 S. Ct. at 1965, 1970-80, a definition of "identification"
to which Justice Scalia dissented, dramatically. See id. at 1982-90 (Scalia, J.,
dissenting). For further discussion of this issue, see Joh, supra note 111.





n199.  See Sengupta, supra note 5. Indeed, to the extent that these companies
may market both to public police departments and private corporations interested
in reducing crime privately, special attention must be paid to claims of public
benefit. For further discussion on how private interests can distort public
police goals, see Elizabeth E. Joh, The Forgotten Threat: Private Policing and
the State, 13 Ind. J. Global Legal Stud. 357, 384-88 (2006).





n200.  See, e.g., Bond-Graham & Winston, supra note 64 (noting that PredPol
incorporated in January 2012 and "has emerged early to dominate the [predictive
policing] market").





n201.  The N.Y.P.D. is said to receive thirty percent of gross revenues from
sales of the system to other departments. Sam Roberts, Police Surveillance May
Earn Money for City, N.Y. Times, Apr. 4, 2013, at A23.





n202.  David Alan Sklansky, The Persistent Pull of Police Professionalism, New
Perspectives in Policing (Harvard Kennedy Sch., Cambridge, Mass. & Nat'l Inst.
of Just.), Mar. 2011, at 9, available at
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/232676.pdf.





n203.  See, e.g., Charlie Beck & Colleen McCue, Predictive Policing: What Can We
Learn from Wal-Mart and Amazon about Fighting Crime in a Recession?, Police
Chief (Nov. 2009), http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuse
action=display_arch&article_id=1942&issue _id=112009 (arguing that "predictive
policing represents an opportunity to prevent crime and respond more
effectively, while optimizing increasingly scarce or limited resources,
including personnel") (Charlie Beck is the Chief of Detectives for the
L.A.P.D.).





n204.  Cf. Sklansky, supra note 202, at 9-10 ("A fixation on technology can
distract attention from the harder and more important parts of [policing], the
parts that rely on imagination and judgment.").





n205.  Perhaps the ambiguities of policing was best stated by sociologist Egon
Bittner, who described the job of policing as: "a mechanism for the distribution
of non-negotiably coercive force employed in accordance with the dictates of an
intuitive grasp of situational exigencies." See Egon Bittner, The Functions of
the Police in Modern Society: A Review of Background Factors, Current Practices,
and Possible Role Models 46 (1970).





n206.  See, e.g., Eric H. Monkkonen, History of Urban Police, 15 Crime & Just.
547, 555 (1992) (observing that early in American policing history the police
were expected to dole out social services to the city's needy).


                               2 of 22 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 2014 Temple University of the Commonwealth
                           System of Higher Education
                   Temple Political & Civil Rights Law Review

                                   Fall, 2014

                   Temple Political & Civil Rights Law Review

                     24 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 215

LENGTH: 21950 words

NOTE & COMMENT: FRISKY BUSINESS: MITIGATING PREDICTIVE CRIME SOFTWARE'S
FACILITATION OF UNLAWFUL STOP AND FRISKS

NAME: Alexander H. Kipperman*

BIO: * J.D., Temple University Beasley School of Law (2014).

TEXT:
 [*215]

   Introduction


   Over the last decade, police departments have begun to employ "predictive
crime software" (PCS) as a tool designed to reduce crime by forecasting the
likely locations of future crimes and enabling efficient resource allocation.
This software uses complex algorithms and regression models to identify hotspots
or large regions of increased criminal activity. A number of software companies,
such as IBM, PredPol, and Aseva develop this software specifically for police
departments.

   This paper begins by giving a brief history of how data has influenced police
action in recent decades and how police have come to use modern predictive
policing. It then proceeds to discuss the relevant constitutional issues
surrounding "stops" and "reasonable suspicion." n1

   By characterizing areas of criminal activity, this software directly raises
the issue of "high-crime areas" (HCA) within the context of Fourth Amendment
analysis. n2 The Fourth Amendment provides "the right of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures." n3 In 1968, in Terry v. Ohio, n4 the Supreme Court held that an
officer is permitted to briefly detain an individual, without violating his
Fourth Amendment rights, when he "observes unusual conduct which leads him
reasonably to conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be
afoot." n5 Stops conducted on this basis have become known as "Terry stops." In
Illinois v. Wardlow, n6 the Court relaxed the standards for determining
"reasonable suspicion" within HCAs. n7 This holding permits an officer to find
sufficient reasonable suspicion to conduct a stop  [*216]  when a suspect flees
upon sight of that officer. n8 More generally, Wardlow suggests that officers
might reasonably view otherwise innocent behavior as suspicious when within a
HCA. n9

   This comment then discusses how predictive crime software impacts Fourth
Amendment analysis and the rights of individuals within and around hotspots. It
also considers whether police departments have established mechanisms to protect
these rights from potential abuses. To address these issues, this paper examines
the New York City Police Department's history of conducting stops and the recent
Southern District of New York case, Floyd v. City of New York. n10 Findings
suggest that the implementation of data-driven policing is particularly
susceptible to political influences and policy-driven decision-making, thus
undermining PCS's purported objectivity. This diminished objectivity creates the
risk for widespread erosion of individuals' Fourth Amendment protections.
Finally, this comment recommends that municipalities remove PCS analysts from
the police command structure and place them in an independent agency structured
to protect objective, data-driven crime forecasting and hotspot identification.

   I. Background

   A. Predictive Crime Software

 Historically, police departments have used the standard policing model to
prevent crime through randomized patrols designed to "create a perception of
police omnipresence to deter crime in public places." n11 It emphasizes the
importance of "follow-up investigations by detectives to increase the
solvability of the crimes" n12 and encourages "general reactive arrest policies"
to "deter and punish specific offenders as well as deter the general public from
committing crimes." n13

   However because crimes tend to cluster, geographically smaller areas of
cities tend to contain a vastly disproportionate amount of criminal activity.
n14 The standard police model thus led to inefficient resource allocation. n15 A
1989 study found that  [*217]  three percent of all addresses in Minneapolis
accounted for fifty percent of police service calls. n16 Behavior analysis has
shown that crime tends to cluster because retaliations commonly occur through
inter-gang violence, and because burglars often return to the same, or
neighboring house in the days and weeks after a crime. n17 Jeff Brantingham,
anthropologist and PredPol developer, explained this concept: "criminals are
predictable creatures ... if there is an opportunity - a streetlight out on a
certain corner, say - a criminal will exploit that opportunity as long as it
exists." n18

   Although police departments have historically lacked advanced statistical
analysis to determine the probable location of future crime, general data
collection allowed for rudimentary analysis that has enabled police departments
to rationally adjust resource allocation. n19 Since the 1930s, n20 police
departments have collected data on "emergency response times, the number of
crime reports, number of cases investigated and solved, and the number of
arrests." n21 During the 1980s, New York City Transit Police Lieutenant, Jack
Maple, mapped every train and train station in New York City. n22 He would then
use "crayons to mark every violent crime, robbery and grand larceny that
occurred, indicating those solved and the unsolved." n23 These maps changed the
randomized nature of the standard model of policing by identifying high crime
areas and guiding Maple's decisions of where to allocate police officers. n24

   Advancements in technology enabled police departments to better understand
criminal patterns n25 and move "from a reactive stance to a more predictive
posture." n26 In 1994, the New York City Police Department ("NYPD") implemented
CompStat. n27 CompStat institutionalized the use of data by transforming the
NYPD's standard model to one entirely reliant and driven by statistical analysis
[*218]  and outcomes. n28 For the first time, police departments were able to
rely upon digital maps depicting specific crimes, charts illustrating
characteristics of crimes and arrests, and statistical feedback on the
percentage of command officers actively making arrests. n29 CompStat consists of
"regularized, interactive crime prevention and reduction strategy meetings where
managers are held accountable for the crime prevention approaches they implement
in their districts." n30 The NYPD reported a fifty-three percent decline in
burglaries, a fifty-four percent drop in reported robberies, and a sixty-seven
percent decrease in the murder rate between 1993 and 1998. n31 As a result, many
police departments throughout the United States adopted data-based policing
models. n32

   Today, police departments employ PCS to identify hotspots and areas of
increased criminal activity. n33 PCS uses complex algorithms and geographic
information systems ("GIS") to predict the location of future crime by taking
"advantage of the fact that crime is not uniformly distributed." n34 Some
forecasting may be achieved using programs such as Microsoft Excel or
statistical software packages and languages such as SAS, IBM's Statistical
Package for Social Sciences ("SPSS"), and an "open-source and freely
distributed" software known as "R". n35 However, large police departments employ
software specifically designed for forecasting crime, such as IBM's PCS,
PredPol, and HunchLab. Police departments in New York, New York have employed
IBM. n36 The following cities use PredPol: Memphis, Tennessee; n37 Seattle,
Washington; Tacoma, Washington; Los Angles, California; and Santa Cruz,
California. n38 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  [*219]  has recently adopted
HunchLab. n39

   Police departments rely upon their crime analysts' discretion to develop the
statistical regression and geographic mapping models that ultimately shape the
boundaries of HCAs. n40 As a result, the software and techniques employed by
police departments may vary significantly. n41 Regression analysis is "a
statistical tool for the investigation of relationships between variables" in
which the "investigator seeks to ascertain the causal effect of one variable
upon another." n42 All regression analyses initially depend upon a hypothesis
about the relationship of input variables (IV) of interest on a certain outcome,
the output variable (OV). n43

   Predictive crime analysis attempts to identify a causal relationship between
certain variables and crime. For example, a simple regression model may include
the frequency of past crime in a particular location, the IV, to predict the
likelihood of a similar crime, the OV, in the same location. n44 In reality,
predictive analysis relies on highly complex regression models. n45 The crime
analyst's selection of input variables is critically important to the model's
predictive value. n46 The selection process may take several forms. Some
analysts rely on manual experiments and correlation heuristics. n47 In this
method, the analyst applies his initial hypothetical set of IVs and then adjusts
the criteria to those with the greatest statistical value, i.e. those that
contribute high predictive accuracy. n48

   Some analysts may employ a forward/stepwise regression method that
interactively builds the regression by adding variables to statistically improve
the model's accuracy. n49 While this method leads to highly predictive models,
it has  [*220]  been criticized for falsely indicating the causal relationships
of IVs present in a given iteration. n50 Another selection method includes
"mathematical optimization." n51 These models place penalties on the number of
variables included in the model and weed out weak variables. n52 Mathematical
optimization results in the greatest overall predictive power; however, this
method requires sophisticated knowledge of language-based software. n53

   Using IBM, analysts can manipulate certain variables (type of crime, time,
weather, level of police presence, etc.), n54 while the software utilizes
"statistical data exploration and machine-learning techniques" n55 to analyze
historical crime data, geographic data, live video feeds, and complex datasets.
n56 These complex datasets include weather conditions, "vast amounts of textual
or unstructured data such as emails, videos and chat room interactions," n57 and
"triggers" such as paydays, holidays, and city events. n58

   PredPol relies on vast data banks, similar to IBM's software, but it uses a
"mathematical equation to predict crime based on the same formula currently used
to predict aftershocks for earthquakes." n59 The software's designers compare
the relationships of geographic features (like shopping malls) with crime to the
relationship between faults and earthquakes. n60 Brantingham, explains that
crimes, like earthquakes, tend to arise at a known rate and tend to occur in
clusters. n61 PredPol's developers claim that understanding these patterns
enables the software to forecast where crime will happen in the near future. n62

    [*221]  Crime analysts convert the findings from their regression models
into geographic representations. n63 These representations vary significantly
due to the analyst's discretion. n64 Modern GIS software (and even basic
software such as Excel) enables police departments to construct detailed,
interactive crime maps that are vastly more complex than the pin-and-crayon maps
created by Lieutenant Maple during the 1980s. n65 The analyst must decide how
large to define the hotspots - if too small, the map may exclude areas of
interest; if too large, the map fails to provide useful guidance for allocating
resources. n66 The analyst can choose among a variety of methods for
partitioning large geographic regions. n67 These methods "often yield different
numbers" while lacking theoretical justification for choosing one method over
another. n68 For example, the analyst may lay a grid over the relevant area. n69
A grid map of Washington, D.C. has each square grid representing a 250 meter by
250 meter area, n70 representing statistics from a six-month weighted average of
robbery data in 2009. n71 The analyst characterized the region with a level of
granularity defined by the grid. n72 The red colored squares represent the top
two percent for robbery counts; orange squares, the top five percent; and yellow
squares the top ten percent. n73

   Although incidents of crime tend to be clustered, these clusters rarely
constitute precise squares. n74 To account for this reality, crime analysts
manipulate the boundaries and threshold distance between crime incidents to
constitute a cluster. n75 The analysts ultimately determine the location, size,
shape and nature of hotspots by selecting certain variables, such as
concentration of past criminal incidents, environmental characteristics
associated with crime (or both), the amount of time captured by the analysis
(e.g., one year of crime data vs. five years of crime data), and the weighting
scheme applied to past criminal incidents. n76 Some analysts will mathematically
calculate a set of "ellipses" that overlay the grid based upon  [*222]  spatial
crime clusters. n77 Alternatively, the spatial representation might take the
form of hierarchical clusters, partitioned clusters, fuzzy clusters, density
mapping, or risk-terrain modeling (RTM) clusters. n78 While cluster analysis
tend to create isolated or bordered regions, fuzzy clustering relaxes some of
the rules of hierarchical and portioned clustering and allows some incidents to
exist in one or more overlapping clusters. n79 Density mapping creates a more
nuanced representation that smooth's over individual crime incidents, resulting
in a map looking "similar to a topography map; [where] areas with a higher
"elevation' have a higher density of crime." n80

   RTM guides the regression model by incorporating geographic variables into
hotspot detection. n81 Rather than relying solely on past criminal behavior,
this predictive policing model allows analysts to leverage decades of
criminological, sociological, and psychological research, traffic patterns, and
sporting and entertainment events. n82 The analyst selects the characteristics
that he believes will predict the risk of various forms of criminal activities.
n83 Criminological theories such as aggression theory, social behavior theory,
and practitioner knowledge inform this process. n84 Aggression theory states
that "high temperatures induce feelings of anger, frustration and irritation,"
and studies indicate that higher temperatures have been associated with violent
crimes. n85 Thus, identifying hotspots under RTM is highly sensitive to the
analyst's judgment. n86

   To utilize these PCS programs, police departments have created specialized
divisions. The NYPD houses its crime analytics within its Police Headquarters in
a division known as the "Real Time Crime Center" ("RTCC"). n87 The NYPD's RTCC
[*223]  contains forty detectives and civilian analysts, all accountable
directly to the Deputy Commissioner, who also serves as the NYPD's Chief
Information Officer ("CIO"). n88 Other cities have replicated this model, such
as Memphis, whose RTCC employs sixteen officers. n89 In Los Angeles, these labs
provide officers with a map that indicates the relevant area's hotspots on a
daily basis. n90 However, in New York and Philadelphia, crime analysts have the
ability to continually transmit crime data and geographic analysis directly to
an officer's mobile devices. n91 Due to this relationship, departments utilizing
predictive crime software have substantial influence over how street-level
officers patrol their cities. n92

   B. Constitutional Issues

 The Fourth Amendment provides that the "right of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated." n93 Fourth Amendment analysis turns on
questions of probability, n94 and the government's most severe infringements
upon these rights  [*224]  require a showing of probable cause. n95 A sufficient
showing of probable cause does not require meeting a "numerically precise degree
of certainty" or a "prima facie showing, of criminal activity." n96 Instead, it
requires that police demonstrate a "probability... of criminal activity." n97
However, probability of criminal activity arising from reasonable suspicion
requires "a showing considerably less than preponderance of the evidence." n98

   Police now rely upon HCA designations to validate presumptions of criminal
activity associated with potentially innocent conduct. n99 PCS fits into this
area of Fourth Amendment analysis by identifying areas of probable criminal
activity. n100 To determine the impact of PCS on individuals' Fourth Amendment
rights, it is crucial to understand how the courts have handled police action
involving HCAs.

   The requirement to demonstrate a probability of criminal activity protects
"citizens from rash and unreasonable interferences with privacy and from
unfounded charges of crime," while permitting for "fair leeway for enforcing the
law in the community's protection." n101 The Supreme Court has held that "the
probable-cause standard is incapable of precise definition or quantification
into percentages because it deals with probabilities and depends on the totality
of the circumstances." n102 In the case of arrest and search warrants, a neutral
detached magistrate must find probable cause defined as a reasonable belief
"that a crime has been committed and that the person or place named in the
warrant is involved in the crime." n103 Furthermore, courts reviewing an
officer's alleged finding of probable cause must "examine the events leading up
to the arrest, and then decide "whether these historical facts, viewed from the
standpoint of an objectively reasonable police officer, amount to' probable
cause." n104

   For the purposes of Fourth Amendment analysis, the terms "stop" and "frisk"
have become analogous with "seizure" and "search," respectively. n105 Whenever a
[*225]  police officer "accosts an individual and restrains his freedom to walk
away," n106 that individual has been seized. n107 In Terry, the court strongly
rejected the argument that stops-and-frisks fall "outside the purview of the
Fourth Amendment," n108 stating that such conduct amounts to a "serious
intrusion upon the sanctity of the person, which may inflict great indignity and
arouse strong resentment, and it is not to be undertaken lightly." n109

   Similarly, a search occurs whenever a police officer frisks an individual and
conducts a "careful exploration of the outer surfaces of a person's clothing all
over his or her body in an attempt to find weapons." n110 Unlike a search
justified by a warrant under which concerns of preserving evidence may guide
decisions, the "sole justification of the search [during a stop] is the
protection of the police officer and others nearby," and is "therefore confined
in scope to an intrusion reasonably designed to discover" hidden and potentially
harmful instruments. n111

   To deter lawless police conduct, the exclusionary rule prohibits the
admission of evidence obtained in a violation of the Fourth Amendment. n112 In
other words, that which the police discover "by means of a seizure and search
which were not reasonably related in scope to the justification for their
initiation." n113 Lawfulness depends on "reasonableness in all the circumstances
of the particular governmental invasion of a citizen's personal security." n114
Thus, to find an officer's action reasonable, a court must find the search and
seizure both "justified at its inception" and "reasonably related in scope to
the circumstances which justified the interference in the first place." n115

   Aware of the tension between the rights of the citizen and the "interest of
effective law enforcement," n116 the Terry court determined the context in which
a police officer may, without violating the citizen's right, ""stop' a person
and detain him briefly for questioning" and conduct a frisk. n117 Terry held
that a "police officer observing unusual conduct [that] leads him reasonably to
conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be afoot ... is
entitled ... to conduct a  [*226]  carefully limited search ... ." n118 The
officer must justify this stop with "specific and articulable facts which, taken
together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant that
intrusion." n119 The officer's discretion and "good faith alone are not enough."
n120

   Reviewing courts "must look at "the totality of the circumstances' of each
case to see whether the detaining officer has a "particularized and objective
basis' for suspecting legal wrongdoing." n121 "While "reasonable suspicion' is a
less demanding standard than probable cause and requires a showing considerably
less than preponderance of the evidence, the Fourth Amendment requires at least
a minimal level of objective justification for making the stop." n122 Stops made
pursuant to reasonable suspicion have become commonly known as Terry stops. n123
During a Terry stop, the officer may "stop and briefly detain a person for
investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion supported by
articulable facts that criminal activity "may be afoot,' even if the officer
lacks probable cause." n124

   In Wardlow, the Supreme Court held that, when within a HCA, an officer may
find reasonable suspicion of criminal activity when an individual flees from the
officer upon becoming aware of the officer's presence. n125 In such
circumstances, the officer need not articulate additional facts beyond the
suspect's flight within a HCA. n126 In Wardlow, several police offers were
patrolling "an area known for heavy narcotics trafficking." n127 Upon seeing
these officers, Wardlow fled, then "two of the officers caught up with him,
stopped him and conducted a protective pat down search for weapons" and found a
.38-caliber handgun. n128 Wardlow challenged the arrest on the grounds that the
officers lacked the reasonable suspicion necessary to conduct the initial stop.
n129 The Illinois Supreme Court upheld the Appellate Court's conclusion that the
gun should have been suppressed, n130 holding that "sudden flight" in a high
crime area "does not create a  [*227]  reasonable suspicion justifying a Terry
stop." n131 The court explained;



   Although police have the right to approach individuals and ask questions, the
individual has no obligation to respond. The person may decline to answer and
simply go on his or her way, and the refusal to respond, alone, does not provide
a legitimate basis for an investigative stop. Flight may simply be an exercise
of this right to "go on one's way,' and, thus, could not constitute reasonable
suspicion justifying a Terry stop. n132

 Drawing upon the reasoning contained in Adams v. Williams, n133 the Supreme
Court of the United States reversed the Illinois Supreme Court. n134 The United
States Supreme Court explained, "Officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whether the circumstances
are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation." n135 Thus, the
officer may include the area's "high crime" character "among the relevant
contextual considerations in a Terry analysis" n136 along with his "commonsense
judgments and inferences about human behavior." n137 As such, officers may
deduce reasonable suspicion from "nervous, evasive behavior" and "flight ... the
consummate act of evasion." n138 The Court recognized that people have the right
to refuse to cooperate, and that such refusal alone "does not furnish the
minimal level of objective justification needed for a detention or seizure."
n139 However, "unprovoked flight is simply not a mere refusal to cooperate.
Flight, by its very nature, is not going about one's business; in fact, it is
just the opposite." n140 Thus, when confronted with such flight in a high crime
area, an officer may conduct a stop based on reasonable suspicion. n141

   II. Discussion

 In Wardlow, the Illinois Appellate Court, n142 the Illinois Supreme Court, n143
and  [*228]  the Supreme Court of the United States n144 each agreed that the
officers were driving toward a HCA "known for heavy narcotics trafficking." n145
However, the Illinois Appellate Court found that officers stopped Wardlow
outside this HCA. n146 That court held the "high crime area should be a
sufficiently localized and identifiable location" to pass constitutional muster.
n147 The Illinois Supreme Court reversed this finding as a matter of law,
holding that "the reviewing court should take care both to review findings of
fact only for clear error and to give due weight to inferences drawn from those
facts by judges and local law enforcement officers." n148 Upholding the Illinois
Supreme Court's findings, the United States Supreme Court held that an officer's
personal judgment based on his experience, rather than empirical evidence, is
sufficient to characterize the area as a HCA. n149 Since Wardlow, courts have
upheld HCAs without strong empirical bases if they are "known for drug
activity," n150 "riddled with narcotics dealings and drug-related shootings,"
n151 ""notorious' or [have] a reputation for illegal conduct, n152 or are
"plagued by gang-related shootings, drug dealing, assaults, and robberies.'"
n153

   Recognizing that a pedestrian may break into a run for a variety of reasons,
both innocent and guilty, n154 the Court in Wardlow rejected the proposed per se
rule  [*229]  argued by Wardlow: the "fact that a person flees upon seeing the
police can never, by itself, be sufficient to justify a temporary investigative
stop." n155 It also rejected the government's proposed per se rule that "flight
is ... necessarily indicative of ongoing criminal activity." n156 Wardlow
attempted to strike a balance between these rules by modifying the "degree of
suspicion that attaches to a person's flight" and the range of "commonsense
conclusions" that an officer may reach respecting the motives behind that
flight. n157 For example, in a low crime area, officers might view flight as an
effort to catch a bus, where as in a high crime area, they might view a fleeing
person as someone in possession of contraband. n158 Thus, when within a HCA, an
officer may reasonably suspect a sufficient probability of criminal activity to
conduct a stop from behavior otherwise viewed as innocent. n159

   By boosting the probability of criminal activity associated with otherwise
innocent behavior, HCAs have a substantial impact on the Fourth Amendment rights
of individuals within these areas. During the same year as Wardlow, Judge
Kozinski, of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, attempted to create a framework
for HCA analysis. n160 He argued that the question is not "whether the
characteristics of the area may be taken into account, but how these
characteristics are established." n161 In United States v. Montero-Camargo, n162
the Ninth Circuit rejected the notion that an officer's subjective beliefs of a
person's race and location may constitute a "relevant or appropriate factor to
consider in determining reasonable suspicion," n163 and held "that courts should
... examine with care the specific data underlying any [assertion of a HCA]."
n164 Finding that a HCA can justify an otherwise illegal stop, the majority
further instructed district courts to "carefully examine the testimony of police
officers in cases such as this, and make a fair and forthright evaluation of the
evidence they offer." n165

   In United States v. Bonner, n166 the Third Circuit also sought empirical
determination of HCAs. The arresting officer in Bonner justified his arrest
based on reasonable suspicion by characterizing the relevant area as a "high
narcotics  [*230]  trafficking area." n167 The government defended this position
with evidence indicating that "an average of 1.3 arrests were made per week near
the place of the stop and the majority of these were for misdemeanor or summary
offenses" n168 and a newspaper article describing the location as within a
"high-crime area." n169 The district court rejected the government's argument
after finding that the crime rate failed to characterize the area as a HCA given
its large population. n170 While the Third Circuit reversed the district court
on grounds other than the HCA issue, Judge Smith, in his concurrence, discussed
the evidentiary standard required to appropriately characterize an area as a
HCA. n171 Specifically, he stated that the government must:



   prove the existence of objective criteria for what constitutes a high crime
area and that the stop occurred in such an area, or rather ... the government is
required to prove that officers effecting the stop had a reasonable articulable
basis to believe that they were in a high-crime area. n172

 Similarly, in United States v. Wright, n173 the First Circuit held that the
finding of a HCA generally entails an examination of "the nexus between the type
of crime most prevalent or common in the area and the type of crime suspected in
the instant case" within the "limited geographic boundaries of the area or
neighborhood." n174 That is, a "temporal proximity" must exist "between evidence
of heightened criminal activity and the date of the stop or search at issue."
n175

   Despite the attempts of these district and circuit courts to establish a
quantifiable framework for delineating HCAs, the Wardlow Court specifically
stated that "courts do not have available empirical studies dealing with
inferences drawn from suspicious behavior, and we cannot reasonably demand
scientific certainty from judges or law enforcement officers where none exists."
n176 Wardlow held that courts should defer to an officer's determination as to
reasonable suspicion "based on [his or her] commonsense judgments and inferences
about human behavior." n177 As described above, crime analysts necessarily
exercise a high degree of discretion when deciding how to geographically
represent regions of  [*231]  increased criminal activity. n178 The analyst is
capable of tailoring these regions to tightly conform to crime incidents or link
distant incidents to characterize larger regions. n179 In Wardlow, by some
mechanism independent of the arresting officer, the Chicago Police Department
identified certain areas within the city's Eleventh District ("D11") as HCAs.
n180 The officers stopped Wardlow while on their way to an area within D11 known
for "high narcotics traffic." n181 Admittedly, the officers had not yet reached
the area of known criminal activity. n182 However, the court permitted the
officer to rely on the nature of that area to color the character of Wardlow's
location "based upon [the officer's] experience in investigating areas in which
narcotics were sold," it was common for there to be weapons "in the near
vicinity." n183 Therefore, once a crime analyst identifies a hotspot or a HCA
and transmits that information to the street-level officer, courts should defer
to his subjective rationalizations and conclusions drawn from his experience.
n184

   The Supreme Court has permitted officers to consider information from
sources, such as informants, in their reasonable suspicion analysis. Wardlow
cited Adams v. Williams n185 where a police officer relied on an informant's tip
in conducting a Terry-like stop. n186 In Illinois v. Gates, Aguilar v. Texas,
n187 and Spinelli v. United States, n188 the Supreme Court dealt with police
informants' ability to provide qualitatively sufficient information for a
neutral detached magistrate to find probable cause. Until Gates, courts applied
a two-prong test, outlined in Aguilar and Spinelli, to determine whether an
informant's tip provides sufficient predictive value to establish probable cause
and whether an informant's tips can (just like HCAs) give "suspicious color" to
the otherwise innocent behavior contained in a suspect's police report. n189 The
pre-Gates test required revealing the informant's "basis of knowledge" and
providing sufficient facts to establish either the informant's "veracity" or the
"reliability" of the informant's report. n190 Thus, in  [*232]  accordance with
this test, warrant applications necessarily contain additional, corroborating
information to allow the magistrate to independently judge the validity of the
informant's allegation; an affiant officer swearing upon its reliability would
fail to provide sufficient ground for a magistrate to find the allegations
reliable. n191

   Even if partially corroborated, the magistrate must find the tip
independently trustworthy when standing alone from the other allegations
contained in the application. n192 The informant must also provide a sufficient
statement of the underlying circumstances from which the informer derived his
allegations and be able to explain why his statements are reliable. n193 Thus,
even if an informant's tip corroborates other information contained in the
warrant application, it would fail to "ripen into a judgment that a crime was
probably being committed" and provide a basis for probable cause. n194

   However, the Spinelli majority held that, when incapable of explaining how
the information was gathered, "it is especially important that the tip describe
the accused's criminal activity in sufficient detail that the magistrate may
know that he is relying on something more substantial than a casual rumor
circulating in the underworld or an accusation based merely on an individual's
general reputation." n195 Justice White criticized the majority's conclusion
that Draper v. United States n196 provided the proper "benchmark" of detail
sufficient for probable cause. n197 In Draper, the informant reported that
Draper would arrive in Denver on a train from Chicago on one of two days,
supplied a fairly detailed physical description, predicted that he would be
wearing a light colored raincoat, brown slacks and black shoes, would be walking
"real fast," and that he would be carrying a quantity of heroin. n198 While the
descriptive facts "reinforced the honesty of the informant" and were verified by
the officers at the train station, they could have been obtained from others and
the presence of narcotics may have been merely "inferred from circumstances
which a magistrate would find unacceptable." n199 Thus, Justice White rejected
the majority's suggestion that when an "informant is right about some things, he
is more probably right about other facts, usually the critical, unverified
facts." n200

   Despite Justice White's concerns, the Gates Court adopted a totality of
circumstances test that dispatched with Spinelli's "veracity prong." n201 Under
Gates,  [*233]  informants need not provide the basis for their information when
they have proven highly reliable in the past or when "corroboration through
other sources of information reduced the chances of a reckless or prevaricating
tale" of a highly detailed anonymous tip. n202 The majority explained that
"probable cause does not demand the certainty we associate with formal trials"
because a court may find a "fair probability" of the information's validity
sufficient through investigative corroboration. n203

   Adams is particularly relevant to PCS because it deals with the degree of
information that an officer might receive that is insufficient to provide
probable cause, yet sufficient to find reasonable suspicion. n204 This case
occurred pre-Gates, and was thus subjected to the higher Aguilar/Spinelli
standard; as a result, it would survive the Gates standard. In Adams, a known
informant informed an officer that "an individual seated in a nearby vehicle was
carrying narcotics and had a gun at his waist." n205 The officer then approached
the vehicle, tapped on the car window, and asked the occupant to open the door.
n206 When the occupant rolled down the window, the officer "reached into the car
and removed a fully loaded revolver from [his] waistband." n207 While the gun
was not initially visible to the officer outside the car, it was in the precise
location indicated by the informant. n208 The plaintiff challenged the
legitimacy of the search and seizure of his weapon, under Terry, for lacking a
"reliable informant, or some corroboration of the tip." n209

   The Court explained that an officer is not prohibited from investigating
possible criminal behavior in the absence of probable cause, and that the
"Fourth Amendment does not require a policeman who lacks the precise level of
information necessary for probable cause to arrest to simply shrug his shoulders
and allow a crime to occur or a criminal to escape." n210 Thus, even if an
"informant's unverified tip may have been insufficient for a narcotics arrest or
search warrant, the information [may carry] enough indicia of reliability to
justify the officer's forcible stop." n211 The fact that the officer knew the
informant provided a sufficient indicia of reliability, but "informants' tips,
like all other clues and evidence ... vary greatly in their value and
reliability." n212 As a result, some tips might require further investigation,
whereas others, such as when a victim is on the street seeking immediate police
aid and provides a description, may warrant a more immediate  [*234]  police
response. n213

   Officers may reasonably integrate PCS analysis into their reasonable
suspicion calculus as a type of known-informant in the same way the informant in
Adams provided a basis for the officer to reasonably heighten his suspicion of
criminal activity. n214 While some circuit courts have sought empirical bases
for defining HCAs, Wardlow permits the officer to rely upon his own judgment to
determine a HCA's spatial boundaries. n215 Wardlow upheld the officer's practice
of combining his experience with information that defined another area as a HCA
to characterize the area in which he stopped the suspect. Even if we assume that
the primary HCA had some empirical basis, the officer had combined this
information with his personal experience to expand that region to characterize
the location of Wardlow's arrest as one in which suspects may possess weapons.
n216 Under Gates and Adams, information received by the police need not provide
grounds for probable cause to conduct a constitutional Terry stop, and in each
of these cases, the court deferred to the officer's judgment when within a HCA.
n217

   Unlike an informant, PCS enables a police department to generate its own
tip-like information. n218 An examination of the NYPD illuminates how this
information can influence street-level officers' perception of their
surroundings. As described earlier, the NYPD pioneered data-driven policing and
predictive analytics. n219 In 2003, the NYPD initiated "Operation Impact," n220
which is still in effect today, and has applied "innovative mapping and
statistical tools" n221 to characterize a set of twenty precincts as "Impact
Zones;" n222 i.e. HCAs. n223 The identification process considered the nature,
time, location, date and number of crimes, elements of gangs and narcotics,
high-crime public housing developments, and ongoing crime trends. n224 Based on
this information, commanders subdivided some precincts into separate hotspots.
n225

    [*235]  Under Operation Impact, the NYPD assigned most of its police academy
graduates directly to HCAs (the "impact zones"). n226 The operation's
formulators reasoned that, because the academy graduates up to 1500 officers
every six months, this practice allows for efficient resource allocation. n227
Between January 2004 and June 2012, the NYPD police conducted over 4.4 million
Terry stops throughout the city. n228 After each stop, officers are required to
complete a "UF-250" form, also known as a "Stop, Question and Frisk Report
Worksheet." n229 This form provides "checkboxes and fields in which officers are
required to indicate the nature of the stop, and the circumstances that led to
and justified the stop (the "stop factors')." n230 Police designate stops
conducted within HCAs by checking the field: "Area Has Incidence Of Reported
Offense Of Type Under Investigation." n231 Because New York digitizes these
forms, the data readily indicates that HCAs provided the basis for fifty-five
percent of the stops between 2004 and 2009, n232 "regardless of the amount of
crime in the precinct or census tract as measured by crime complaints." n233
While Operation Impact's initial mapping pattern defined HCAs at the precinct
level, n234 the HCA-based stop locations suggest that entire boroughs, such as
Queens and Staten Island, have been treated as HCAs. n235

    [*236]  Recall, Wardlow enabled officers to combine their experience with
the information regarding the characterization of a particular location. n236 As
a result, inexperienced officers have deferred to this geographic character
information to conduct stops in their effort to meet quota systems instituted by
their commanding officers. n237 Indeed, the data suggests that these pressures
have led young officers to conduct stops based on nothing more than an
individual's presence within a HCA. n238

   These officers continued to rely on HCAs as the basis for stops despite the
fact that stops conducted outside HCAs were twenty-two percent more likely to
result in an arrest than those within HCAs. n239 By 2013, evidence showed that
crime-mapping software had brought Justice Stevens' warning to fruition by
enabling officers, particularly the inexperienced ones, to conduct
unconstitutional stops. n240 For example, the NYPD carried out more stops in
areas with Black and Hispanic residents. Controlling for other relevant
variables, the racial composition of a geographic unit proved the best predictor
of the rate of stops rather than the known crime rate. n241 In any area,
regardless of the overall racial composition, officers were more likely to stop
Black and Hispanic residents than White residents, even though stops of Whites
were thirty percent more likely to result in arrests. n242 Thus, the statistical
evidence indicated that the geographically large HCA designations enable and
perpetuate a trend of unconstitutional stops based on race. n243 In response to
these facts and in an effort to reduce the number of unjustified stops of
minority men, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio ordered Police Commissioner
William J. Bratton to stop sending "waves of rookie officers into crime-ridden
[*237]  neighborhoods." n244

   III. Analysis

 Although an officer's own experience plays a vital role in determining his or
her "reasonable suspicion," the information that crime analysts provide to
street-level officers plays an increasingly important role in how officers
perceive their surroundings. Crime analysts are subject to political and policy
initiatives because they exist within the police command structure. n245 As a
result, PCS creates an additional mechanism for commanders to influence the
conduct of street-level officers. n246 The effect on these officers is
particularly apparent, as seen in New York, when police departments unjustly
influence their officers' perceptions of geographic regions through purportedly
objective metrics. n247 Therefore, to mitigate the erosion of Fourth Amendment
rights in these regions, municipalities must create a better system of checks
and balances.

   Terry requires more than a "simple good faith" basis to conduct a stop. n248
However, an officer may rely upon his or her "experience" to evaluate suspicious
conduct. n249 In Terry, the Court looked to the officer's "30 years' experience
in the detection of thievery from stores" in the relevant neighborhood. n250
Similarly, the Wardlow Court deferred to the officer's experience by allowing
testimony explaining, "it was common for there to be weapons in the near
vicinity of narcotics transactions." n251 In Adams, the officer's experience
with the informant provided sufficient veracity of the information leading to
the stop. n252 Justice Stevens, dissenting in Wardlow, warned that HCA's might
threaten the  [*238]  constitutional rights of minorities living in such areas
by leading police officers to unjustly find reasonable suspicion in potentially
innocent behavior. n253

   The information provided by PCS inevitably influences officers' perception of
individuals based on their location, n254 and seems to have a predominating
influence over NYPD's officers. Although officers may perceive data provided by
PCS as objective, PCS forecasting and the hotspot identification process relies
on value-laden algorithms and the subjective decisions of PCS operators. n255 If
a city policy aims to reduce crime by increasing the number of stops, then crime
analysts may be influenced to manipulate geographic boundaries to increase the
size of and risk associated with HCAs. n256 Although PCS has led to substantial
reductions of crime in many cities, it comes at the cost of eroding the Fourth
Amendment protections provided under Terry.

   As explained earlier, analysts identify hotspots by arbitrarily choosing from
a range of methods for clustering crimes. n257 For example, IBM's software,
"Commander Dashboard," n258 enables analysts to forecast crime, identify
hotspots, and determine HCAs by manipulating a range of factors on its right
control panel. n259 The left panel indicates the locations and types of crimes
occurring within a certain timeframe. n260 The center panel contains the spatial
representation of forecasted crime in the region by coloring certain areas red,
yellow, or green. n261

   While the software permits hotspot identification down to block-level
specificity, this image clearly indicates that the analyst has chosen to
characterize large regions that have been geographically defined by streets.
n262 These decisions expand the region of heightened probability of criminal
conduct. As in Wardlow, this characterization demonstrates how analysts can
directly impact officers' conduct on the street by influencing the way officers
synthesize their observations and characterize the area. n263

    [*239]  In some cities, such as Santa Cruz, California, the police
department's crime analysts provide officers with a "crime forecast," indicating
when and where crimes might occur, and the probability of those crimes
occurring. n264 When deployed to a hotspot, Deputy Chief of Police Steve Clark
explains that he analyzes those who pass through that particular area. n265 When
he sees a suspicious individual, rather than stopping and talking to the person,
he will pretend as though he has not noticed him. n266 In Clark's case, rather
than using the hotspot information to justify more stops, he aims to reduce
crime in a region through using his presence as a deterrent.

   Philadelphia's new PCS, HunchLab, provides another example of in-house crime
analyst labs. n267 As explained by its developers, the software enables police
command staff to work with analysts to "design evidence-based tactics to use in
response to particular crime types" and "to limit these tactics to particular
geographic areas" or to "geographic features such as a school or bar." n268 A
certain danger, however, lies in this interaction between command staff and
analysts. Which party decides to set the scope of threat radius? Likewise, which
party decides which bars should be targeted?

   In 2008, Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, announced a new crime fighting
strategy aimed at reducing homicides by thirty to fifty percent over the
proceeding period of three to five years. n269 To accomplish this goal, the city
implemented "intelligent policing strategies" to target individuals with "proven
tactics, such as, but not limited to ... lawful stop and frisks." n270 This type
of policy determines how commanders interact with crime analysts. n271 To
prevent abuse, Philadelphia, and all cities employing PCS, should insulate the
analysts from pressures that might influence them to increase the geographic
size of HCAs in order to increase the number of lawful stops.

   Unfortunately, courts have not been forthcoming in setting the standards that
should be used to evaluate the existence of a HCA. n272 To fill this void,
Andrew Gutherie Ferguson recommends a "particularized approach" to high-crime
areas that centers "on the collection and distribution of particularized crime
data." n273 Ferguson argues this approach would focus on the "nexus between a
particularized  [*240]  crime pattern in a defined area and a police officer's
observations on the street." n274

   Such a framework requires prosecutors to prove the facts used to support the
finding of a HCA at an additional evidentiary examination procedure. This is
done by applying an "empirical approach to high-crime areas" that requires 1)
"the government [to] introduce objective, verifiable data about the level of
crime in a particular area... .relating to particularized and circumscribed;" 2)
that this data be "known to the officer before making the arrest, so as to
establish the nexus between the relevance of the high-crime area and the
reasonable suspicions of the officer;" 3) the trial court must then "make
factual findings about whether the area was objectively a high-crime area;" and
4) the trial court must then "analyze whether this fact affected the Fourth
Amendment reasonable suspicion analysis." n275 Under this analysis, if the
officer "did not base his decision on specific data about a specific crime
problem in a specific area, or if the data relied upon did not demonstrate a
specific and relevant crime problem, then reliance on this information should
not be considered." n276

   Ferguson's proposal is untenable under current Supreme Court precedent
because an officer need only "articulate something more than an "inchoate and
unparticularized suspicion or hunch,'" n277 and provide a "particularized and
objective basis" for suspecting legal wrongdoing. n278 Wardlow held that
officers may consider the "high crime" character of an area "among the relevant
contextual considerations in a Terry analysis." n279 PCS enables officers to
justify potentially unconstitutional Terry stops within hotspots by providing
the requisite minimal level of objective justification. n280

   In addition, Ferguson attempts to modify the reasonable suspicion calculus in
a way the Supreme Court flatly rejected in United States v. Arvizu. n281 In
Arvizu, the Ninth Circuit had attempted to analyze and weigh the various factors
considered in law enforcement's reasonable suspicion calculus. n282 The Supreme
Court, however, characterized the concept of reasonable suspicion as "somewhat
abstract" and incapable of being reduced to a "neat set of legal rules." n283

   Fourth Amendment analysis deals with probabilities derived; not from
technicalities, but from the "factual and practical considerations of everyday
life on  [*241]  which reasonable and prudent men ... act." n284 Since its
decision in Wardlow, the Supreme Court has instructed lower courts not to draw
"an unnecessarily sharp line between types of evidence." n285 To draw such a
line, it reasoned, would unnecessarily complicate the reasonable suspicion
analysis by adding a "divide-and-conquer analysis" that subjects various
elements of the totality of the circumstances to varying levels of review. n286
Even if a court were to accept certain heightened evidentiary standards, PCS
enables the government to meet the heightened evidentiary standards articulated
in Wright and Montero-Camargo: The arresting/stopping officer need only testify
that he relied on the map, while the crime analysts must provide an explanation
as to why the map sufficiently represents a nexus between the prior criminal
conduct and the geographically defined region. n287

   Although efforts to mitigate the problematic effects of PCS through
heightened evidentiary standards appear futile, Judge Scheindlin ordered
"immediate changes to the NYPD's policies ... [including] the appointment of an
independent monitor to oversee compliance with the remedies ordered in this
case" after finding that the NYPD's practices led to widespread unconstitutional
Terry stops and violations of the Equal Protection Clause. n288 In doing so, she
has attempted to establish a pre-litigation mechanism to protect citizen rights.
n289

   To mitigate the erosion of Fourth Amendment rights resulting from PCS
analysis, municipalities should shift their PCS operations away from the police
departments, and toward independent and neutral agencies, dedicated to the
identification of hot spots and forecasting of criminal activity. This framework
protects Fourth Amendment rights pre-litigation, and also institutes law
enforcement practices that foster constitutional conduct. Crime analysts are
accountable directly to their superior officers because police departments place
PCS analysts within their command structure. n290 As a result, politics and
command-level priorities dictate how crime analysts conduct and present their
research to street-level officers. n291

   An agency's independent status can protect against influence from other
governmental power sources and can immunize it from political coercion that
[*242]  might perpetuate various form of legal infraction. n292 Agencies acquire
independence from coercive forces by severing their accountability to
supervising officers. n293 Congress has sought to insulate agencies, such as the
Federal Election Commission ("FEC"), by structuring it as an independent agency
and eliminating the President's ability to exert his power to appoint and remove
the FEC's officers. n294 Congress reasoned that such independence enabled the
FEC's officers to freely serve the public's interest rather than the interests
of their superiors. n295

   In the context of the FEC, Congress feared that the "Justice Department,
headed by a Presidential appointee, might choose to ignore infractions committed
by members of the President's own political party." n296 Thus, Congress created
the FEC as an independent agency to protect the public from such infractions.
n297 Similarly, accountability to mayoral appointees, such as police chiefs and
commissioners, n298 pressures crime analysts to serve their superiors' interest
instead of the public. n299 As a result, political pressures to reduce crime
have lead crime analysts to broadly define hotspots and HCAs and increase the
number of Terry stops at the expense of the public's Fourth Amendment rights.
n300

   History suggests that cities can reduce crime in their region by increasing
the number of stops and arrests, but the same data suggests that without
limitations, the many of these stops may lack constitutional justification. n301
Independent crime  [*243]  analysts can achieve the necessary balance between
the need to protect the public through police action and the public's
constitutionally protected Fourth Amendment rights. Facts and objectivity should
drive PCS analysis. However, city policies, designed to broadly reduce crime,
influence crime analysts to expand the size of their geographical projections.
To ensure a level of objectivity, municipal councils should establish procedures
to verify the accuracy of collected information, specifically identifying
individual procedures to correct inaccurate information and clearly articulated
standards for setting thresholds regarding the geographic influence of crime
incidents and crime clusters. Crime analysts should avoid designating large
segments of cities as HCAs without an objective basis. Municipalities should
require crime analysts to follow procedural standards before transmitting data
directly to street-level officers by indicating the basis for providing such
information. For example, crime analysts might transmit that "there were 3
burglaries in the last 48 hours at locations [A], [B], [C]," n302 to an officer.
Analysts should accompany this type of data with explanatory information to
prevent the officer from increasing his suspicion of all individuals within the
area. In other words, crime analysts should avoid providing data that leads to
global characterizations.

   Independent PCS departments should also enforce mechanisms that ensure the
quality of their data in terms of censoring and relevance. Generally, censoring
suggests an underreporting of crime data that would lead to a failure of
recognizing areas of increased criminal activity. n303 However, some censoring
is required to ensure that the data accurately reflects existing crime patterns.
n304 For example, if an analyst applies a region's burglary data from the past
five years, the resulting map might characterize the entire region as high in
burglary. While this might serve a policy to crack down on crime throughout the
region, it comes at the expense of Fourth Amendment protections. Recognizing
these failures, Mayor de Blasio has considered appointing an independent monitor
to mitigate police violations. n305 In sum, cities should remove crime analysts
from the police command structure and place them within independent agencies
that have been structured to ensure objective analysis.

[*244]

   Conclusion

 A growing number of municipalities have adopted PCS as a tool designed to
efficiently allocate resources by identifying areas of heightened criminal
activity. This software uses regression analysis to forecast the probable
location of future criminal activity. n306 These regression formulas consider
past criminal activity, weather and traffic patterns, holiday and payday
information, and rely on certain behavioral theories to produce these forecasts.
n307 The software can identify areas of probable criminal activity as large as a
borough or as specific as a 500 feet by 500 feet area. n308 Cities that have
implemented this software claim that it has successfully reduced both crime and
costs. n309

   However, the experience over the last decade, most apparent in New York City,
suggests that this software has worked to erode the public's Fourth Amendment
protection from unreasonable stops and searches. Terry permits officers to stop
individuals without violating their Fourth Amendments rights when able to
"articulate something more than an inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or
hunch," n310 i.e., a ""particularized and objective basis' for suspecting legal
wrongdoing." n311 Adams and Wardlow permit officers to consider the character of
an area "among the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry analysis." n312
Adams explained that the information an officer receives from a known source can
influence his perception of the area around him. n313 Under Wardlow, conduct
with both innocent and guilty explanations (such as flight) can be characterized
as suspicious within a HCA whereas, outside of these areas, such conduct must be
viewed as innocent. n314 PCS serves as a type of known informant, and provides
officers with the requisite minimal level of objective justification to conduct
a Terry stop.

   PCS analysts exert a substantial degree of control over the evidentiary
production - the "particularized and objective basis" - for conducting a Terry
stop whenever they transmit hotspot or HCA information to an officer. In many
cities, mayors appoint the police chiefs and commissioners. n315 These officers
carry out the  [*245]  mayor's political and policy objectives by reallocating
their police department's resources. n316 This might lead those crime analysts
existing within such police departments to increase or reduce the size and
number of HCAs depending on the department's overall objects. n317 As a result,
the information they provide to street-level officers may lack an objective
basis of factual support. For example, crime analysts might exaggerate the
number of hotspots or geographic size of HCAs in order to serve political and
policy objectives. n318

   Furthermore, while circuit courts have asked government prosecutors to
evidence HCAs with empirical analysis, Wardlow rejects this line of inquiry,
focusing, instead, on the officer's "common sense judgments and inference about
human behavior." n319 The Supreme Court also rejected the notion of submitting
the various elements of the officer's reasonable suspicion to varying
evidentiary standards. n320 As a result, challenges to Terry stops within HCAs
for lack of empirical evidence tend to fail because Wardlow instructs courts to
focus their review on the officer's judgment.

   Due to this evidentiary barrier, municipalities should structure the
implementation of PCS such that the HCA identification process preserves
individuals' Fourth Amendment rights before the police conduct Terry stops. To
do so, this comment recommends that municipalities transfer the crime analysts
operating PCS out of the police command structure into an independent department
or agency. Within this framework, police departments would request, or regularly
receive, unbiased data and geographic mapping from the independent PCS
departments.

   This arrangement works to prevent the type of borough-sized HCA
classifications, seen in New York, that arise when officers use their own
experience to inflate the geographic area of a HCA identified by crime analysts.
In Wardlow, the officer stopped the suspect on his way to a HCA that had been
identified by a mechanism independent of the officer's experience. Based on that
HCA, the officer applied his own experience to characterize the surrounding
region as a HCA. n321 His characterization, combined with the suspect's flight,
justified the resulting Terry stop. The independent PCS department should
transmit crime data and mapping to officers with narrowly tailored geographic
zones. Within an independent agency, crime analysts can provide objective
analysis and narrowly tailored hotspots that  [*246]  will mitigate this
expansion effect and, ultimately, reduce the number of stops and arrests that
violate individuals' Fourth Amendment rights.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsSearch & SeizureGeneral
OverviewGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsPolice PowerReal Property
LawEstatesConcurrent OwnershipPartition Actions

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 30 (1968) (holding that where a police
officer may stop an individual when he "observes unusual conduct which leads him
reasonably to conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be
afoot").





n2.  See Walter L. Perry et al., Predictive Policing: The Role of Crime
Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations 87 (2013), available at
http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/research_reports/RR200/RR233/RAND_RR23
3.pdf ("Law enforcement officials must carefully consider issues related to
privacy and First Amendment rights before acting on information of this
nature."); see also Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Crime Mapping and the Fourth
Amendment: Redrawing "High-Crime Areas", 63 Hastings L.J. 179, 209 (2011) ("By
marking out a defined space of potentially less constitutional protection, the
use of [geographic information system] technologies exacerbates a tension in
current Fourth Amendment doctrine.").





n3.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 8.





n4.  392 U.S. 1 (1968).





n5.  Id. at 30.





n6.  528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n7.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 125-126 (2000).





n8.  Id.





n9.  See id. at 124-25 ("Headlong flight - wherever it occurs - is the
consummate act of evasion: It is not necessarily indicative of wrongdoing, but
it is certainly suggestive of such. In reviewing the propriety of an officer's
conduct, courts do not have available empirical studies dealing with inferences
drawn from suspicious behavior, and we cannot reasonably demand scientific
certainty from judges or law enforcement officers where none exists. Thus, the
determination of reasonable suspicion must be based on commonsense judgments and
inferences about human behavior.").





n10.  959 F. Supp. 2d 540 (S.D.N.Y. 2013).





n11.  Rachel Boba Santos, Crime Analysis with Crime Mapping 41 (3d ed. 2012)
(internal quotation marks omitted).





n12.  Id.





n13.  Id.





n14.  Anthony A. Braga, U.S. Dep't of Justice Office of Cmty. Oriented Policing
Servs., Crime Prevention Research Review No. 2: Police Enforcement Strategies to
Prevent Crime in Hot Spot Areas 6 (2008), available at
http://ric-zai-inc.com/Publications/cops-p140-pub.pdf.





n15.  See id. ("During the late 1980s and early 1990s, a number of research
studies documented that crime is not spread evenly across city landscapes;
rather, that crime clusters in very small places, or hot spots, that generate a
disproportionate amount of criminal events.").





n16.  Id.





n17.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, Predictive Policing and Reasonable Suspicion, 62
Emory L.J. 259, 277 (2012) (discussing "near-repeat theory").





n18.  Tessa Stuart, Santa Cruz's Predictive Policing Experiment, SantaCruz.com
(Feb. 14, 2012), http://www.santacruz.com/news/2012/02/14/santa_cruzs_predictive
_policing_experiment.





n19.  See Predictive Crime Fighting, IBM,
http://www-03.ibm.com/ibm/history/ibm100/us/en/icons/crimefighting/ (last
visited Jan, 28, 2015) (claiming that predictive crime software leads "efficient
allocation of resources" by move from a reactive stance to a more predictive
posture).





n20.  Uniform Crime Reporting Statistics: Their Proper Use, FBI (Jan. 2011),
http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/ucr-statistics-their-proper-use.





n21.  Santos, supra note 11, at 44.





n22.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n23.  Id.





n24.  Id.





n25.  IBM Crime Information Warehouse - Unlocking Data to Fight Crime, IBM Corp.
(June 2005),
http://www-935.ibm.com/services/in/gts/pdf/ciw-brochure-gc34-2501-01.pdf.





n26.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n27.  David N. Kelly & Sharon L. McCarthy, The Report of the Crime Reporting
Review Committee to Commissioner Raymond. W. Kelly Concerning CompStat Auditing,
NYPD Reports 5 (2013), available at
http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/downloads/pdf/public_information/crime_reporting_re
view_committee_final_report_2013.pdf.





n28.  Paul E. O'Connell, Using Performance Data for Accountability: The New York
City Police Department's CompStat Model of Police Management, IBM Ctr. for the
Bus. of Gov't 8 (2001), available at
http://www.businessofgovernment.org/sites/default/files/CompStat.pdf.





n29.  See Arthur Storch, Compstat - The Start of Revolution in Policing,
Worldwide L. Enforcement Consulting Group, Inc. 2 (2006), available at
http://www.worldwidelawenforcement.com/docs/COMPSTAT%20article.pdf
(characterizing CompStat's use of data and reports as revolutionary).





n30.  Santos, supra note 11, at 43.





n31.  O'Connell, supra note 28, at 8.





n32.  See Storch, supra note 29, at 2 (referencing Rome, New York; Port St.
Lucie, Florida; Rome, Italy).





n33.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 19 ("Hot spot methods predict areas of
increased crime risk based on historical crime data. Hot spot methods seek to
take advantage of the fact that crime is not uniformly distributed, identifying
areas with the highest crime volumes or rates.").





n34.  Id.





n35.  Id. at 18.





n36.  NYPD Changes the Crime Control Equation by Transforming the Way It Uses
Information, IBM,
ftp://ftp.software.ibm.com/software/solutions/pdfs/ODB-0144-01F.pdf (last
visited Jan. 28, 2015).





n37.  See News Release, IBM, Memphis Police Dep't Reduces Crime Rates with IBM
Predictive Analytics Software (July 21, 2010), available at
http://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/32169.wss [hereinafter Memphis
Police Dep't] (reporting on Memphis Police Department's new crime lab built on
IBM's software platform).





n38.  Jennifer Bachner, IBM Ctr. for the Bus. of Gov't, Predictive Policing:
Preventing Crime with Data and Analytics 19 (2013), available at
http://www.foresightfordevelopment.org/sobipro/55/1170-predictive-policing
-preventing-crime-with-data-and-analytics.





n39.  See Juliana Reyes, Philly Police Will Be First Big City Cops to Use
Azavea's Crime Predicting Software, Technically Media Inc. (Nov. 7, 2013, 12:30
PM),
http://technical.ly/philly/2013/11/07/azavea-philly-police-crime-prediction-soft
ware (explaining that during 2013, Philadelphia became the first large city to
use Azavea's HunchLab crime software).





n40.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 20 ("[Crime mapping is] highly sensitive to
arbitrary choices made by the researcher, such as the threshold distance, number
of clusters to map, and the shape to draw around clusters of incidents. Altering
one of these choices can substantially alter the resulting map and thereby the
decisions made using the hot spot map.").





n41.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 2 (explaining that each police
department differs in terms of management, information technology resources,
available datasets, policing methods, and software used for predictive policing
).





n42.  Alan O. Sykes, An Introduction to Regression Analysis 1 (Coase-Sandor
Inst. for Law & Econ., Working Paper No. 20, 1993), available at
http://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1050&context=law_
and_economics&sei-redir=1&referer=https%3A%2F%2Fscholar.google.com%2Fscholar%3Fq
%3DAn%2BIntroduction%2Bto%2BRegression%2BAnalysis%26hl%3Den%26as_sdt%3D0%26as_vi
s%3D1%26oi%3Dscholart%26sa%3DX%26ei%3DFeHkVJGaFJHUgwTRsYDYBQ%26ved%3D0CB0QgQMwAA
#search=%22An%20Introduction%20Regression%20Analysis%22.





n43.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 30 (describing the relationship between
input and output variables in linear regression analysis).





n44.  Id. at 29.





n45.  See id. at 10 (describing "predicative analytics" as "large data demand
and high complexity").





n46.  Id. at 29.





n47.  Id. at 31.





n48.  Id.





n49.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 31.





n50.  See id. ("These methods have come under heavy criticism for being
approximate and for giving the false impression that the variables making it
into the final model "cause' the output variable (instead of just happening to
be selected at a given iteration). These warnings aside, stepwise regression
frequently generates very good predictive models.").





n51.  Id. at 32.





N52.  Id.





n53.  Id.





n54.  Citizen Security Challenge: How to Overcome the Challenge and Take Control
with Intelligence Solutions, IBM Corp. 13-19 (2011) [hereinafter Citizen
Security Challenge], available at
http://www.gobiernofacil.go.cr/E-gob/gobiernodigital/eventos/CongresoSeguridad/C
ostaRica_eventGBM.pdf.





n55.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n56.  Id.





n57.  Id.





n58.  Citizen Security Challenge, supra note 54, at 12.





n59.  Christie Vaughn, PredPol Predicts Crime: Mathematical Algorithm Aids
Policing Method, Santa Clara, May 2, 2013, at 3, available at
http://issuu.com/thesantaclara/docs/tsc_050213_fullpdf.





n60.  See Government Technology Magazine Features PredPol Deployment in Tacoma,
PredPol (Sept. 25, 2013),
http://www.predpol.com/government-technology-magazine-features-predpol-deploymen
t-in-tacoma (reporting that the software uses certain features in the
environment that, by their nature, are prone to crime, much like faults are to
earthquakes, and quoting PredPol developer, Jeff Brantingham, who explained,
"[a] shopping mall is a great example. It's a standing crop of cars to be stolen
or to be broken into. It's not going anywhere. It's like a big fault that
produces earthquakes at a regular clip").





n61.  Id.





n62.  See id. ("Crimes also tend to produce aftershocks, as criminals tend to be
creatures of habit and return to the same locations where they found previous
success. So you get these after-crimes that occur near in space and near in time
to previous crimes." (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n63.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 6 (explaining that crime analysts plug
the results of their algorithms into ArcGIS and other GIS packages).





n64.  See id. at 33 (noting that an analyst will need to use a variety of
methods and employ their own knowledge of the jurisdiction when using regression
models).





n65.  Predictive Crime Fighting, supra note 19.





n66.  Perry et al., supra note 2, at 20.





n67.  See id. (identifying a variety of methods that are discussed in the
article including, grid mapping, thematic mapping, covering ellipses, and kernel
density estimation).





n68.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 19 ("One of the key challenges with
partitioning is identifying the most appropriate number of clusters. Although
there are several techniques for determining k, they often yield different
numbers and no theoretical justification for choosing one over the other.").





n69.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 21 (providing a grid map of Washington,
D.C.).





n70.  Id.





n71.  Id. at 20.





n72.  Id. at 21.





n73.  Id. at 20.





n74.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 18 ("Because geographic space is inherently
continuous, the placement of a boundary to delineate a hot spot is somewhat
arbitrary.").





n75.  See id. at 19 ("After clustering, the researcher determines how to display
the clusters spatially. This involves selecting the number of clusters (e.g.,
first-order vs. second-order) to display and the method of delineating the
clusters (e.g., ellipses, convex hulls).").





n76.  Id. at 18.





n77.  Id. at 19 ("An ellipse is generated based on the distribution of the
incidents in a cluster and, by definition, includes geographical space around
each incident, which may comport best with the theory that future crime
incidents will occur in the vicinity of past incidents.").





n78.  Id. at 18-20.





n79.  Id. at 20 ("This category of methods relaxes several of the assumptions
required by traditional partitioning techniques. Although the researcher must
define the number of clusters (k) a priori, incidents can be members of multiple
clusters or no clusters.").





n80.  Bachner, supra note 38, at 20.





n81.  Id. at 16, 20 (identifying possible spatial variables such as stadiums,
shopping malls, hotels, population density, highways and bridges, public
transportation, bars and liquor stores, fast food restaurants, public health
information, and physical decay of infrastructure).





n82.  Id. at 20.





n83.  Id. at 21 ("RTM requires the analyst to identify those characteristics
that predict the risk of a certain type of crime... . The process of
identification is subjective, but should be informed by criminological theories,
existing empirical research, and practitioner knowledge.").





n84.  Id. at 16 ("Seasonal weather patterns, for example, have substantial
predictive power for a variety of crimes, such as suicide and auto thefts. Two
theories dominate the literature to explain why crime rates shift with
seasons.").





n85.  Id. ("The aggression theory states that high temperatures induce feelings
of anger, frustration, and irritation, which lead to aggressive behavior. This
theory has been linked to violent crime, as it is often an expression of human
aggression.").





n86.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 21 ("Just as with the other clustering
methods, the final map is sensitive to analyst judgment. With RTM, the analyst
must determine which risk layers to include in the composite map and which to
exclude. If the risk distribution in the composite map is highly sensitive to
changes in the risk layers, decision-making based on the map becomes exceedingly
difficult.").





n87.  Joseph D'Amico, Stopping Crime in Real Time, Police Chief (Sept. 2006),
available at
http://www.policechiefmagazine.org/magazine/index.cfm?fuseaction=display&article
_id=995&issue_id=92006.





n88.  Id.





n89.  See Memphis Police Dep't, supra note 37 (describing the Memphis Police
Department's RTCC); see also Salary Report Herenton Administration FY2008,
available at
http://www.scribd.com/doc/48982827/Salary-Report-Herenton-Administration-FY2008
(last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (providing a list of officers under the RTCC
payroll title).





n90.  See Guy Adams, LAPD's Sci-Fi Solution to Real Crime, Independent (Jan. 11,
2012), available at
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/lapds-scifi-solution-to-real-cr
ime-6287800.html (interviewing Los Angeles police sergeant John Gomperz, who
explained that he and his colleagues are given maps identifying a handful of
"boxes" measuring 500 feet by 500 feet - the supposed crime hot-spots for that
day).





n91.  See Real Time Crime Center: Criminal Investigations Evolved (2008),
available at https://www-304.ibm.com/easyaccess/fileserve?contentid=217004
(explaining how crime analysts are capable of sending information directly to
officers' Blackberry devices and providing an illustration of the "Cognos 8 Go!
Mobile" Blackberry interface); see also Features, HunchLab,
https://www.hunchlab.com/features/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (demonstrating
how the software pushes information to officer's iPads: "HunchLab pushes
valuable contextual information to officers in the field. The predicted
importance of specific crime types is displayed no matter where the unit is
located within the jurisdiction. Predictive mission areas are displayed when
appropriate along with relevant tactics and spatial notes. It's the perfect
mobile sidekick for your superheroes," and providing an illustration of an iPad
receiving "mission notes"); Technology, PredPol,
http://www.predpol.com/technology/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (providing
another example of what information officers receive from crime analysts).





n92.  See Adams, supra note 90 (demonstrating that predictive crime software
directs where and how police patrol certain areas, and quoting Andrew Ferguson
who has identified the risk that "if police wanted to target certain areas, or
demographics, then they could simply tweak the algorithm to ensure officers
visit certain neighborhoods"); see also Best Practice: Using Data to Target
High-Crime Areas, N.Y.C. Global Partners, 1-3 (2010) [hereinafter Best
Practice], available at
http://www.nyc.gov/html/ia/gprb/downloads/pdf/NYC_Safety%20and%20Security_Operat
ionImpact.pdf (explaining how the New York City Police Department uses software
to identify high crime areas and allocate resources accordingly).





n93.  U.S. Const. amend. IV.





n94.  See Illinois v. Gates, 462 U.S. 213, 235 (1983) (finding that showing
probable cause or reasonable suspicion requires the government to demonstrate
the "probability, and not a prima facie showing, of criminal activity").





n95.  See Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U.S. 103, 112 (1975) ("To implement the Fourth
Amendment's protection against unfounded invasions of liberty and privacy, the
Court has required that the existence of probable cause be decided by a neutral
and detached magistrate whenever possible.").





n96.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 235.





n97.  Id.





n98.  Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123 (2000).





n99.  See Floyd v. City of New York, 959 F. Supp. 2d 540, 581 (S.D.N.Y. 2013)
(finding that "the rate at which officers check High Crime Area in a precinct or
census tract is roughly 55%, regardless of the amount of crime in the precinct
or census tract as measured by crime complaints").





n100.  Bachner, supra note 38, at 6 (indicating that PCS generates predictions
about "where crime is likely to occur and where suspects are likely to be
located").





n101.  Maryland v. Pringle, 540 U.S. 366, 370 (2003) (quoting Brinegar v. United
States, 338 U.S. 160, 176 (1949)).





n102.  Id. at 371.





n103.  Shadwick v. City of Tampa, 407 U.S. 345, 350 (1972).





n104.  Pringle, 540 U.S. at 371 (quoting Ornelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690,
696 (1996)).





n105.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 16-19 ("There is some suggestion in the use of
such terms as "stop' and "frisk' that such police conduct is outside the purview
of the Fourth Amendment because neither action rises to the level of a "search'
or "seizure' within the meaning of the Constitution. We emphatically reject this
... [notion] that the Fourth Amendment does not come into play at all as a
limitation upon police conduct if the officers stop short of something called a
"technical arrest' or a "full-blown search.'" (footnote omitted)).





n106.  Id. at 16.





n107.  See Florida v. Bostick, 501 U.S. 429, 436 (1991) (articulating the test
for determining whether a Terry stop is taking place as "whether a reasonable
person would feel free to decline the officers' requests or otherwise terminate
the encounter"); see also United States v. Glover, 957 F.2d 1004, 1008 (2d Cir.
1992) (holding that the following factors are indicative of a "seizure," a term
that encompasses both Terry stops and arrests: "the threatening presence of
several officers; the display of a weapon; the physical touching of the person
by the officer; language or tone indicating that compliance with the officer was
compulsory; prolonged retention of a person's personal effects, such as airplane
tickets or identification; and a request by the officer to accompany him to the
police station or a police room").





n108.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 16.





n109.  Id. at 17.





n110.  Id. at 16.





n111.  Id. at 29.





n112.  Id. at 12.





n113.  Id. at 29 (citing Warden v. Hayden, 387 U.S. 294, 310 (1967) (Fortas, J.,
concurring)).





n114.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 19.





n115.  Id. at 19-20.





n116.  Id. at 10-11.





n117.  Id. at 10.





n118.  Id. at 30.





n119.  Id. at 21.





n120.  Terry, 392 U.S. at 22.





n121.  United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 273 (2002) (quoting United States
v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417-18 (1981)).





n122.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 123 (citing United States v. Sokolow, 490 U.S. 1, 7
(1989)).





n123.  See Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial Dist. Court of Nevada, Humboldt Cnty., 542
U.S. 177, 197 (2004) (Breyer, Souter, & Ginsburg, JJ., dissenting) (referencing
police conduct involving stops and frisks as a "Terry stop").





n124.  United States v. Swindle, 407 F.3d 562, 566 (2d Cir. 2005) (quoting
Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 7 (1989) (quoting Terry, 392 U.S. at 30)).





n125.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-25 (holding that the officer "was justified
in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in criminal activity" due to his flight
from the police within a high crime area).





n126.  See id. at 123-25 (reasoning that "evasive behavior" can imply
"wrongdoing" and is a strong factor in "determining reasonable suspicion").





n127.  Id. at 121.





n128.  Id.





n129.  See People v. Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d 65, 66 (Ill. App. Ct. 1997) ("Defendant
contends that the circuit court erred in denying his motion to suppress because
his presence in a high crime area and flight from the police officers were
insufficient to justify his investigatory stop."), aff'd, 701 N.E.2d 484 (Ill.
1998), rev'd, 528 U.S. 119 (2000).





n130.  People v. Wardlow, 701 N.E.2d 484, 489 (Ill. 1998), rev'd, 528 U.S. 119
(2000).





n131.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 122.





n132.  Id. at 122-23 (citations omitted).





n133.  407 U.S. 143 (1972).





n134.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-26 (taking into account that the stop took
place in an area known for high-crime in its application of a Terry analysis,
concluding the officer was "justified in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in
criminal activity, and, therefore, in investigating further").





n135.  Id. at 124.





n136.  Id.





n137.  Id. at 125.





n138.  Id. at 124 (emphasis added).





n139.  Id. at 125.





n140.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125 (internal quotation marks omitted).





n141.  Id. ("The determination of reasonable suspicion must be based on
commonsense judgments and inferences about human behavior.") (citation
omitted)).





n142.  See Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d at 67 (accepting the officer's testimony that
their caravan was heading toward a HCA known for "high narcotics traffic").





n143.  See Wardlow, 701 N.E.2d at 485 (accepting that the area of the 11th
District known for "high narcotics traffic" constituted a HCA).





n144.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 137 (finding that the officers were headed for
"one of the areas in the 11th District [of Chicago] that's high [in] narcotics
traffic").





n145.  Id. at 124.





n146.  See id. (discussing that "an area of expected criminal activity, standing
alone, is not enough to support a reasonable, particularized suspicion..." and
suggesting that "expected criminal activity" would constitute a "high crime
area" relevant to this discussion).





n147.  Wardlow, 678 N.E.2d at 68.





n148.  Wardlow, 701 N.E.2d at 486.





n149.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 120 ("Courts do not have available empirical
studies dealing with inferences from suspicious behavior, and this Court cannot
reasonably demand scientific certainty when none exists. Thus, the reasonable
suspicion determination must be based on commonsense judgments and inferences
about human behavior.").





n150.  Andrew Guthrie Ferguson et al., The "High-Crime Area" Question: Requiring
Verifiable and Quantifiable Evidence for Fourth Amendment Reasonable Suspicion
Analysis, 57 Am. U. L. Rev. 1587, 1605 (2008) (citing State v. Biehl, No. 22054,
2004 WL 2806340, at 5 (Ohio Ct. App. 2004)).





n151.  Id. (citing Cunningham v. State, 884 So. 2d 1121, 1122 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 2004)).





n152.  Id. (citing People v. Davis, 815 N.E.2d 92, 98-99 (Ill. Ct. App. 2004);
Slayton v. Commonwealth, 582 S.E.2d 448, 449 (Va. Ct. App. 2003)).





n153.  Id. at 1605-06 (citing United States v. Rogers, No. Crim. 10-10313, 2005
WL 478001, at 1 (D. Mass. Mar. 1, 2005)).





n154.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 128-29 ("A pedestrian may break into a run for a
variety of reasons - to catch up with a friend a block or two away, to seek
shelter from an impending storm, to arrive at a bus stop before the bus leaves,
to get home in time for dinner, to resume jogging after a pause for rest, to
avoid contact with a bore or a bully, or simply to answer the call of nature -
any of which might coincide with the arrival of an officer in the vicinity. A
pedestrian might also run because he or she has just sighted one or more police
officers. In the latter instance, the State properly points out "that the
fleeing person may be, inter alia, (1) an escapee from jail; (2) wanted on a
warrant; (3) in possession of contraband, (i.e. drugs, weapons, stolen goods,
etc.); or (4) someone who has just committed another type of crime."); see also
Alberty v. United States, 162 U.S. 499, 511 (1896) ("It is a matter of common
knowledge that men who are entirely innocent do sometimes fly from the scene of
a crime through fear of being apprehended as the guilty parties, or from an
unwillingness to appear as witnesses. Nor is it true as an accepted axiom of
criminal law that "the wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are
as bold as a lion.' Innocent men sometimes hesitate to confront a jury - not
necessarily because they fear that the jury will not protect them, but because
they do not wish their names to appear in connection with criminal acts, are
humiliated at being obliged to incur the popular odium of an arrest and trial,
or because they do not wish to be put to the annoyance or expense of defending
themselves.").





n155.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 126 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissenting
in part).





n156.  Id.





n157.  Id. at 128.





n158.  Id.





n159.  See id. ("The relevant inquiry concerning the inferences and conclusions
a court draws is not whether particular conduct is innocent or guilty, but the
degree of suspicion that attaches to particular types of noncriminal acts."
(quoting Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n160.  United States v. Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d 1122, 1143 (9th Cir. 2000).





n161.  See Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1605 (emphasis added) (citing
Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d at 1143 (Kozinski, J., concurring)) (describing Judge
Kozinski's opinion).





n162.  208 F.3d 1122 (9th Cir. 2000).





n163.  Id. at 1137.





n164.  See Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1609 (emphasis added) (citing
Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d at 1139 n.32) (requiring data and "more than mere war
stories" to establish a HCA).





n165.  Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d at 1138.





n166.  363 F.3d 213 (3d Cir. 2004).





n167.  See Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1611 (citing United States v.
Bonner, 363 F.3d 213, 216 (2004)) (explaining that although the Court was
presented with data of frequent arrests, given the high population within the
area and the types of arrests, the Court found the area was not a HCA).





n168.  Id.





n169.  Id.





n170.  Bonner, 363 F.3d at 216 ("Despite this offer of proof, the district court
found that given the large amount of people who live in the housing project, the
area was not high in crime.").





n171.  Id. at 218 (Smith, J., concurring) (outlining Judge Smith's stance on
what method of proof and standard of proof should be required to make a
determination on the character of the area).





n172.  Id. at 218.





n173.  485 F.3d 45 (1st Cir. 2007).





n174.  United States v. Wright, 485 F.3d 45, 53-54 (1st Cir. 2007).





n175.  Id.





n176.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124-25.





n177.  Id. at 125.





n178.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 20 ("[Crime mapping is] highly sensitive
to arbitrary choices made by the researcher, such as the threshold distance,
number of clusters to map, and the shape to draw around clusters of incidents.
Altering one of these choices can substantially alter the resulting map and
thereby the decisions made using the hot spot map.").





n179.  Id.





n180.  Id. at 121 (accepting the officer's testimony that their caravan was
heading toward a HCA known for "high narcotics traffic"); see Map and Direction,
Chi. Police,
https://portal.chicagopolice.org/portal/page/portal/ClearPath/Communities/Distri
cts/District11/Map%20and%20Direction (last visited Jan 11, 2014) (indicating the
precise location of Wardlow's arrest).





n181.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 137 (stating that the officers testified that
they were "caravanning" eastbound down Van Buren toward an area known for
narcotics trafficking).





n182.  Id.





n183.  Id.





n184.  Id.





n185.  407 U.S. 143 (1972).





n186.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 120 (citing Adams v. Williams, 407 U.S. 143, 144
(1972) ("[A] location's characteristics are relevant in determining whether the
circumstances are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation.").





n187.  378 U.S. 108 (1964).





n188.  393 U.S. 410 (1969).





n189.  See, e.g., Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410, 415 (1969)
(indicating that the "standards enunciated in Aguilar must inform the
magistrate's decision").





n190.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 228-29.





n191.  See Spinelli, 393 U.S. at 415 (affirming the principle that probable
cause must be determined by a natural and detached magistrate).





n192.  Id. at 416.





n193.  See id. (finding an informant's tip inadequate for failing to provide a
"sufficient statement of the underlying circumstances").





n194.  Id. at 418.





n195.  Id. at 416.





n196.  358 U.S. 307 (1959).





n197.  Spinelli, 393 U.S. at 426-28 (White, J., concurring).





n198.  Draper v. United States, 358 U.S. 307, 309 (1959).





n199.  Spinelli, 393 U.S. at 426-27 (White, J., concurring).





n200.  Id. at 427.





n201.  Gates, 462 U.S. at 244 (stating that while this new standard may not
satisfy the ""reliability' or "veracity' necessary to satisfy some views of the
"veracity prong' of Spinelli ... we think it suffices for the practical,
common-sense judgment called for in making a probable cause determination").





n202.  Id. at 244-45.





n203.  Id. at 246.





n204.  See Adams, 407 U.S. at 149 (holding that an officer is not required to
present the same level of specific evidence when establishing probable cause as
he would need to demonstrate to support a conviction).





n205.  Id. at 145.





n206.  Id.





n207.  Id.





n208.  Id.





n209.  Id.





n210.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 145.





n211.  Id. at 147.





n212.  Id.





n213.  Id.





n214.  Id. at 149.





n215.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125 (finding that the "reasonable suspicion
determination must be based on [the officer's] commonsense judgments and
inferences about human behavior").





n216.  See id. at 122 ("[The officer] conducted a protective patdown search for
weapons because in his experience it was common for there to be weapons in the
near vicinity of narcotics transactions.").





n217.  See Gates, 462 U.S. at 244 (discussing the corroboration of anonymous
tips by police investigative work); Adams, 407 U.S. at 149 (explaining the
circumstantial analysis engaged by courts determining whether an officer had
probable cause).





n218.  See Adams, supra note 90 (explaining how crime analysts provide officers
with areas of heightened criminal activity).





n219.  See generally O'Connell, supra note 28 (explaining how NYPD's CompStat
model that relied heavily on data-driven policing was subsequently adopted and
replicated in cities throughout the United States).





n220.  Best Practice, supra note 92.





n221.  Id.





n222.  See id. (defining the impact zones as precincts "Midtown South, Midtown
North, 19th, 23rd, 25th, 32nd, 40th, 44th, 46th, 52nd, 67th, 70th, 73rd, 77th,
83rd, 103rd,104th, 107th, 110th, 115th, 120th and PSA 7 in the 40th and PSA 2 in
the 73rd (Housing)").





n223.  See id. (quoting Mayor Bloomberg describing these zones as "high-crime
areas").





n224.  See Best Practice, supra note 92 ("Mapping and analyzing crime data -
type, location, time, and date - enables the Department to delineate the zones
appropriately.").





n225.  Id.





n226.  See Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly
Announce Operation Impact II, Office of the Mayor (Jan. 12, 2004) [hereinafter
Operation Impact II],
http://www.nyc.gov/portal/site/nycgov/menuitem.c0935b9a57bb4ef3daf2f1c701c789a0/
index.jsp?pageID=mayor_press_release&catID=1194&doc_name=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nyc.go
v%2Fhtml%2Fom%2Fhtml%2F2004a%2Fpr007-04.html&cc=unused1978&rc=1194&ndi=1 ("The
NYPD coordinated its efforts with the five District Attorneys and assigned
Police Academy graduates to field training in the impact zones."); see also Best
Practice, supra note 92 ("Beginning in January 2003, the NYPD began to deploy a
majority of its Academy's graduating officers via Operation Impact to twenty
Impact Zones throughout the city."); On the Beat with NYPD's Rookie Class,
Mother Jones,
http://www.motherjones.com/photoessays/2011/09/nypd-rookies-dangerous-beat/mott-
haven (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) ("For more than seven years, the first
assignment for nearly all rookie New York City police officers has been to
patrol "impact zones' with the highest crime rates, often on foot and without
backup. The program is credited with decreasing crime but has also been blamed
for officer burnout and overly aggressive tactics."); Jonathan Lemire, Bill
Thompson Says NYPD's Operation Impact Should Use Veteran Cops, Not Rookies, N.Y.
Daily News (Apr. 11, 2013, 11:56 PM),
http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/thompson-flip-operation-impact-head-article-
1.1314320#ixzz2qEWdLnvM ("Operation Impact, launched in 2003, floods violent
areas with rookie cops to supplement regular manpower and enhance police
presence on the streets.").





n227.  See Lemire, supra note 226 ("You have, every six months, hundreds -
sometimes as many as 1,500 - rookie officers graduating, [NYPD Deputy
Commissioner Paul] Browne said. That gives us flexibility to assign large
numbers of officers to Impact." (internal quotation marks omitted)).





n228.  Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 573.





n229.  Id. at 572.





n230.  Id.





n231.  Id. at 644.





n232.  Id. at 574.





n233.  Id. at 581.





n234.  See Best Practice, supra note 92 (indicating certain precincts represent
impact zones); see also Operation Impact II, supra note 226 (expanding Operation
Impact by increasing the number of precincts categorized as impact zones).





n235.  Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 578.





n236.  See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124 ("Officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whether the circumstances
are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation. Accordingly, we
have previously noted the fact that the stop occurred in a "high crime area'
among the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry analysis." (citing Adams
407 U.S. at 147-48)).





n237.  See Adam Klasfeld, Whistleblower Testifies at NYPD Stop-and-Frisk Trial,
Court House News Serv. (Mar. 20, 2013, 11:29 AM),
http://www.courthousenews.com/2013/03/20/55872.htm (describing a trial
challenging the city's stop-and-frisk practices where "a suspended veteran
officer testified ... that superior officers pushed quotas during roll call
meetings").





n238.  See Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 581 ("The rate at which officers check High
Crime Area in a precinct or census tract is roughly 55%, regardless of the
amount of crime in the precinct or census tract as measured by crime
complaints.").





n239.  See id. at 575 ("For the years 2004 to 2009, stops were 22% more likely
to result in arrest if "High Crime Area' was not checked.").





n240.  See Alex Pareene, Kelly's Creative Writing: Stop-and-frisk and Muslim
Surveillance Are Wonderful!, Salon (July 23, 2013, 9:00 AM),
http://www.salon.com/2013/07/23/kelly_stop_and_frisk_and_muslim_surveillance_are
_wonderful/ (noting that the NYPD "carried out more than 200,000 illegal
stop-and-frisks" from January to July, 2013 by police officers who were
"generally outsiders, always inexperienced").





n241.  See Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 581 (The rate at which officers check High
Crime Area in a precinct or census tract is roughly 55%, regardless of the
amount of crime in the precinct or census tract as measured by crime
complaints.").





n242.  Id. at 589.





n243.  See id. at 590 ("The NYPD has known for more than a decade that its
officers were conducting unjustified stops and frisks and were
disproportionately stopping blacks and Hispanics. Despite this notice, the NYPD
expanded its use of stop and frisk by seven-fold between 2002 and 2011.").





n244.  J. David Goodman, Bratton Says Rookies' Role in Anticrime Effort Will
End, N.Y. Times, (Jan. 31, 2014),
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/01/nyregion/bratton-tells-chiefs-hell-stop-sendin
g-rookies-to-high-crime-areas.html?_r=0.





n245.  See Pareene, supra note 240 (emphasizing that as officers, crime analysts
must conform to police policies designed to reduce crime, such as Operation
Impact, and/or be subject to pressures from superior officers resulting from
quota systems).





n246.  Perry et al., supra note 2, at 65-67 ("Shreveport Police Department
staff, with the assistance of crime analysts, collected field interview and tip
information and distributed that information back to officers so they could take
action the next day. The crime analysts worked with district officers to develop
daily maps showing not just the predictions but also key situational awareness
data, including information on recent crimes... . The analysts then worked with
district commanders to select target areas for each day.").





n247.  See Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 589 ("[The] NYPD carries out more stops in
areas with more black and Hispanic residents, even when other relevant variables
are held constant. The best predictor for the rate of stops in a geographic unit
- be it precinct or census tract - is the racial composition of that unit rather
than the known crime rate").





n248.  See Terry, 392 U.S. at 22 (noting that "good faith on the part of the
arresting officer is not enough" to find reasonable suspicion) (citing Beck v.
Ohio, 379 U.S. 89, 97-98 (1964)).





n249.  Id. at 30.





n250.  Id. at 23.





n251.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 122.





n252.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 146 (finding that an officer is "justified in
believing that the individual whose suspicious behavior he is investigating at
close range is armed and presently dangerous to the officer or to others" when
provided information from an informant "known personally" and who had "provided
information to him in the past").





n253.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. 132 (Stevens, J., dissenting) ("Among some citizens,
particularly minorities and those residing in high crime areas, there is also
the possibility that the fleeing person is entirely innocent, but, with or
without justification, believes that contact with the police can itself be
dangerous, apart from any criminal activity associated with the officer's sudden
presence.").





n254.  See Bachner, supra note 38, at 20 (explaining that PCS analysis
color-codes geographic areas to indicate varying levels of predicted criminal
activity).





n255.  See id. at 19 (explaining crime mapping is "highly sensitive to arbitrary
choices made by the researcher, such as the threshold distance, number of
clusters to map, and the shape to draw around clusters of incidents" and that
"altering one of these choices can substantially alter the resulting map and
thereby the decisions made using the hot spot map").





n256.  Id.





n257.  See Perry et al., supra note 2, at 20-29, 46-48 (differentiating the
characteristics between "grid mapping," "covering ellipses," "single and dual
kernel density estimation," "heat maps," and other spatiotemporal modeling
methods).





n258.  See Citizen Security Challenge supra note 54, at 13-19 (providing
illustrations of the "Commander Dashboard").





n259.  Id. at 26.





n260.  Id. at 13-19 (illustrating the different panels on the dashboard).





n261.  Id. at 18.





n262.  Id.





n263.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 122 ("In [the officer's] experience it was common
for there to be weapons in the near vicinity of narcotics transactions.").





n264.  Stuart, supra note 18.





n265.  Id.





n266.  Id.





n267.  See Reyes, supra note 39 (explaining that, during 2013, Philadelphia
became the first big city to use HunchLab's PCS).





n268.  Features, supra note 91.





n269.  Phila. Police Dep't, Crime Fighting Strategy Presented to Mayor Michael
A. Nutter 4 (2008).





n270.  Id. at 11 (emphasis added).





n271.  Id.





n272.  See, e.g., Bonner, 363 F.3d at 218-20 (Smith, J., concurring) ("I write
separately only to highlight an issue implicated in the District Court's
fact-finding which we have not been required to address: whether under the
flight "plus' analysis of Wardlow, the government is required to prove the
existence of objective criteria for what constitutes a high crime area.").





n273.  Ferguson, supra note 2, at 221.





n274.  Id.





n275.  Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1640-43.





n276.  Ferguson, supra note 2, at 221-22.





n277.  Alabama v. White, 496 U.S. 325, 329 (1990) (quoting Terry, 392 U.S. at
27).





n278.  Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 273 (quoting Cortez, 449 U.S. at 417-18).





n279.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124 (citing Adams, 407 U.S. at 144).





n280.  See id. (indicating that "officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whether the circumstances
are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation," and that as a
result, the court "had previously noted the fact that the stop occurred in a
"high crime area' among the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry
analysis"); Ferguson et al., supra note 150, at 1627 (indicating that PCS
provides information about the relevant characteristics of HCAs for the purpose
of Terry analyses).





n281.  534 U.S. 266 (2002).





n282.  Id. at 272.





n283.  Id. at 274.





n284.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 149 (quoting Brinegar, 338 U.S. at 175).





n285.  Sokolow, 490 U.S. at 2.





n286.  Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 267.





n287.  See Wright, 485 F.3d at 53-54 (stating that evidence on what constitutes
a HCA "could include a mix of objective data and the testimony of police
officers, describing their experiences in the area"); Montero-Camargo, 208 F.3d
at 1138 (stating that lower courts "must carefully examine the testimony of
police officers and make a fair and forthright evaluation of the evidence" when
an area is cited as a HCA).





n288.  Floyd, 959 F. Supp. 2d at 667.





n289.  Id.





n290.  See, e.g., Sample Law Enforcement Operations Manual, Ga. Ass'n of Chiefs
of Police 28 (Apr. 1, 2014),
http://www.gachiefs.com/word%20docs/Chapter%203%20-%20Organization-Administratio
n%202014.doc (indicating that crime analysis "shall be a function of the Chief
Executive Officer's Office").





n291.  Id.





n292.  Fed. Election Comm'n v. NRA Political Victory Fund, 513 U.S. 88, 95-96
(1994) ("We recognize sound policy reasons may exist for providing the FEC with
independent litigating authority in this Court for actions enforcing the FECA.
Congress's decision to create the FEC as an independent agency and to charge it
with the civil enforcement of the FECA was undoubtedly influenced by Congress'
belief that the Justice Department, headed by a Presidential appointee, might
choose to ignore infractions committed by members of the President's own
political party.").





n293.  Id.





n294.  Id.





n295.  Id.





n296.  Id.





n297.  Id.





n298.  See Commissioner William J. Bratton, N.Y.C. Police Dep't,
http://www.nyc.gov/html/nypd/html/administration/headquarters_co.shtml (last
visited Jan. 28, 2015) ("William J. Bratton has been appointed the 42nd police
commissioner of the City of New York by Mayor Bill de Blasio."); see also Mayor
Walsh Appoints William B. Evans Police Commissioner of the Boston Police
Department, Superintendent William Gross Named First African-American Chief in
Department History, City of Bos. (Jan. 9, 2014),
http://www.cityofboston.gov/news/default.aspx?id=6479 ("Mayor Martin J. Walsh
announced that he will appoint Interim Police Commissioner William B. Evans as
Police Commissioner of the Boston Police Department, and Superintendent William
Gross as Superintendent in Chief of the Boston Police Department.").





n299.  See generally Carl Matthies & Tina Chiu, Putting a Value on Crime
Analysts: Considerations for Law Enforcement Executives, VERA Inst. Just. (Mar.
2014),
http://www.vera.org/sites/default/files/resources/downloads/putting-value-crime-
analysts.pdf (assessing the value of a crime analysts by identifying his or her
responsibilities, which include generating products that apply to the
responsibilities and needs of line-level officers, first-line supervisors,
managers, and commanders).





n300.  See Ferguson, supra note 2, at 129 (discussing the constitutional
consequences that emerge when police administrators draw HCA lines, creating
officially designated HCAs, and street-level officers rely on this information
in making a Terry stop).





n301.  See Storch, supra note 29, at 4 (explaining that New York City
experienced an 80.2% decline in the burglary rate, a 77.7% decline in reported
robberies, and a 79% drop in the murder rate from 1993 to 2007); Bartholomew
Sullivan, Memphis Police's Blue CRUSH Program Gives IBM Company a Boost,
Commercial Appeal (Sept. 19, 2010, 12:04 AM)
http://www.commercialappeal.com/news/2010/sep/19/blue-crush-gives-ibm-a-boost/?p
rint=1 (claiming that the Memphis Police Department's "Blue CRUSH predictive
analytics-driven crime-fighting effort" reduced serious crime by fifteen percent
over four years); see also Stuart, supra note 18 (reporting that the Santa Cruz
Police Department claims that crime dropped four or eleven percent over a six
month period since implementing PredPol's PCS).





n302.  See Features, supra note 91 (providing an example of an iPad receiving
the addresses of three recent burglaries).





n303.  See Perry et al., supra note 2 at xx ("Data censoring involves omitting
data for incidents of interest in particular places (and at particular times).
If the data are censored, it will appear that there is no crime in a given
areas.").





n304.  See id. (explaining that data with little value should be omitted).





n305.  Yoav Gonen, De Blasio to Weigh In On "Independent' Cop Monitor, N.Y. Post
(Jan. 31, 2014, 2:36 AM),
http://nypost.com/2014/01/31/de-blasio-to-weigh-in-on-independent-cop-monitor/.





n306.  Maria Jofre, Analysis of Criminal Behavior Using a Logistic Regression
Model, NSW Gov't,
http://www.bocsar.nsw.gov.au/agdbasev7wr/_assets/bocsar/m716854l1/poster_jofre.p
df (last visited Jan. 28, 2015) (providing an analysis of criminal behavior
using a logistic regression model).





n307.  See id. (identifying some of the characteristics used in the logistic
regression model).





n308.  How PredPol Works - Predictive Policing, Predpol,
http://www.predpol.com/how-predpol-works/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015).





n309.  Proven Results of Our Predictive Policing Software, Predpol,
http://www.predpol.com/results/ (last visited Jan. 28, 2015).





n310.  White, 496 U.S. at 329.





n311.  Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 273.





n312.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124.





n313.  Adams, 407 U.S. at 148.





n314.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125.





n315.  See Commissioner William J. Bratton, supra note 298 (announcing Mayor
Bill de Blasio appointed William J. Bratton as commissioner of New York City);
see also City of Bos., supra note 298 (announcing that Mayor Martin J. Walsh
appointed William B. Evans as Police Commissioner of the Boston Police
Department and William Gross as Superintendent in Chief of the Boston Police
Department).





n316.  See, e.g., N.Y. City Charter as Amended through July 2004, City of N.Y.
(July 2004), http://home2.nyc.gov/html/charter/downloads/pdf/citycharter2004.pdf
(demonstrating the hierarchy by providing that, whenever it is in the judgment
of the mayor, the commissioner may be removed and not be subject to
reappointment).





n317.  See generally Matthies & Chiu, supra note 299 (describing the duties of
crime analysts to report data to supervisors as part of their role within the
structure of a police department).





n318.  See id. (acknowledging the responsibilities that crime analysts owe to
their supervisors, the possibility that an analyst would prioritize serving the
political or policy objectives of their supervisors over providing objective
analysis may exist).





n319.  Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 125.





n320.  Id. at 123 ("While "reasonable suspicion' is a less demanding standard
than probable cause and requires a showing considerably less than preponderance
of the evidence, the Fourth Amendment requires at least a minimum level of
objective justification for making the stop.").





n321.  Id. at 122.


                               3 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1662 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, Los Angeles County District Attorney Jackie Lacey and
Supervisors Don Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Department Cmdr. Robert Olmsted touts himself as the
whistle-blower  who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Department Lt. Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and
2002. He once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his
family, supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1
million payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a reserve deputy sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union Legal Director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better health
care system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             March 21, 2014 Friday

New leader for Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department must overcome scandals to
rebuild public trust

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1658 words


The June 3 election will force a rare changing of the guard at the Los Angeles
County Sheriff s Department, and voters are charged with choosing the candidate
who would not only lead the troubled law enforcement agency into the future, but
restore public trust.

The recent barrage of scandals   everything from favoritism in hiring to
obstruction of justice   that ended former Sheriff Lee Baca s 16-year tenure may
have disheartened voters, but Loyola Law School professor Laurie Levenson hopes
they ll troop to the polls anyway.

This is not the time to become apathetic or discouraged,  she said.  This is an
opportunity for the people of the county to shape one of the most crucial
departments serving them.

The Sheriff s Department, frankly, does a lot more than any other law
enforcement agency that exists,  she added.  People would be surprised at how
much the work of the Sheriff s Department touches their lives on a day-to-day
basis.

Voters should take this election seriously,  agreed Claremont McKenna College
politics professor Jack Pitney.  Our safety depends on it.

Largest in the world

Los Angeles County has the largest Sheriff s Department in the world, with a
budget of $2.8 billion and more than 17,000 employees   enough to nearly fill
the seats at Staples Center. The person elected sheriff earns a salary of around
$300,000.

About 9,000 of those personnel have sworn an oath to  protect and serve,  making
LASD the fourth-largest law enforcement agency in the nation, behind the New
York, Chicago and Los Angeles police departments.

Deputies patrol the county s unincorporated areas and 42 of its 88 incorporated
cities   total population: 3 million. Wearing tan-and-green uniforms, they walk
the gang-infested streets of East Los Angeles and keep a lookout for wildfires
in the Angeles National Forest.

LASD also secures courthouses   where deputies serve as bailiffs   community
colleges, government buildings, parks, marinas and the vast network of buses and
trains operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
and Metrolink.

Its jail system   the largest in the world   holds an average of 18,000-20,000
inmates a day, about 17 percent of whom are believed to have mental illness. The
Vera Institute of Justice estimated it costs $95-$140 per day to house each
inmate, without factoring in the cost of mental health treatment.

Vanir Construction Management, a private contractor hired by the county to look
into building a new jail, estimated about half of those behind bars haven t been
convicted of a crime but aren t able to afford bail and are awaiting trial. Most
of the arrests are made by the LAPD and other police departments, as well as
probation officers and parole agents.

The sheriff s badge, shaped like a six-pointed star, has been tarnished by the
recent federal indictment of almost two dozen deputies, sergeants and
lieutenants for various allegations that include abuse at the jails, hiding an
informant from the FBI and threatening an FBI agent outside her home.

Reforms are under way but Miriam Krinsky, executive director of the blue ribbon
Citizen s Commission on Jail Violence, stressed a new sheriff is  vital to
restoring the confidence of the community.

Unless and until there s new leadership and an ongoing independent civilian eye
(similar to the CCJV) that never moves the spotlight away from the department,
we re going to see some of these negative cycles repeat themselves,  she warned.

The reforms are a work in progress,  agreed Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky.  It ll
be up to the next sheriff to implement the changes.

The candidates

James McDonnell is the only department outsider in the race, having spent the
bulk of his career at the Los Angeles Police Department, where he was
second-in-command to former Chief William Bratton.

Now chief of the Long Beach Police Department, McDonnell has what is arguably
the most impressive list of endorsements, including those of state Attorney
General Kamala Harris, county District Attorney Jackie Lacey and Supervisors Don
Knabe and Yaroslavsky.

I d bring in a fresh perspective as an outsider,  McDonnell said.  I have no
relationships within the organization that could cloud that (and) I ve been
involved in the transformation of two police departments that had issues.

I sat on the Citizens Commission on Jail Violence and got an education on what
was wrong and what needed to be done in the jails and throughout the LASD,  he
added.

Gardena Mayor Paul Tanaka was once Baca s second-in-command, until they had a
bitter falling out. The former undersheriff is also a certified public
accountant, and served as the department s budget manager.

As a 31-year veteran of the department, I m the only candidate who has the
institutional knowledge that is critical for restoring trust and credibility to
the organization,  he said.  The position of sheriff is too big and too
important for on-the-job training.

The commission, however, blamed Tanaka for some of the abuses at the jails,
citing evidence that he urged deputies to be aggressive and  function right on
the edge of the line  or  work in the gray area  (somewhere between what is
legal and not).

Two other members of Baca s inner circle are in the running: Assistant Sheriff
Todd Rogers is currently in charge of budget and personnel, while Assistant
Sheriff James Hellmold directs the patrol and detective divisions.

Rogers believes Baca trusted the wrong people, saying,  The problem is, bad
apples were given too much authority.

They were not qualified and they seriously abused that authority,  he added.
That is unacceptable and I will bring reforms.

Hellmold advocates fulfilling the department s core functions while embracing
new technologies.

Public safety simply means continuing the lowest crime levels in more than 40
years,  he said.  It also means responding to calls for service quickly,
ensuring emergency preparedness and school safety, and modernizing the Sheriff s
Department to deal with the rising cybercrime and identity theft.

Retired Sheriff s Commander Robert Olmsted touts himself as the  whistleblower
who alerted the FBI about the misconduct at the jails.

It s shameful what happened to this great department,  Olmsted said.  The
leaders set the tone, and they created a culture where rogue deputies and the
command staff violated the law and their sacred oath.

Retired Sheriff s Lieutenant Patrick Gomez ran against Baca in 1998 and 2002. He
once sued the department for denying him promotions and harassing his family,
supposedly because he challenged Baca. He ended up winning a nearly $1 million
payout.

Gomez vowed to correct the failings of the previous leadership, and urged voters
to reject candidates who had been in Baca s inner circle.

I cannot sit back and let them destroy the department any more than they already
have,  he said.

Los Angeles Police Department Senior Detective Supervisor Lou Vince is a former
Marine who also volunteered in the LASD as a Reserve Deputy Sheriff for four
years, and holds a master s degree in criminology. He plans to enhance crime
fighting by using  computer statistics and predictive policing,  and to install
additional cameras, even in patrol cars, to increase transparency.

I don t believe the Sheriff s Department has been beset by corruption or scandal
I believe it s been best by poor management, poor leadership,  he said.

Choose wisely

Levenson, the criminal law professor, said the new sheriff must meet stringent
criteria.

I think integrity is key,  she said.  It should be somebody who s experienced in
law enforcement, and who has the confidence of law enforcement personnel.

He should be a good manager, politically savvy, and with a great deal of courage
to take on the different issues that confront the county   from homeland
security to modern approaches toward law enforcement, even inmate rehabilitation
and penal reform,  she added.

If a candidate were to win the majority of votes on June 3, the county Board of
Supervisors could remove interim Sheriff John Scott, and appoint the
sheriff-elect to lead the department immediately. If no candidate exceeds 50
percent, the top two would face a runoff election on Nov. 4 and the winner would
be sworn in Dec. 1.

If voters choose poorly, the consequences can be costly   literally.

County taxpayers paid about $40 million last year in settlements and jury
verdicts for illegal behavior on the part of the Sheriff s Department,  American
Civil Liberties Union legal director Peter Eliasberg said.

I believe most taxpayers would rather spend that on new parks, a better
healthcare system, et cetera, than jury verdicts and settlements for Sheriff s
Department malfeasance,  he added.

If voters make a mistake, they may have to live with it for a long, long time.
There are no term limits on a sheriff. Even though incumbents are up for
re-election every four years, they have virtually insurmountable advantages over
challengers.

To be viable, candidates would need to wage an expensive campaign throughout the
4,000-square mile county, from the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando, San
Gabriel, Santa Clarita and Antelope Valleys, and even Catalina Island.

The Sheriff s Department was created in 1850, back when Los Angeles was the Wild
West and deputies rode in posses   and yet Baca is only its 30th sheriff.

He and his predecessor, Sherman Block, each served 16 years. Neither was
unseated by a challenger   Baca retired, and Block died in office only days
before the election in which Baca challenged him.

Before them, Peter Pitchess and Eugene Biscailuz were in office 23 and 26 years,
respectively.

Voters need to get this right,  said Patrisse Cullors-Brignac, who founded the
Coalition to End Sheriff Violence after deputies allegedly maltreated her
mentally ill brother in jail.  I will be living with this sheriff until I have
kids, and my kids will probably be living with this sheriff too   that s just
how it works.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 22 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 2014 Vera Institute of Justice, Inc.

                          Federal Sentencing Reporter

  PRIMARY MATERIAL: Letter to Patti B. Saris, Chair, United States Sentencing
                                   Commission

                            [NO NUMBER IN ORIGINAL]

                              27 Fed. Sent. R. 256


   JONATHAN J. WROBLWESKI, Director Office of Policy and Legislation U.S.
Department of Justice

                                 July 29, 2014

LENGTH: 5655 words

TEXT:


The Honorable Patti B. Saris, Chair
United States Sentencing Commission
One Columbus Circle, NE
Suite 2-500, South Lobby
Washington, DC 20002-8002

Dear Judge Saris:

   The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 requires the Criminal Division to submit to
the United States Sentencing Commission, at least annually, a report commenting
on the operation of the sentencing guidelines, suggesting changes to the
guidelines that appear to be warranted, and otherwise assessing the Commission's
work. 28 U.S.C. § 994(o) (2006). We are pleased to submit this report pursuant
to the Act. The report also responds to the Commission's request for public
comment on its proposed priorities for the guideline amendment year ending May
1, 2015. Notice of Proposed Priorities and Request for Public Comment, 79 Fed.
Reg. 31409 (June 2, 2014).

   The Promise and Danger of Data Analytics in Sentencing and Corrections Policy

   Eleven years ago, Michael Lewis released Moneyball, n1 a book describing how
Billy Beane, the general manager of Major League Baseball's Oakland Athletics,
used what was then considered massive amounts of statistical data to predict the
future performance of baseball players. Beane built a winning ballelub by
collecting promising players identified by his statistical models who had been
passed over by other teams. These players then went on to overachieve at a
startling rate. Beane succeeded by replacing the traditional method of
evaluating baseball talent being used by most Major League clubs with something
new. In the traditional method, older experienced baseball men "scouted" players
-- watching the players perform and using their accumulated wisdom and judgment
to identify those players who, they believed, would succeed into the future.
These scouts were indeed the qualitative experts of baseball at the time. But
Beane saw the value in analyzing past performance data in a more sophisticated
and rigorous way to dramatically improve the building of a baseball team by more
accurately predicting the future performance of players than scouts ever could.
Finding value through data, Beane built a winning team at a low cost.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n1 MICHAEL LEWIS, MONEYBALL: THE ART OF WINNING AN UNFAIR GAME (2003). Other
commentators have also seen the value of Moneyball as a particularly
illustrative example of how data analytics can outperform human decision making
in all sorts of endeavors. See, e.g., Kate Torgovnick May, infra note 2. These
include scholars and practitioners who have made the connection between
Moneyball and criminal justice. See, e.g., Dawinder S. Sidhu, Moneyball
Sentencing, (July 8, 2014), available at SSAN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2463876
or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2463876, Anne Milgram, infra note 7.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Since the publishing of Lewis' book, there has been an explosion in the use
of data analytics to identify patterns of human behavior and experience and
bring new insights to fields of nearly every kind. n2 The story of analytics in
industry after industry often follows the pattern found in Moneyball. n3 The
qualitative experts in a field -- the wise men and women with years of
experience -- are outdone by a statistical researcher with little field
knowledge, and even less experience, but with a tremendous understanding of
modern data analysis. The researcher knows what the wise men and women have a
tough time grasping: that an algorithm working on a problem thousands of times
faster than traditional methods can bring new understanding of a correlation or
sometimes even a specific cause and effect. Scientists have known for some time
now that when sufficient information can be collected and quantified,
statistical analysis will outperform an individual almost every time. The growth
in computing power, storage capacity and statistical and computational methods
has brought this reality to new areas of human experience at a growing pace. We
have seen the linking of diverse datasets, the deployment of sophisticated
analytics and algorithms, and the advancement in knowledge of human behavior
applied to everything from marketing to medicine; genomics to agriculture;
banking to matchmaking. n4

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n2 Kate Torgovnick May, The Moneyball Effect: How Smart Data is Transforming
Criminal Justice, Healthcare, Music, and even Government Spending, TED: IDEAS
WORTH SPREADING (Jan. 28, 2014, 12:26 PM),
http://blog.ted.com/2014/01/28/the-moneyball-effect-how-smart-data-is-transfonni
ng-criminal-justice-healtheare-music-and-even-government-spending/.

   n3 See Lewis, supra note 1.

   n4 See Torgovnick May, supra note 2.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   In criminal justice, the use of analytics is not new, of course. CompStat,
the New York City Police Department's management tool -- now replicated and
deployed in many other police departments across the country has, for example,
been used for decades to allocate police resources efficiently by mapping where
crime has occurred and predicting where and when crimes are most likely to occur
in the future. n5 The analytics of policing are evolving steadily and Predictive
Policing -- the use of algorithms that combine historical and up-to-the-minute
crime information to do the work of hundreds of traditional crime analysts and
produce real-time targeted patrol areas -- is spreading. n6 Judges are also
beginning to adopt risk assessment tools based on data analytics in pretrial
hearings. Recently, former New Jersey Attorney General Anne Milgram -- who first
connected Moneyball and criminal justice -- together with the Arnold Foundation,
developed a "comprehensive, universal risk assessment" tool that is already
being used by judges at pretrial hearings in every county in Kentucky. n7

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n5 See BUREAU OF JUSTICE ASSISTANCE, U.S. DEP'T OF JUSTICE & POLICE EXECUTIVE
RESEARCH FORUM, COMPSTAT: ITS ORIGINS, EVOLUTION, AND FUTURE IN LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES (2013), available at
https://www.bja.gov/Publications/PERF-Compstat.pdf.

   n6 See, e.g., Gordon Tokumatsu, LAPD Rolls Out "Predictive Policing" to
Prevent Crime, NBC LOS ANGELES, (Feb. 11, 2014, 10:39 PM),
http://www.nbclosangeles.com/news/local/LAPD-Rolls-Out-Predictive-Policing
-Prevent-Crime-245073541.html; see also, Wm F. Cody, Predictive Policing--Law
Enforcement's New Cyber Tool, LAW ENFORCEMENT TODAY (Jan. 15, 2012),
http://www.lawenforcementtoday.com/2012/01/15/predictive-policing
-%E2%80%93-law-enforeements-new-cyber-tooll.

   n7 Anne Milgram, Why Smart Statistics are the Key to Fighting Crime, TED:
IDEAS WORTH SPREADING (Oct. 2013),
http://www.ted.com/talks/anne_milgram_why_smart_statistics_are_the_key_to_tighti
ng_crime; Leila Walsh, Laura and John Arnold Foundation Develops National Model
for Pretrial Risk Assessments, LAURA AND JOHN ARNOLD FOUNDATION (Nov. 14, 2013),
http://www.arnoldfoundation.org/laura-and-john-amold-foundation-develops-nationa
l-model-pretrial-risk-assessments.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Similarly, predictive analysis has been part of sentencing and corrections in
the United States for many decades. The rehabilitative model of sentencing and
corrections, which was at the heart of the creation of the modern penitentiary
and which dominated sentencing and corrections policy in the U.S. until the late
20th Century, was fundamentally based on predicting future behavior.


     After a sentencing judge had imposed a prison term, which sometimes
     would be set in a range as broad as one year to life, prison and
     parole officials were expected and instructed to consistently review
     offenders' behavior in prison to determine if and when they should be
     released to the community. n8


The work of these prison and parole officials -- and the goal of the
rehabilitative model -- was to predict when the offender's return to the
community would be safe for all.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n8 Douglas A. Berman, Re-Balancing Fitness, Fairness, and Finality for
Sentences, 4 Wake Forest J. L. & Pol'y 151, 159 (2014).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Through the 1960s, the determination of when an offender would be released
from prison to the community looked a lot like a team of baseball scouts
predicting the future performance of a prospect. It was human analysis: the
gathering of bits of data and running them through individual human experience
and wisdom to make the assessment -- for the release decision by a parole board
just as for picking a first baseman by a scout team. Psychological theory and
research examined this kind of human analysis and decision making and revealed
clear findings that are now, with new and better data analytics, becoming even
clearer. First, this kind of complex human decision making is often based on
errors, biases and heuristics. Second, decision makers have little insight into
their own decision-making processes. And third, statistical models are more
accurate and more consistent, and thus fairer, than non-statistical human
decision making. n9

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n9 See DANIEL KAHNEMAN, THINKING, FAST AND SLOW (2011); R. Barry Ruback and
Jonathan J. Wroblewski, The Federal Sentencing Guidelines: Psychological and
Policy Reasons for Simplification, 7 Psych. Pub. Pol. And L. 739 (2001).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   This understanding of human decision making and its limitations compared to
actuarial and statistical modeling first led the U.S. Parole Commission to issue
guidelines for its release decisions and thus begin transforming the parole
function to take advantage of statistical modeling. That Commission created the
Salient Factor Score, based on such modeling, to help determine what the
Commission called "the parole prognosis," the likelihood of a parole violation
of one kind or another by an offender being considered for release. The Parole
Commission understood the superiority of the actuarial model in predicting
future behavior and the evenhandedness that would come with using such a model
as compared to human decision making. Subsequent research has shown the Salient
Factor Score - and later the Sentencing Commission's own Criminal History Score
- to be reliable predictors of post-imprisonment misconduct. n10

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n10 E.g., Peter B. Hoffman, Twenty Years of Operational Use of a Risk
Prediction Instrument: The United States' Parole Commission's Salient Factor
Score, 22 J. CRIM. JUST. 477 (1994); see also U.S. SENTENCING COMM'N, A
COMPARISON OF THE FEDERAL SENTENCING GUIDELINES CRIMINAL HISTORY CATEGORY AND
THE U.S. PAROLE COMMISSION SALIENT FACTOR SCORE available at
http://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/research-and-publications/research-p
ublications/2005/20050104_Recidivism_Salient_Factor_Computation.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   * * *

   The sentencing reform movement of the 1970s and 80s replaced the
rehabilitative model of sentencing that had been in place from the earliest days
of the Republic with a new sentencing framework based on truth-in-sentencing and
the idea that a criminal sentence should largely be based on the crime
committed. The foundation of the new system was the belief that reducing
reoffending was not a task worth pursuing - that nothing worked to change
offending behavior - and that excessive discretion in charging, sentencing and
parole decisions had led to unwarranted disparities and discriminatory impacts
on the poor and people of color. It was thought that certainty in sentencing -
certainty in the imposition of a particular sentence for a particular crime, and
certainty in the time to be served for a sentence imposed - would simultaneously
improve public safety by deterring new criminality, and also increase fairness
in sentencing by reducing unwarranted sentencing disparities. This new
determinate system of sentencing did not depend largely on predicting future
behavior, for sentences were based primarily on the offender's past criminal
conduct.

   The sentencing reform movement not only brought with it a new framework for
sentencing but also led, as we and many others have documented, to an
extraordinary increase in the use of incarceration. The Attorney General has
written and spoken regularly about the increase in the Nation's prison
population over the last three decades and why, in particular, it is imperative
that we control federal prison spending. The Commission's recent vote to reset
guideline offense levels for drug trafficking offenses is an important step to
meeting that imperative. We continue to work with Congress and the Commission to
find ways to adequately control the federal prison population while
simultaneously ensuring public safety.

   We have also previously noted how the increase in the prison population led
to an explosion in the number of people returning to the community each year
from stints in prison. n11 Then-Attorney General Janet Reno and then-National
Institute of Justice Director Jeremy Travis recognized this phenomenon in the
late 1990s, and much has been done to focus on effectively preparing offenders
to return to the community. Various efforts to reduce reoffending have yielded
promising results, and legislators, prosecutors, courts, and probation offices
around the country are focusing more and more on effective prisoner reentry.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n11 Annual Report from Jonathan Wroblewski, Director, Office of Policy and
Legislation, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, to Patti B. Saris, Chair,
U.S. Sentencing Comm'n (July 11, 2013) (on file with Dept. of Justice, available
at
http://www.justice.gov/criminal/foia/docs/2013annual-letter-final-071113.pdf).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   This new focus on reentry has brought with it a renewed need to identify
those offenders most at risk for reoffending upon release to the community and
to identify the individual needs of those offenders that if effectively
addressed could reduce the risk of reoffending. In the federal system, this has
taken form, for example, in the Judiciary's implementation of "evidence-based
practices" and the deployment of the Post-Conviction Risk Assessment Instrument
(PCRA). The PCRA uses information from an offender's past to identify both the
risk of reoffending and the needs to be addressed to lessen that risk. n12 Risk
and needs assessment instruments like the PCRA are a step in bringing data and
the scientific method to corrections. We think there is much to be celebrated
about this step.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n12 OFFICE OF PROB. AND PRETRIAL SERV.S, ADMIN. OFFICE OF THE U.S. COURTS, AN
OVERVIEW OF THE FEDERAL POST CONVICTION RISK ASSESSMENT (2011) available at
http://www.uscourts.gov/uscourts/FederalCourts/PPS/PCRA_Sep_2011.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   Moreover, research and experience are showing increasingly that the notion
from the 1970s that nothing works to reduce reoffending is simply incorrect.
Effective prisoner reentry is eminently possible. However, for many offenders,
especially those who enter the criminal justice system with social deficits,
limited skills and little family support, reentry is very difficult work.
Despite the progress seen in prisoner reentry programs in recent years,
recidivism research continues to show unacceptably high rates of reoffending
among released offenders. n13 Clearly, there is far more to be done, and we
believe the Commission has an important role in supporting research and
development work around reentry programs.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n13 PEW CTR. ON THE STATES, STATE OF RECIDIVISM: THE REVOLVING DOOR OF
AMERICA'S PRISONS (Apr. 2011) available at
http://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/reports/2011/04/12/state-of-re
cidivism-the-revolving-door-of-americas-prisons.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   In particular, we believe the Commission should support research and
development around the use of data analytics in reentry programs. We believe
such use has the potential to dramatically improve performance of reentry
programs and to transform the work of probation and community supervision. It
holds the long term potential to revolutionize community corrections to make it
far more effective than it is today and also a far more palatable alternative to
incarceration in certain cases.

   The deployment of analytics and other information technology in furtherance
of reentry can improve risk and needs assessments, but also has the potential to
do far more. For example, we believe that properly deployed, analytics and
information technology more generally can provide early warnings when an
offender is straying from her reentry plan. They can enable faster responses
from probation officers to get an offender back on track. They can provide more
effective delivery of needed services, the real-time awareness to let probation
officers know what's happening on the ground moment by moment, and real-time
feedback comparing what's happening relative to what was intended. Effective
service delivery combined with swift, certain and fair responses to misconduct -
the keys to successful corrections - can be greatly facilitated by these
technologies and analytics.

   We think the role, effectiveness and efficiency of community corrections and
individual probation officers could be dramatically reengineered with the use of
varied technologies and analytical tools and that recidivism rates can be
brought down on the same scale that violent crime has been reduced over the last
two decades. Linking diverse datasets, deploying analytics, and applying
advances in knowledge of human behavior, we believe, will all be part of that
reengineering. As former New Jersey Attorney General Anne Milgram stated, "The
returns for better applying technology in criminal justice extend far beyond
reducing crime or costs, to something that government officials are sworn to
uphold: justice." n14 The research and development around this potential
transformation is something the Sentencing Commission is in a unique position to
accomplish, and we think it is something the Commission should have on its
agenda.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n14 Milgram, supra note 7.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   * * *

   While we are excited about the promise of using analytics in risk and needs
assessments and otherwise in furtherance of effective reentry, we are troubled
by another use of these tools in sentencing and corrections: the increasing role
of risk assessment tools in the sentencing phase of criminal cases, specifically
in determining how long an individual will be imprisoned for a criminal
conviction. As we noted, risk assessments - through the Salient Factor Score -
had a prominent place in the federal parole system in place prior to the
Sentencing Reform Act and were a major determinant of the amount of time a
federal offender served in federal prison for an offense. The Sentencing Reform
Act was enacted to reduce the role of such assessments and to base imprisonment
terms largely, but not entirely, on the crime committed and proven in court.

   In recent years, states are increasingly adding risk assessments to the
criminal sentencing process. Pennsylvania n15 and Tennessee, n16 for example,
have enacted legislation mandating the use of risk assessments to inform
sentencing decisions. Vermont n17 and Kentucky n18 use sex offense recidivism
risk instruments in sentencing defendants convicted of sex crimes. For many
years now, Virginia has mandated the use of an actuarial risk tool to identify
low-risk offenders for diversion from prison for certain criminal convictions
and high-risk sex offenders for an increased sentencing range. n19 The Model
Penal Code is in the process of being revised to include actuarial risk tools in
the sentencing process. The revisions would direct sentencing commissions to -



     Develop actuarial instruments or processes, supported by current and
     ongoing recidivism research, that will estimate the relative risk that
     individual offenders pose to public safety through their future
     criminal conduct. When these instruments or processes prove
     sufficiently reliable, the commission may incorporate them into the
     sentencing guidelines. n20



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n15 42 Pa. Consol. Stat. Aim. § 2154.5 (2009).

   n16 Tenn. Code Ann. § 41-l-412(b) (2013).

   n17 28 V.S.A. § 204a(b)(l) (2013).

   n18 KRS 17.554(2) (2013).

   n19 Jordan M. Hyatt et a)., Reform in Motion: The Promise and Perils of
Incorporating Risk Assessments and Cost-Benefit Analysis into Pennsylvania
Sentencing, 49 DuQ. L. Rev. 707, 723 (2011).

   n20 Model Penal Code: Sentencing § 6B.09(2) (Tentative Draft No. 3, 2014).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   In the federal system, legislation pending in both the House and Senate would
make risk assessment once again a major determinant of imprisonment terms served
by federal offenders. n21 The legislation would regulate the portion of an
imposed term of imprisonment ordered by a court that would actually be served by
a federal offender. While the goals of improving reentry programming and
efficacy are laudable and while there is much we support in the legislation, we
are concerned by these key provisions that would base imprisonment periods to be
served on the results of a yet-to-be-created risk assessment instrument that
will evolve over time as data analytics develop and make their way into such
instruments. We think these provisions -- and the larger emerging trends around
risk assessments and sentencing -- raise many concerns the Commission ought to
study and address.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n21 Recidivism Reduction and Public Safety Act, S.1675, 113th Cong. (2014);
Public Safety Enhancement Act, H.R.2656, 113th Cong. (2013).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   First, most current risk assessments -- and in particular the PCRA, which is
specifically mentioned in the pending federal legislation -- determine risk
levels based on static, historical offender characteristics such as education
level, employment history, family circumstances and demographic information. We
think basing criminal sentences, and particularly imprisonment terms, primarily
on such data - rather than the crime committed and surrounding circumstances --
is a dangerous concept that will become much more concerning over time as other
far reaching sociological and personal information unrelated to the crimes at
issue are incorporated into risk tools. Th is phenomenon ultimately raises
constitutional questions because of the use of group-based characteristics and
suspect classifications in the analytics. Criminal accountability should be
primarily about prior bad acts proven by the government before a court of law
and not some future bad behavior predicted to occur by a risk assessment
instrument.

   Second, experience and analysis of current risk assessment tools demonstrate
that utilizing such tools for determining prison sentences to be served will
have a disparate and adverse impact on offenders from poor communities already
struggling with many social ills. The touchstone of our justice system is equal
justice, and we think sentences based excessively on risk assessment instruments
will likely undermine this principle.

   Third, use of risk assessments to determine sentences erodes certainty in
sentencing, thus diminishing the deterrent value of a strong, consistent
sentencing system that is seen by the community as fair and tough. Our brothers
and sisters in the defense and research communities have repeatedly cited
research to the Commission about the value and efficacy of certainty of
apprehension and certainty of punishment in deterring crime. Swift, certain and
fair sanctions are what work to deter crime, both individually and across
society. We know that certainty in sentencing -- certainty in the imposition of
a particular sentence for a particular crime, and certainty in the time to be
served for a sentence imposed - simultaneously improves public safety and
reduces unwarranted sentencing disparities. We are concerned that excessive
reliance on risk tools will greatly undermine what has been achieved around
certainty of sentencing in the federal system.

   Determining imprisonment terms should be primarily about accountability for
past criminal behavior. While any effective sentencing and corrections policy
will take account of future behavior to some extent -- incapacitating those more
likely to recidivate and utilizing effective reentry efforts to reduce the
likelihood of recidivism -- we believe the length of imprisonment terms should
mostly be about accounting for past criminal conduct. As analytics evolve, we
are concerned about the implications of sentencing policy moving away from this
precept.

   We think the Sentencing Commission's agenda should include the study of risk
assessment tools and their various uses in the sentencing and
corrections/reentry processes. Following such study, the Commission should issue
a statement of policy about the proper role of these instruments in the federal
criminal justice system in particular. As analytical tools transform risk
assessment instruments, there is great potential for their use, but also great
dangers. With the Commission's help, the good can be harnessed, the dangers
avoided, and like Billy Beane, we can achieve success - here, increased public
safety and greater justice -- at far lower costs to all.

   Structural Sentencing Reform

   Several years ago, we noted that federal sentencing practice was fragmenting
into at least two distinct sets of sentencing outcomes. On the one hand,
sentencing outcomes in many courts remain closely tied to the sentencing
guidelines. These courts have continued to impose sentences within the
applicable guideline range for most offenders and most offenses. n22

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n22 See U.S. SENTENCING COMM'N, SOURCEBOOK OF FEDERAL SENTENCING STATISTICS,
Table 26 (2013) available at
http://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/research-and-publications/annual-rep
orts-and-sourcebooks/2013/Table26.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   On the other hand, many courts that while still influenced by the sentencing
guidelines deviate regularly and significantly from them. n23 These courts
regularly impose sentences outside the applicable guideline range irrespective
of the offense type or the nature of the offender. n24 In addition, there are
certain offense types for which the guidelines have lost the respect of a large
number of judges across districts. The most obvious of these offense types is
child pornography crimes.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n23 See id.

   n24 See id. at Table 27 available at
http://www.ussc.gov/sites/defauIt/files/pdf/research-and-publications/annual-rep
orts-and-sourcebooks/2013/Table27.pdf.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   We remain concerned by this evolution of federal sentencing into two separate
practices. Most importantly, the research and data make increasingly clear that
this divide leads to unwarranted sentencing disparities. More and more, studies
are showing that a defendant's sentence will be significantly influenced by the
judicial assignment of the case and the particular court that conducts the
sentencing. n25 This is quite troubling. In our consideration of federal
sentencing policy, we begin from the principle that offenders who commit similar
offenses and have comparable criminal histories should be sentenced similarly.
This was the foundational principle of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. It
seems that our federal sentencing system may be meeting this principle less and
less.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n25 Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, Surprising Judge-to-Judge
Variations Documented in Federal Sentencing, TRACREPORTS (March 5, 2012),
http://trac.svr.edu/ti-acreports/iudgo/274/.


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   We continue to believe the Commission should study these diverging practices
and, over the long run, consider structural reform of the federal sentencing
guidelines to address them. In addition to increasing disparities, the current
guidelines structure spurs much needless litigation. This is not surprising,
given that the guidelines structure was developed for a different legal
framework, when the guideline calculation was intended to be the last word for
most cases.

   To this end, much can be learned from state sentencing guideline systems.
There has been significant research of state guideline systems. n26 As we have
stated before, these systems, by and large, differ structurally from the federal
sentencing guidelines in that they have simpler sentencing grids, fewer grid
cells, and less complex guideline formulas -- i.e. fewer aggravating and
mitigating factors embodied in rules for litigators to fight over. Conventional
thinking would suggest that a greater numbers of cells with more factors
embodied in rules would create a greater number of sets of similarly situated
offenders and result in a greater degree of sentencing consistency and
meaningful differentiation among offenders. n27 However, the available research
and experience suggest that greater detail in the sentencing grid and sentencing
formulas does not better sort offenders into more meaningful categories for
purposes of sentencing decisions. n28 In particular, our experience with the
very detailed federal guidelines, when applied through the legal framework
created by Booker, has seen quite disparate guideline application and sentencing
outcomes. These findings should guide the Commission in its work evaluating
unwarranted disparities as much as data on guideline compliance by federal
judges. Moreover, we think these findings -- along with many other factors --
should guide the Commission to consider structural guidelines reform to produce
a simpler guideline system.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Footnotes - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


   n26 E.g., Richard S. Frase, State Sentencing Guidelines: Diversity,
Consensus, and Unresolved Policy Issues, 105 COLUM. L. REV. 1190-1232 (2005).

   n27 Wroblewski, supra note 11.

   n28 See, e.g., Brian J. OSTROM, ET AL., NAT'L CTR. FOR STATE COURTS,
ASSESSING CONSISTENCY AND FAIRNESS IN SENTENCING: A COMPARATIVE STUDY IN THREE
STATES (2008).


- - - - - - - - - - - - End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

   We continue to believe that a strong and consistent federal sentencing system
is important to improving public safety across the country -- as it has over the
past decades -- and to furthering greater justice for all in a cost effective
manner. And we further believe that much can be learned from the states,
including how a simpler form of sentencing guidelines can improve consistency,
reduce unwarranted sentencing disparities, and better allocate sentencing
decisions among the stakeholders in the criminal justice system.

   A strong and effective federal sentencing system is critical to keeping
national crime rates low, moving them still lower, improving justice, and
addressing specific and acute crime problems.

   ...

   Conclusion

   The policy agenda we suggest here is substantial. The range of issues
represents the range of the Commission's statutory responsibilities, including
overseeing the systemic health of the federal sentencing system and its
structural elements, addressing individual guidelines in need of reform,
resolving circuit conflicts, and more. We look forward to discussing all these
issues with you and the other Commissioners with the goal of refining the
sentencing guidelines and laying out a path for developing effective, efficient,
fair, and stable sentencing policy long into the future.

   Under the leadership of the Attorney General, violent crime rates continue to
fall and are now at generational lows. Our goal is to continue to improve public
safety while ensuring justice for all by means of the efficient use of
enforcement, judicial and correctional resources. We appreciate the opportunity
to provide the Commission with our views, comments, and suggestions.

   Sincerely,

   Jonathan J. Wroblewski

   Director, Office of Policy and Legislation


                               15 of 22 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 2014 Clinical Law Review, Inc.
                              Clinical Law Review

                                   Fall, 2014

                              Clinical Law Review

                            21 Clinical L. Rev. 201

LENGTH: 28968 words

ARTICLE: IMPOSSIBLE CHOICES: BALANCING SAFETY AND SECURITY IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
REPRESENTATION

NAME: Camille Carey and Robert A. Solomon*

BIO: * Camille Carey is an Associate Professor of Law at the University of New
Mexico School of Law. Robert Solomon is a Clinical Professor of Law at the
University of California Irvine School of Law. The authors wish to thank
Catherine Fisk, Jane Stoever, the faculty at the University of New Mexico School
of Law, and participants at the Tenth International Clinical Legal Education
Conference. We were privileged to work with Mary Adkins and Elizabeth Tulis,
whose combination of talent, dedication, and good will were extraordinary.
Professor Carey thanks Ernesto Longa, Erin Joyce, KC Manierre, and Doreen
Jameson for outstanding research assistance. Professor Solomon thanks Lisa Fae
Petak for the same.

TEXT:
 [*201]



    Domestic violence victims often face the impossible choice between physical
safety and financial security. State intervention can offer some protection to
victims, but enlisting the criminal justice system through reporting domestic
violence or restraining order violations can have drastic financial
consequences. Involving the state is likely to lead to sanctions for the abuser
that would ultimately deprive the victim of child support, alimony, and other
financial support, which may be the totality of the victim's financial
resources. To avoid this result, many victims refuse to enforce court orders
intended to maximize their safety. This article examines the context in which
victims must "choose" between physical safety and financial security and the
lawyer's difficult position when a client prioritizes financial stability. Using
a compelling case study that exemplifies this impossible choice, the article
examines the role of economic dependence in victim decision-making; reasons why
victims avoid protections offered by the criminal justice system; issues of
capacity, competence, and the Model Rules of Professional Conduct in
representing victims; the different models of client-centered lawyering and
cause lawyering; the question of whether private rights become public in
domestic violence cases; and recent social science work on the ability to
predict future domestic violence based on current behavior. The authors view
this through the lens of law school clinical programs, and the experiences of
students who work on the cases and what limitations, if any, there are to
representation when the client trades safety for economic stability.




   Introduction

 We co-taught a Domestic Violence Clinic at Yale Law School. Our clinic followed
a holistic model in which the clinic students represented victims of domestic
violence in a full range of legal problems,  [*202]  including family law,
immigration, tort actions against abusers, mortgage foreclosure, consumer,
landlord-tenant, public benefits, and tax matters. We found that many of our
clients were forced to balance the issue of physical abuse with the threat of
severe financial stress. In this article, we offer a case study in which our
client, largely out of concern for her children's economic security, refused to
enforce civil restraining and criminal protective orders to ensure that her
husband would be able to work and support the family. This situation is not
unique. Many of our clients were loath to enforce existing restraining orders or
protective orders, fearing that enforcement would result in incarceration of the
abuser, which would interrupt financial support. These pressures were
particularly severe for clients with minor children.

   This article focuses on the role of economic security in a domestic violence
victim's decision-making, and the role of the attorney in trying to assist in
and execute the domestic violence victim client's decisions. We concentrate on
the economic pressures that make it difficult to leave, but recognize that
financial matters represent one piece of a complicated picture. We are concerned
with isolating any single factor in what is often a multi-faceted decision. As a
result, we have purposely taken a wide-ranging approach in examining both the
factors that lead to a decision to stay or not enforce court orders, as well as
the role of the lawyer in helping to effectuate these decisions. We analyze this
situation through the lens of one clinic case - offering the perspectives of the
clinic students who worked on the case and discussing what limitations, if any,
there are to representation in a case like this when a client trades safety for
economic stability. This is a broad analysis, and we appreciate that we raise
more questions than we answer, but we are looking for ways to better inform
representation of clients in dangerous situations, and we have not found the
answers to be easily forthcoming.

   In Part I, we discuss our client Barbara's situation as a case study that
provides a context in which to examine these complex issues. We provide
background about Barbara's case, along with the perspectives of the two clinic
students who, under our supervision, represented Barbara and identified many of
the issues relevant to this article in a contemporaneous "g-chat" (instant
messaging through Google) about her case. In Part II, we provide an overview of
the problem presented by Barbara's situation and many other similar situations -
namely what limits, if any, there might be in a lawyer's representation of a
domestic violence victim when that representation may increase the victim's risk
of harm or circumvent legal processes that are meant to protect the victim. We
look at issues of capacity and competence and  [*203]  when a lawyer can limit
or withdraw from representation under the Model Rules of Professional Conduct.
Part III examines how financial pressures and economic dependency cause many
domestic violence victims to eschew court involvement or "opt out" of the
criminal justice system. In Part IV we discuss other reasons why victims opt out
of court protections - including problems with the criminal justice system, fear
of retaliation, concerns about immigration consequences for the victim or the
abuser, and love for and attachment to the abuser. Part V views domestic
violence representation through different models of representation, namely
client-centered lawyering and cause lawyering. Part VI explores whether domestic
violence victims' rights are public or private rights. Part VII examines the
predictability of domestic violence under lethality and risk assessment
instruments and questions whether these instruments should guide lawyers in
representing victims of domestic violence.

   I. The Case Study

   A. The Client: Barbara

 Each week, we went with our clinic students to a local domestic violence
advocacy center located in a beautiful, old Victorian house in a nearby
neighborhood in New Haven, Connecticut. We interviewed prospective clients at a
dining room table under a chandelier in what had once been an upscale dining
room. It was there that we met Barbara. Barbara had been married to her abuser
for 19 years and had two minor children, ages 10 and 15. During the marriage,
Barbara had never been away from home overnight without her husband Tom,
although he had taken several trips with girlfriends. Her husband was extremely
controlling. She was not permitted to work or learn a trade. He owned a
business, had substantial earnings, built a house, paid all the bills, and doled
out household money in modest amounts. The business was labor-intensive and was
entirely dependent on his ability to bid on public contracts and perform
strenuous physical labor. If he did not work, the income stream would end.

   Barbara's husband beat her frequently. On two occasions, she took pictures of
her black eyes and bruises. The only time she went to a doctor, she gave a false
account of the cause of her injuries. She was afraid to take any action that
could lead to her husband's arrest. Her main concerns were that she be able to
pay the mortgage and household bills and continue to maintain her children's
home and lifestyle.

   Two years before we met her, Barbara prepared a pro se divorce complaint.
Connecticut has an unusual procedure, in which a complaint is served before
being filed with the court. When Barbara  [*204]  served her husband in their
home, by handing him a copy, she was afraid of physical violence. Instead, he
looked at the papers, tore them in half, told her she was not getting a divorce,
and left the house. She felt trapped, but assumed that her husband was correct.
She believed there was no way she could pay for an attorney and there was no way
she could get the divorce on her own. It was only after she contacted a domestic
violence hotline that she learned that she might be able to receive free legal
services.

   We represented Barbara for three years, obtaining a divorce, custody,
alimony, child support, and a property settlement. During that period, the only
time she was inconsolable was when her husband was arrested when a neighbor
reported a domestic dispute at Barbara's home. Barbara told us that the one
thing she could not allow was for her husband to go to jail. She could put up
with anything so long as she could provide for her children, and the only way
she could do that was for her husband to keep working. Although the court had
entered restraining orders and, due to a third party complaint, a criminal
protective order, Barbara refused to enforce those orders. n1

   In a remarkably successful multi-day divorce trial, the court awarded Barbara
over 50% of her husband's income for child support and alimony, as well as 100%
of the equity in the marital home, valued at $ 350,000. Connecticut is an
"equitable distribution" state, and the evidence was quite compelling and was a
major factor in the property distribution. As just one example, Barbara
testified that one morning, on awakening after a beating the night before, she
was exhilarated when she looked in the mirror, because she had only one black
eye, when she expected two.

   Family lawyers reading about a "remarkably successful" result in a domestic
violence case will probably ask "then what happened?" Even before the end of the
trial, we knew that compliance with the terms of the judgment was unlikely. At a
recess during the last day of the trial, when things were not going well for the
defendant, we saw him huddled with his brother, who then made a series of
telephone calls. They conducted their business openly, with an occasional smirk
for our benefit. It was clear that they were planning something, and equally
clear that they wanted us to be worried about it. When our client got home, most
of her furniture was missing. In one sense, we were relieved that the plan was
limited to possessions, but we filed a motion for contempt the next morning. The
problem was resolved  [*205]  when the older son, then 17, drove to his father's
house, convinced his father to help him load the furniture on a truck, and
brought it home.

   At trial, the judge issued a new restraining order, on her own motion, noting
that this was the first time in her twelve years on the bench she had issued a
restraining order without an application. An earlier restraining order had
expired, and Barbara did not want a new order, having experienced panic when her
husband was arrested for violating the order.

   Tom continued his attempts to control Barbara. He violated the restraining
order on a regular basis. He came to the house frequently. Barbara refused to
take any action to enforce the order. He failed to pay alimony and child
support, and we were in court on contempt motions on many occasions, always
seeking compliance with the financial orders, but never raising the restraining
order violations. Usually he showed up at court with a check. Once he brought
forty $ 100 bills. Eventually, the court scheduled monthly hearings, requiring
that he keep current on payments.

   At a post-judgment contempt hearing for failure to pay child support and
alimony, the defendant described a conversation he had with Barbara at the
marital home, noting that he had frequent conversations with her at the house.
The judge was livid about his failure to comply with the restraining order, and
said she should throw him in jail until he learned the meaning of a court order.
The judge suggested that we might need a public defender for the unrepresented
defendant, a sure sign that she was considering jail time. We expected this
issue to arise, and the students were prepared. They found themselves arguing,
strenuously and effectively, that the court should issue additional monetary
sanctions, but not incarceration.

   We had warned Barbara that the restraining order violations were likely to be
disclosed. Barbara remained adamant that she wanted to enforce the financial
orders, but not the restraining order. In fact, the mortgage was in arrears and
without access to support and alimony payments, a mortgage foreclosure was
imminent.

   The judge expressed fear for Barbara's safety, a fear that we had lived with
for over two years, with constant self-doubts about our failure to enforce the
restraining and protective orders. We had discussed this as a class and as a
litigation team. We had the benefit of consultation with a psychologist
specializing in domestic violence issues, social workers who consulted with
Barbara, victim advocates, and a prosecutor assigned to domestic violence
prosecutions. In the end, the students and the authors agreed that the choice
was the client's, not ours. When the judge raised her concerns, the students
explained and advocated for the client's position. The judge looked surprised,
and took a  [*206]  recess. When she returned to the bench, the judge allowed
the defendant to remain free and to continue working.

   The defendant continued to violate the restraining and protective orders and
Barbara continued in her insistence that she wanted us to enforce the financial
orders but to do everything we could to keep her now ex-husband out of jail.
Ultimately, he came to the house one day when Barbara's friend was visiting.
When the friend told him to leave, Tom told the friend to mind his own business
and pushed him, causing him to crash into a bookcase and hurt his shoulder.
Someone called the police, they came, and the defendant was arrested. After a
lengthy plea bargain, he pled to five violations of restraining orders and
protective orders, and was sentenced to four years imprisonment.

   B. The Students' Perspective: Mary and Elizabeth

 When we started writing this article, we contacted Mary Adkins and Elizabeth
Tulis, the Yale Law School students who represented Barbara throughout the above
case study. Yale Law School permits first-year law students to enroll in a
clinic, and Mary met Barbara at an outreach site a few weeks into the spring
semester of her first year of law school. Elizabeth worked in the Yale clinic
during the summer between her first and second years of law school and, as part
of her responsibilities, represented Barbara throughout the summer. Both Mary
and Elizabeth continued to represent Barbara throughout their second and third
years of law school. (We appreciate the luxury of having the same students work
with a client for over two years, but we do not think that changes the issues).

   After an initial discussion about this article, Elizabeth offered an
extraordinary g-chat that she had with Mary during the representation. The
content has been edited slightly for length, but the words are entirely our
students'. While this paper is about a lawyering problem, and not about clinical
pedagogy, our case study did arise in the context of a domestic violence clinic,
and, as the conversation shows, the students were conscious of and concerned
with our client's refusal to enforce orders, and it brings to life in real time
the difficult issues with which we were all struggling. The clinical setting
adds a dimension to the lawyering skills involved, and we think it is helpful to
consider the real-time concerns of the students:

   Mary: Tom [husband] comes over a lot, according to Joe [Barbara's friend].
Joe was like "He has to go to jail to get his attention."

   Elizabeth: Joe saw him come over? Was Barbara there when Tom came over?

   Mary: Yes and she hid upstairs. He has a key.

    [*207]  Elizabeth: Tom came in the house? Did Barbara get the locks changed?

   Mary: Yes but it doesn't matter. I don't think he has the order yet. Whether
or not Barbara wants Tom to go to jail, something has to change in the way she's
been dealing with this, or else Tom simply won't stop. He won't stop.

   Elizabeth: I wonder if we could ask for financial sanctions. Barbara really
might need to get used to the idea of him being in jail for a while. We're just
no longer in a place where we can use this to get assets divided, etc.

   Mary: I think [the judge] is smart and caring.

   Elizabeth: But even [the judge] is going to lose patience at some point and
be like, if he keeps doing these things, and she wants him to stop, he needs to
face the consequences. I just feel like in this case, I am really walking a line
between serving what Barbara "wants" and giving her good legal advice, honest
legal advice, about what her options are and good practical advice, responsible
advice, about what I think she should do, legally.

   Mary: I think we've told her what she has to do legally. She's not doing it.

   Elizabeth: I feel like there's a certain point in this case, though, where I
can't honestly be asking for a TRO [temporary restraining order] n2 that she
won't enforce. Or, there's not anything I can do if she won't enforce it. By not
allowing us to report violations we're not serving her interests, - at least if
we think that subjective assessments of interest in cases like Barbara's are not
all there is. If Barbara thinks that everything would be fine if she took Tom
back, that that was what she wanted, would we be serving her interest by
facilitating that? Or by, say, transferring property to Tom? I don't know, I
guess I've just been feeling really frustrated, to some extent with Barbara
herself.

   Mary: I mean I think this is the fundamental question in DV work, right?

   Mary: But what she's asking from us in this particular kind of instance is
not action but inaction, not pushing the violation in front of the court, which
is a passive kind of facilitating I realize, but it's more palatable to me.

   Elizabeth: It's making Tom think she won't enforce. It just feels very
hypocritical, when our whole case was premised on "he's so abusive and he needs
to be away from her."

    [*208]  Mary: I know. I asked her today if she felt scared of him and she
said no, not right now. I said, well he has the key to the house, you know he's
going to change his tune at any point and he could hurt you.

   Elizabeth: And if at some future point, she does want to enforce, and report
him, say coming to the house, he'll go to court and say "she's just mad at me
for something else - I've been coming to the house all the time and she hasn't
complained." [The judge] TOLD Barbara not to have contact with him at the
hearing.

   Mary: I'm not sure she would have told me today, except Joe was there and he
said it.

   Elizabeth: I just feel weird going to [the judge] and asking her to enforce
child support, say, but refusing to bring up the other contempt. It suggests
that Barbara, like Tom, is being selective in her respect for the orders. I know
that's not exactly what it is...but it doesn't feel right to me, when we put on
such a dramatic DV case and emphasized that this was about getting him out of
her life, to tolerate him staying in it in such blatant ways. Ethically (not
legally ethically, just ethically) it is getting to me.

   Mary: She's legitimately scared about his incarceration. I mean, scared for
legit reasons.

   Elizabeth: But she's not being particularly respectful towards the legal
orders.

   Mary: Well, right, but they are orders that she asked for.

   Elizabeth: Or to the legal framework her case assumed when we decided to
present DV evidence at trial and asked [the judge] to rule on it. It would be
different if we had not gotten all those financial orders etc. on the basis of
the DV.

   Mary: Because those aren't the priorities in her life. She's thinking about
her priorities which I think are reasonable to a certain extent.

   Elizabeth: But Tom's violation of the RO (restraining order) is a criminal
act - maybe that's part of the reason this is bothering me. Because literally,
legally, by imposing the RO, Barbara was involving the state, and making it the
state's interest too.

   Mary: Well she certainly picks and chooses.

   Elizabeth: I guess, maybe, I've just sort of internalized the basic premise
of the civil/criminal distinction, which is that once you enter the criminal law
system, it's not just the interest of the victim, but of society that is at
issue. Going into the system, you marshal the resources of the state to protect
you, but you also cede some control of the case to the State.

   Mary: I think you really hit the nail on the head when you told her that she
can't have someone to keep mowing the lawn but not beating her up. Her lifestyle
WILL change. I don't think she's accepted that.

    [*209]  Elizabeth: I know. Like she says she's trying to, but I feel like
she's saying that to please us.

   II. The Problem: Capacity, Competence, and Limiting or Withdrawing from
Representation

   A. The Problem

 Our case study raises several issues. What does client-centered lawyering mean
in such a context? It is easy to say that we take direction from the client, but
does it matter that the client is placing herself in danger of serious harm or
death, not to mention using our services to facilitate an ongoing violation of
court orders? The question of the limits of a lawyer's advocacy on behalf of a
domestic violence victim has gone largely unexamined.

   Lawyers who work with domestic violence victims regularly represent clients
who continue to be subjected to physical and sexual violence. These clients
might still be in a relationship with the abuser or may have intended or
undesired contact with the abuser. The abuser continues to perpetrate abuse and
the victim, based on the abuser's prior conduct, knows that she is likely to
suffer further abuse. The lawyer often knows of the ongoing abusive conduct,
although the client does not always disclose this information. n3 The ongoing
abuse can range greatly in its severity, from minor pushing to lethal violence.
We ask if there is a point at which a lawyer should or can reconsider his or her
role in representing the client, especially when the lawyer's advocacy increases
the likelihood of the client's exposure to violence.

   We are particularly concerned with the lawyer's limits, if any, when the
client is making decisions that put her at risk of harm. For the purposes of
this article, we are thinking about the lawyer's boundaries arising in two
related categories: when advocacy facilitates contact with the abuser that might
subject the victim to risk of further violence and when the client requests that
the lawyer assist in circumventing legal processes meant to provide safety to
the victim.

   First, there might be a level or risk of violence to which the client is
exposing herself that would cause a lawyer to reconsider representation of the
client. Most domestic violence attorneys are accustomed to representing clients
who experience ongoing low-or mid-level violence. A typical domestic violence
caseload often also includes some ongoing high-level violence. Is there a level
of risked harm at which the lawyer can question whether the client's directions
accurately represent her interests? Does the lawyer pause when the abuser uses
or  [*210]  poses the risk of extreme violence or potentially lethal violence
and the lawyer's services are helping to facilitate contact between the parties?
Or does the lawyer continue advocacy regardless of the risk to the client? We
are concerned when the client is voluntarily exposing herself to a high risk of
harm, but it is not clear how we should best inform our decision about
representation when the risk arises. In our case study, we knew that Barbara had
ongoing contact with Tom, although Barbara was rarely forthcoming about the type
and frequency of the contact. Given the history of violence in the relationship,
we were constantly concerned about Barbara's safety, but we continued to proceed
on Barbara's directions.

   Second, the lawyer might reconsider representation when the client requests
that her attorney attempt to circumvent or even obstruct legal processes that
are meant to protect the client. The client might ask that the attorney conceal
the abuser's conduct from the court to purposely avoid remedies meant to protect
the client. She may ask that the attorney not disclose the abuser's violation of
court orders. She may request that the attorney advocate against civil court
protections, like issuance of a restraining order, or criminal court
protections, like prosecution, that are meant to provide safety to the victim.
The issue presented by our case study arises when the client asks the lawyer to
advocate that the perpetrator not be prosecuted for an incident of domestic
violence or violating a restraining or a protective order, even when the failure
to prosecute will almost certainly allow for additional violence.

   A lawyer might refuse to provide certain types of advocacy when that advocacy
is likely to bring the client harm. We examine the circumstances that create
sufficient concern for the attorney such that she might establish a boundary in
the representation. The Model Rules of Professional Conduct require that "[a]
lawyer shall abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of
representation, but when can a lawyer deviate from a client's direction." n4

   B. Capacity and Competence

 One exception to the requirement that the lawyer abide by the client's
decisions is provided under Rule 1.14 when the client has "diminished capacity."
n5 Some may question a victim's "capacity" or "competence" to make decisions
involving exposure to harm. This line of questioning implicates our first
inquiry above, namely whether there is a level or risk of violence to which the
client is exposing herself  [*211]  that would cause a lawyer to reconsider
representation of the client. There has been limited discussion of the capacity
and competence of domestic violence victims to make autonomous, rational
decisions and realize those decisions. n6 Society treats a victim's decision as
to whether to leave an abusive relationship as indicative of her capacity or
competence. n7 Some might perceive that a victim "choosing" to stay with an
abuser or have contact with an abuser after separation indicates clouded
judgment.

   While "competence" and "capacity" are similar and often used interchangeably,
n8 they are distinct concepts. Competence, referring to legal competence, means
a legal standard relating to a person's mental ability to understand problems
and make decisions. n9 Competency is required in order to complete a legal task.
n10 To be competent, an individual's capacities or functional abilities must be
sufficient for the legal context in which a decision is being made. n11
Capacity, on the other hand, speaks to an individual's level of psychological
functioning. n12 Psychological or psychiatric evaluations can determine an
individual's capacity to make rational decisions, understand complex concepts,
or  [*212]  understand the nature and effect of one's acts. n13

   Some have argued that domestic violence victims lack competence to make legal
decisions consistent with their values and priorities if they are afraid of
their abusers. n14 This alleged incompetence arguably arises as duress when
victim decision-making is controlled by fear of the abuser and desire to avoid
retaliation. n15 Because of this duress, it is argued that the victim is not
able to make decisions serving her own best interests. n16

   The discussion of victims' ability to make decisions has focused more on
capacity rather than competence. Rule 1.14 n17 considers the messy notion of
"diminished capacity." The Comment to Rule 1.2, which requires that "[a] lawyer
shall abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of
representation," n18 notes that Rule 1.14 controls "in a case in which the
client appears to be suffering diminished capacity... ." n19 Rule 1.14(a) states
that capacity may be diminished "because of minority, mental impairment or for
some other reason." n20 This definition is very broad and could arguably extend
to some victims, especially given the catchall phrase "for some other reason."

   In a case of diminished capacity, the lawyer may take reasonable action to
protect the client. Rule 1.14(b) provides that

 when the lawyer reasonably believes that the client has diminished capacity, is
at risk of substantial physical, financial or other harm unless action is taken
and cannot adequately act in the client's own interest, the lawyer may take
reasonably necessary protective action, including consulting with individuals or
entities that have the ability to take action to protect the client and, in
appropriate cases, seeking the appointment of a guardian ad litem, conservator
or guardian. n21



    Professor Ruth Jones asserts that some domestic violence victims should be
appointed legal guardians due to capacity issues. n22 For Jones, some domestic
violence victims are "unable to act on their own" and "require an intervention
that permits someone else to act on their behalf to protect them from their
abusers until they can protect  [*213]  themselves." n23 She argues that
appointment of a guardian for a victim may be necessary when the abuse has
deprived the victim of the ability to exercise independent judgment. n24 This
guardianship would remain in effect until the abuser's control of the victim is
removed and a victim can make decisions for herself. n25 The guardian could
obtain public benefits and obtain and enforce a restraining order on the
victim's behalf. n26 The guardian could also restrict the victim's contact with
the abuser and petition the court to remove the abuser from the shared residence
or move the victim into separate housing. n27 The desired outcome of the
"aggressive intervention" of a guardianship is for the victim to decide to end
the abusive relationship. n28

   The Court of Appeals of Minnesota addressed the capacity of a domestic
violence victim in a conservatorship case, where the victim refused to seek a
restraining order. In In Re Conservatorship of Barbara J. Frarck, a Minnesota
appellate court upheld the lower court's decision to appoint a conservator for a
domestic violence victim due to incapacity. n29 Barbara Frarck was in an abusive
relationship and suffered from borderline personality disorder. n30 The court
wrote that "despite being physically abused by [her boyfriend], Frarck remains
involved in their relationship" and that the testimony "indicated that if a
conservator were appointed and sought a restraining order, Frarck could be
protected from his abuse." While the court appointed a conservator based on both
the domestic violence and Frarck's mental condition, the court focused more on
the domestic violence in concluding that a conservatorship was appropriate. The
court stated that, "Frarck's continued threats to move in with her boyfriend,
despite his abusive treatment, indicate that she is unable to make rational
decisions about her living arrangements." n31 The court went on to state,
"Without a conservator, there is no legal mechanism to stop the abuse, given
Frarck's refusal to obtain a protective order." n32

   This focus on exiting the relationship as the test of capacity or competency
n33 is highly problematic. A victim's decision as whether to  [*214]  remain
with an abuser or separate cannot be the test of whether a victim is acting
rationally or in her own best interests. n34 Victims are competent, rational
decision-makers, but the nature of abusive relationships limits their choices.
Their options are narrowed by a number of factors, including conditions of the
relationship, economic dependence, and possible consequences for violating the
confines of the relationship as established by the abuser. Absent capacity
issues unrelated to domestic violence, we believe it is inappropriate to:



    take reasonably necessary protective action, including consulting with
individuals or entities that have the ability to take action to protect the
client and, in appropriate cases, seeking the appointment of a guardian ad
litem, conservator or guardian including consulting with individuals or entities
that have the ability to take action to protect the client and, in appropriate
cases, seeking the appointment of a guardian ad litem, conservator or guardian



    under Rule 1.14(b). n35

   C. Limiting or Terminating Representation

 We do not support seeking the appointment of a guardian, as allowed by the
capacity rule, but we question whether there might be some circumstances in
which it would be appropriate to set a boundary on representation. The Model
Rules of Professional Conduct are not particularly helpful in determining what
circumstances permit an attorney to deviate from the general rule that the
attorney must take direction from the client. Under Rule 1.2(d), "A lawyer shall
not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer
knows is criminal or fraudulent." n36 A lawyer cannot, for example, advise a
client to disregard a ruling of the court. n37 Similarly, Rule 1.16 allows an
attorney to seek withdrawal if "the client persists in a course of action
involving the lawyer's services that the lawyer reasonably believes is criminal
or fraudulent" or if "the client has used the lawyer's services to perpetrate a
crime or fraud." n38

   These rules relate to our second inquiry into the problem presented by our
case study, namely whether the lawyer might reconsider representation when the
client requests that her attorney attempt to circumvent or even obstruct legal
processes that are meant to protect the client. What does it mean that the
lawyer's services are  [*215]  used to "perpetrate a crime or fraud?" n39 What
is "a course of conduct involving the lawyer's services that the lawyer
reasonably believes is criminal or fraudulent?" n40 Is it fraudulent to conceal
the abuser's conduct from the court to purposely avoid remedies meant to protect
the client? Is the lawyer obligated to inform the court of the abuser's
violation of restraining and protective orders? In Barbara's case, we told her
that the violations would likely arise and that she would have to testify
truthfully, but we did not take affirmative steps to advise the court of the
violations. Had we done so, Barbara's husband would likely have been
incarcerated. Barbara would have been safer, at the expense of our ignoring our
client's directions.

   For the purpose of this paper, Rule 1.16 raises a more salient question: what
is "a violation of the rules of professional conduct or other law?" n41 Rule
1.16, Declining or Terminating Representation, provides that "a lawyer shall not
represent a client or, where representation has commenced, shall withdraw from
the representation of a client if ... the representation will result in a
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or other law;" n42 and "[a]
lawyer may withdraw from representing a client if withdrawal can be accomplished
without material adverse effect on the interests of the client." n43

   Rule 1.16 also provides that a lawyer may withdraw if "the client insists
upon taking action that the lawyer considers repugnant or with which the lawyer
has a fundamental disagreement." n44 For the purposes of this article, we are
assuming that a lawyer who does not wish to continue to represent a client who
refuses to enforce a restraining order can seek to withdraw pursuant to Rule
1.16(b)(4) of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct if the lawyer considers
this decision to be "repugnant" or fundamentally disagrees with the refusal. n45
It may be that the court will not allow withdrawal. That situation is beyond the
scope of this article.

   One scholar has suggested that in some situations domestic violence lawyers
should break client confidentiality and request outside intervention from law
enforcement or others when the lawyer assesses that a victim is at risk of harm.
n46 For support, she cites Model Rule of Professional Conduct 1.6(b)(1), which
provides that "[a] lawyer may reveal information relating to the representation
of a client to the extent  [*216]  the lawyer reasonably believes necessary...to
prevent reasonably certain death or substantial bodily harm." n47 We have never
contemplated going this far outside of the bounds of the attorney-client
relationship. For one, we do not believe that an attorney is in a position to
conduct risk assessments or make such determinations based on "the facts and
circumstances of the case" and the "intuition of the lawyer." n48 That
conclusion, however, says little more than reaffirming our commitment to
confidentiality. It does not answer the thornier question of the lawyer's
responsibility to the client's direction, the client's safety, and the court.

   While we are exploring whether the lawyer must follow the client's directions
when those directions place the client in physical jeopardy, in no way are we
suggesting that the client's directions are not rational. To the contrary, the
problem is accentuated or created by the fact that the client's reasons are
quite rational from one perspective, i.e. economics, but from another
perspective place her in great physical danger.

   III. The Role of Financial Factors and Economic Dependency

 In our case study, financial factors played a predominant role in Barbara's
decision not to report restraining or protective order violations. This is not
unusual. Financial reasons often play a primary role in a victim's decision
about whether to separate from an abuser or seek assistance from the civil or
criminal justice systems. When a victim is not financially independent,
separation or pursuit of criminal remedies can be almost impossible. Economic
dependency is commonly cited as the primary reason victims do not separate from
abusers. n49 Victims can be thrown into poverty when they leave an abusive
relationship. n50

   Domestic violence victims are already financial disempowered simply because
they are women. Women experience discriminatory disadvantage in the paid labor
force. n51 Gender discrimination in employment, including hiring, status, and
compensation, n52 and lack of access  [*217]  to credit economically
disadvantages women. n53 In the home, patriarchy supports men in urging women to
opt out of the paid labor market or devote a greater amount of time to unpaid
domestic labor. Regardless of whether it is a choice or due to pressure from a
male partner, women assume financial losses by taking significantly more time
out of the paid labor market to raise children and by performing more unpaid
domestic chores like cooking, cleaning, and shopping. n54 While men could
compensate women for their domestic labor, or women could seek compensation from
partners for this labor under theories of implied contract n55 or quantum
meruit, n56 this domestic labor remains almost wholly uncompensated. n57

   Economic abuse is present in most domestic violence relationships, which
further compounds gender-related financial disadvantages. Male authority
normalizes men's abuse of female intimate partners and its economic
consequences. n58 Domestic violence relationships  [*218]  tend to follow
traditional gender roles, with the abuser being particularly attached to his
male privilege. n59 An abuser is likely to insist that his female partner carry
most of the responsibility for "womanly tasks" like housekeeping and childcare.
He sees himself as the breadwinner, with breadwinning being central to his sense
of masculinity. n60 When a victim seeks to challenge these gender roles, the
abuser uses controlling or violent behavior to protect his financial dominance,
reinforce his male privilege, or further the power imbalance in the
relationship. Abusers commonly prohibit their partners from pursuing an
education or employment and usually control the financial resources of the
relationship. n61 These behaviors are integral to economic abuse that is
frequently present in domestic violence relationships n62 and restrict a
victim's ability to leave.

   Leaving an abusive relationship is extremely difficult, especially when a
victim has dependent children, few or no job skills, and little or no employment
experience. n63 Class can play a complex role in a victim's decision about her
financial ability to separate from an abuser. Some victims will accept the most
basic of shelter and subsistence. Others seek a home in a good neighborhood,
high quality education for their children, nice cars, vacations, and other
comfortable amenities. n64 Regardless, separation is likely to force a victim
into a lower quality of life. The victim may have to move to a less desirable
neighborhood, leave a job, or give up her childcare. n65 She may lose  [*219]
her ability to buy necessities for herself or her children and may be
disconnected from her support network. n66 Due to the effects of economic
deprivation, she may risk losing custody of her children through child
protective services.

   State intervention can cause additional hardship. An abuser can lose his job
or the prospect of employment due to arrest, prosecution, or incarceration. Lost
employment means that the victim can no longer receive financial support from
the abuser through child support, alimony, or other financial contributions. The
victim's economic dependence on the abuser often makes her reluctant to
prosecute any criminal charges. n67 Victims deliberate whether "they can afford
to prioritize prosecution over other more immediate concerns such as food,
employment, and childcare." n68 In one survey of prosecutors, defense attorneys,
judges, and victim advocates, the "overwhelming reason" given for victims'
reluctance to participate in the criminal system was the financial resources of
the victim and her financial dependence on the abuser. n69 One prosecutor
estimated that victims give a financial reason for wanting to drop the charges
in ninety-nine percent of the cases; another prosecutor estimated that victims
cite financial reasons for requesting that the charges be dropped in fifty
percent of cases. n70

   Within the litany of reasons why domestic violence victims would avoid
criminal justice interventions, financial dependence on the abuser remains the
primary reason that victims opt out. n71 Research reveals the significant
financial impact incarceration has on families, regardless of the reason for the
incarceration. As early as 1928, families of incarcerated individuals were found
to have suffered financially  [*220]  "to the point of scarcely being able to
'eke out an existence.'" n72 Today, any parent's incarceration creates
significant economic deprivation to families. n73 This deprivation is largely
due to the loss of income that the incarcerated parent may have provided to the
family but also includes lost "informal contributions" like child care, social
support, and the purchase of toys and diapers. n74

   Incarceration can compromise the well-being of family members and require
family members to make sacrifices. Custodial parents may have less time or money
to invest in their children. n75 They may be required to take on additional
employment which results in increased child care costs. Older children may be
required to leave school and enter the job market to supplement household
income. n76 In addition, the loss of a parent and the financial difficulties
that result from incarceration can cause children to suffer from a range of
emotional, psychological, and behavioral problems. n77

   State intervention can create a quagmire that pits a victim's interests in
financial security against her interests in safety. Thus many victims are put in
the position of "choosing" between financial support from the abuser and state
intervention. We do not suggest that a victim is truly "choosing" between
economic security and physical safety. The choices available to domestic
violence victims are limited and complicated by coercion, the threat of harm,
and imperfect options, and we use the notion of "choice" guardedly. Our case
study offers an opportunity to examine the "choice" of financial security over
self-protection when reporting domestic violence incidents and violations of
restraining and protective orders would negatively impact a victim's financial
security. Further inquiry into criminal justice policies regarding domestic
violence reveals why a victim might "choose" financial security over personal
safety.

[*221]

   IV. Other Reasons Why Domestic Violence Victims Opt Out of Court Protections

   A. The Criminal Justice System and Mandatory Policies

 Victims may be reluctant to enlist the assistance of the police or the criminal
justice system because that system and its consequences are largely out of their
control. Reporting an incident of domestic violence or violation of a
restraining or protective order operationalizes the criminal justice system. All
fifty states treat a violation of a civil restraining order as a criminal
matter. n78 In our case study, Barbara asked us to advocate to stop to criminal
proceedings. In one instance, she asked us to intervene with the prosecutor to
not pursue charges against Tom. In another, she begged us to persuade the family
court judge to not act on Tom's violation of the restraining order. Throughout
the relationship, Barbara claimed that her domestic violence injuries resulted
from all manners of clumsiness so as to avoid the possibility of prosecution.
Barbara's situation is hardly unusual. Mandatory arrest and prosecution,
warrantless arrest, and other problems with the criminal justice system lead
many victims to try to "opt out" of criminal remedies.

   Mandatory arrest and mandatory prosecution policies drive state intervention
in domestic violence situations in many jurisdictions. n79 Mandatory arrest
policies require law enforcement to make an arrest when there is probable cause
to believe that domestic violence has occurred, regardless of the victim's
preferences. n80 Mandatory prosecution policies require the prosecutor to pursue
charges against the abuser if there is evidence of a crime of domestic violence
regardless of the victim's desire to pursue prosecution. n81 Even in
jurisdictions without mandatory intervention policies, the state's interests and
concerns  [*222]  supplant those of the victim.

   These policies can play a substantial role in a victim's decision about
whether to involve police or the criminal court. In a mandatory arrest or
prosecution jurisdiction, if a victim reports a domestic violence incident or a
restraining or protective order violation, the state moves toward arrest and
prosecution, even if arrest or prosecution are not favored by the victim or in
the victim's best interests. Even in jurisdictions that do not follow mandatory
arrest or prosecution policies, reporting an incident of domestic violence or
violation of a restraining or protective order often will initiate state
involvement.

   Policy arguments over whether mandatory policies are the right approach to
domestic violence are heated. Proponents of mandatory policies argue that
mandatory policies are necessary because they require otherwise reluctant
prosecutors to follow through with prosecution; n82 ensure uniform treatment of
domestic violence crimes even when the victim does not cooperate or want the
criminal case to proceed; n83 remove the burden of choosing whether to prosecute
from the victim;" n84 and reduce racial discrimination in the criminal justice
system by seeking to ensure that all perpetrators, regardless of race, are
treated similarly. n85

   Opponents of mandatory intervention believe that these policies do not serve
the larger goal of ending domestic violence, deny the needs of individual
victims, and even replace the control of the abuser with the control of the
state. n86 Opponents are concerned that these universally applied strategies do
not account for the reasons women stay in abusive relationships; n87 ignore
superseding financial, cultural, or emotional issues; n88 force a decision on
victims without taking into account their individual needs; n89 and disempower
victims and strip them of their autonomy. n90

   Warrantless arrest in domestic violence cases also creates situations in
which cases may be pursued against victim wishes. Prior to  [*223]  the domestic
violence movement's legal reform efforts, n91 the typical police response to
domestic violence was to tell the husband or boyfriend to "take a walk around
the block." n92 Police often did not have the legal authority to make an arrest
at the scene of a domestic violence crime. n93 That era has ended. Now all fifty
states allow an officer to make a warrantless arrest when the officer has
probable cause to believe that an abuser has committed a misdemeanor or violated
a restraining order. n94 This means that the criminal justice system can be
operationalized even if a domestic violence victim does not report an incident
or call the police. A neighbor's phone call could be enough to initiate arrest
or prosecution.

   Involving the criminal system can have other negative consequences for
victims, including sanctions when a victim has contact with an abuser who is
subject to a restraining order. Victims have been held criminally liable for
aiding and abetting an abuser in violating a restraining order when the victim
has had contact with the abuser. n95 Victims have also been held in contempt for
having contact with an abuser when a restraining order is in effect. One
Kentucky judge held two different victims in contempt for having contact with an
abuser who was subject to a restraining order. n96 The judge fined one victim $
100 and the other $ 200 as a penalty for contempt. n97 Other  [*224]  judges in
Kentucky have incarcerated women because they contacted their husbands while a
restraining order was in effect. n98

   Victims may be compelled to participate in criminal proceedings against their
will by subpoena, threatened incarceration, or other means. n99 For example, in
State v. Finney, n100 the prosecutor subpoenaed the victim - who had been raped
by her husband - and then threatened her with arrest if she failed to testify.
During her compelled testimony, the victim indicated that she had been harassed
and intimidated by the prosecutor. She stated that she did not want to testify
but that she was afraid not to and believed the prosecutor would ensure she was
arrested immediately after leaving the courtroom for her failure to testify.
n101 In Tejeda v. State, n102 the trial court judge ordered the victim to remain
in the courtroom in case the court needed her and stated, "If you leave, you'll
be in contempt of Court and I'll have you put in jail." n103 The court also
threatened that the court and the police would not assist her in the future as a
result of her reluctance to testify. n104

   Victims may experience penalties or harassment from the criminal system for
"recanting" or committing perjury. n105 In State v. Spraggins, the victim
requested that charges be dismissed and asserted that her earlier statement
about a domestic violence incident was false. n106 The victim was subpoenaed to
testify, and during cross-examination of the victim, the trial court stated in
the presence of the jury, "So let me see if I've got this all straight. We're
here trying this case because you are a liar. Is that correct? Do you want to
answer the question yes or no? We are here going through this, trying this case
because you are a liar, is that correct?" n107 In State v. Hancock, the wife
recanted at trial despite prior written and videotaped statements to the
contrary. n108 The trial court threatened to send her to prison for five years
for perjury and went on to say, "So, either he goes or you go, what is it going
to be. You got kids?... What is it going to be? Who is going to jail,  [*225]
you or him?" n109

   It is no wonder that victims try to opt out of the protections provided by
the criminal justice system. "Attrition dismissal rates" in domestic violence
cases are extremely high. n110 A series of studies have shown that victims fail
to participate in criminal cases arising from domestic violence in about 60% to
80% of cases. n111 Such attrition may occur as a result of a victim dropping
charges or recanting. n112 Other modes of noncooperation include failure to
cooperate with the police, sign the complaint, meet with the prosecutor, and
appear at court hearings. n113 One study found that judges, lawyers, and other
court personnel perceive that 56% of domestic violence victims will only testify
if subpoenaed, n114 that 31% of victims change their minds about the abuser's
guilt, and 31% undermine the prosecution's case. n115 Experts on domestic
violence - including psychologists, counselors, law enforcement officers,
shelter employees, and victim advocates - regularly testify that it is common
for domestic violence victims to recant. n116

   Many victims eschew criminal system involvement by trying to avoid
intervention at all. A staggering amount of domestic violence goes unreported.
One study indicated that 55% of intimate violence is never reported to the
police. n117 Another study found that less than 10% of seriously injured victims
report abuse to the police and even fewer report if they are endangered by but
escape serious injury. n118 In yet another study, about 47% of victims tried to
opt out of the criminal  [*226]  system before the case was even brought to the
attention of the prosecutor's office. n119 Victims are instead turning to the
family law system where they are requesting civil restraining orders in droves.
n120 Violation of this civil remedy often results in criminal prosecution, a
consequence that may be unintended and unknown by many victims.

   The high rates of victim nonparticipation in the criminal justice system are
unsettling and indicate the problematic nature of the system for domestic
violence victims. The victim may not want to involve the criminal justice system
because the system does not meet her needs. n121 If the system successfully
addressed domestic violence, victim engagement would be more prevalent. n122 The
criminal justice system has emerged as the primary domestic violence
intervention strategy, n123 but it is failing victims.

   Victims may avoid the criminal justice system because of how they are treated
by judges, lawyers, and other court personnel. Victims who do not cooperate or
do not separate from the abuser are viewed by some judges and lawyers as
"pathetic, stupid, or even deserving of the abuse." n124 Those who do cooperate
are seen by these same actors as "vindictive, crazy, or falsely charging
domestic violence to meet their own selfish needs." n125

   Other factors may deter involvement. Victims who may otherwise seek
intervention might not bother contacting law enforcement because of low arrest
rates for domestic violence incidents. n126 Victims may not participate because
they may not perceive the conduct as criminal or abusive or believe that it is a
personal matter. n127 They may not understand how the system works or may have
logistical barriers  [*227]  such as not having transportation, time, money, or
childcare. n128 They may fear that the abuser will retaliate by reporting the
victim to child protective services and alleging abuse, neglect, or substance
abuse. n129 Post-traumatic stress disorder created by the abuse may make it
difficult or impossible to cooperate. n130

   Race, culture, and sexual orientation may also play a role in a victim's
decision as to whether to enlist the criminal justice system. n131 Victims may
choose not to call the police due to racism in law enforcement or because of a
community ethic against state intervention. n132 Women of color are less likely
to have contact with a prosecutor, want to press charges, or want prosecution
than white women. n133 (Barbara and Tom are both white). Gay, lesbian, and
transgender victims may avoid the criminal system because of prior negative
experiences with law enforcement or the courts or due to fear of reprisals from
the system. n134

   While we are focusing on economic issues and problems arising from criminal
justice system intervention, we do not want to ignore other factors - including
fear of retaliation, risks due to immigrant status, and love for or attachment
to the abuser - that may feature prominently in a victim's decision about
whether to enforce a restraining or protective order or report an act of
domestic violence. At the risk of raising new questions that we do not attempt
to answer, we briefly address issues related to separation assault, immigration
and immigrant status, and the role of love or attachment, all of which must be
considered to grasp the complexity of the issues facing a domestic violence
victim.

   B. Retaliation

 An abused woman may decide not to involve the criminal justice system because
of the abuser's threat of violence or the victim's fear of retaliation. n135
When a victim separates or decides to separate from  [*228]  her abuser, the
risk of violence escalates, especially if the couple was cohabitating. n136 This
"separation assault" is "the particular assault on a woman's body and volition
that seeks to block her from leaving, retaliate for her departure, or forcibly
end the separation." n137 Domestic violence is most likely to become lethal when
a victim separates from her abuser. n138 In 56% of intimate partner femicide (or
the murder of women) cases, the abuser and victim were living apart on the day
of the murder. n139 Separation was the "immediate precipitating factor" in 45%
of intimate partner femicides. n140 Victims will often postpone leaving the
abuser fearing separation assault n141 and will only choose to separate or
pursue criminal justice protections if it seems possible or safe to do so. n142
Additionally, the victim may be terrified that the abuser will harm her, family
members, or loved ones if she pursues criminal remedies. n143

   C. Immigration and Immigrant Status

 Noncitizen women are even less likely than citizens to involve the criminal
justice system because of cultural beliefs, language limitations, or other
barriers. n144 Immigrant women tend to feel more pressure to live up to cultural
ideals and fear that separation is disloyal to  [*229]  their culture and will
lead to community stigmatization or sanctions. n145 A victim might not be able
to speak or be literate in English, and interpretation in the woman's language
may not be available through the criminal justice system. n146 Immigrant women
also face greater financial risks in separating from an abusive partner. n147

   Immigrant victims rarely call the police, n148 in part because of possible
immigration consequences for their non-citizen abusers. A conviction for
domestic violence or violating a restraining order is a removable offense,
meaning that the abuser can be deported on that basis. n149 For some victims,
removal of the abuser is a positive development that lowers or eliminates the
risk of future violence. n150 Others do not want to begin a course of conduct
that may result in the abuser being deported. If the abuser is the parent of the
victim's children, the victim may not want to sever the parent-child
relationship through the abuser's removal. The victim may be receiving financial
support from the abuser through child support, alimony, or other means, and the
abuser's deportation would mean almost certain cessation of that support.
Finally, for emotional reasons, the victim may not want the abuser to suffer
such a severe penalty as removal. n151

   A victim may choose not to report abuse fearing her own adverse immigration
consequences. n152 Undocumented victims assume an element of risk when
interacting with law enforcement. n153 Some jurisdictions,  [*230]  like
Arizona, require law enforcement to verify the immigration status of any person
suspected of being undocumented. n154 While other jurisdictions do not inquire
about the immigration status of victims, n155 every time a victim interacts with
law enforcement there is some chance that she will come to the attention of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

   D. Love and Attachment

 Love or attachment can be controlling factors in a victim's decision whether to
report an abuser's behavior or terminate the relationship. n156 Victims are
often emotionally attached to their abusers and sometimes do not want to see
them incarcerated or punished. These emotions can lead to continuing contact or
a relationship with the abuser. Victims may rationalize the abusers' behavior,
attributing it to substance abuse or a troubled childhood. n157 Reporting
abusive conduct or terminating contact with the abuser may require the victim to
give up a fantasy of a healthy relationship with the abuser. n158 The role of
love in a victim's decision even can trump economic factors in a victim's
decision about whether to separate or report abuse. n159 As one prosecutor
stated, "They love the person. They're afraid that going forward will break up
their relationship, and most of the time they don't want to break up." n160

   It is from within this morass that victims ask their attorneys to advocate or
not advocate on their behalf, or to pick and choose from possible remedies. When
the victim is faced with so many potential negative consequences, it is no
wonder that victims ask their attorneys to help them avoid state intervention
even when their safety is at risk. The lawyer is left to question whether she
should engage in the requested advocacy (or non-advocacy) and if it is ethically
or morally responsible to do so. We turn to the issue of different lawyering
models  [*231]  for guidance about how an attorney might approach a
victim-client's decision.

   There are different views on how lawyers approach clients and issues. We
believed, and continue to believe, in "client-centered lawyering." We might have
treated this issue differently if we were "cause lawyers." It may be helpful to
consider what it means to be a client-centered lawyer or a cause lawyer in the
context of a domestic violence case.

   V. Different Lawyering Models: Client-Centered Lawyering and Cause Lawyering

   A. Client-Centered Lawyering

 Starting in the late 1970s, lawyers and law school clinics started to move from
a traditional lawyer-client relationship to an alternative "client-centered
model," n161 encouraging lawyers and law students to develop meaningful
relationships n162 with their clients and depart from a traditionally
paternalistic and adversarial approach to litigation. n163 Over time,
client-centered lawyering has increasingly focused on treating the client
holistically, emphasizing problem-solving, and not just the client's immediate
case." n164

   Client-centered lawyering has four primary components:



    (1) it draws attention to the critical importance of non-legal aspects of a
client's situation; (2) it places the lawyer's role in the representation within
limitations set by a sharply circumscribed view of the lawyer's professional
expertise; (3) it insists on the primacy of client decision-making; and (4) it
places a high value on the lawyers' understanding their clients' perspectives,
emotions and values. n165



    Client-centered lawyering seeks to place the client in control of the
[*232]  attorney-client relationship and decision-making. Client-centered
lawyering is a model that "puts the attorney in the role of an open, accepting
helper and leaves both priority-setting and decision-making to the client. The
lawyer helps the client determine what is best for him in light of his own
priorities." n166 In client-centered counseling, "the emphasis is on achieving
the greatest client satisfaction." n167

   This model represents a diversion from the traditional paternalistic,
attorney-knows-best role that many attorneys adopt, where the decision-making is
based upon the attorney's knowledge, priorities, and beliefs, rather than the
client's interests. n168 Client-centered lawyering advocates suggest that the
adversarial legal system encourages attorneys to make choices on behalf of their
clients that are strategically wise, while failing to recognize the client's
interest in participating in decision-making. Advocates believe the traditional
approach is a product of the adversarial legal system and the approach toward
lawyering that was taught in law school. In contrast, in a client-centered
lawyering relationship, "the client does not perceive himself as, and is not, an
instrument to be manipulated by the lawyer." n169 A client of a client-centered
lawyer "directs his own destiny, relying on the lawyer as a helper and as a
guide through the legal labyrinths." n170 This model "emphasizes autonomy and
individual growth" for the client. n171

   Under the client-centered model, mutual trust between the parties will
empower the client to assume the dominant role of decision-maker, and the
attorney can adopt a more passive role as the client's counselor. n172 The
responsibility and ability to develop mutual trust between the lawyer and client
rests entirely on the attorney, who is traditionally seen as being in control of
the relationship. The lawyer should place himself or herself in the client's
position, attempting to understand the client's situation and emotions. n173

   A client-centered lawyer helps the client select the best course of action,
rather than merely outlining the options and instructing the client to pick the
path of his choice. Many scholars writing about client-centered lawyering use
the term "holistic" to describe the lawyer's  [*233]  role within this model.
n174 The lawyer remains neutral and serves as a resource to the client during
his decision-making process. n175

   While this model is intended to allow the client to make all decisions
autonomously, involving the lawyer only when necessary, some scholars believe
this cannot work in practice. n176 One critic argues that the differences
between the client-centered and traditional models are nonexistent when applied
to everyday lawyering:



    The client-centered literature fails to present even a single example in
which a lawyer sits down with a client and walks through alternative case
theories and their implications for the case and client. In this respect, the
client-centered approach differs little from the traditional approach, which
relegates virtually every decision about case theory to lawyers. n177



    Other critics argue that clients are not in the best position to make legal
decisions. Instead, when a client hires you, he demonstrates "tacit willingness
for you to make lawyering skills decisions free from consultation" with them.
n178

   The difficulty is in the execution. Professor Jane Stoever writes about
teaching her students to be "client-centered and client-empowering advocates who
provide representation that enhances both a survivors' safety and autonomy."
n179 Implicit in client-centered lawyering is that the client may reach a
different decision than the lawyer. Having fostered that autonomy, what do we do
when autonomy and safety diverge? Professors Susan Bryant and Maria Arias also
discuss empowering their clinic's domestic violence clients as part of the
clinic's design. n180 Professors Bryant and Arias note that a client-centered
approach "allows the students to see patterns of oppression and...recognize the
uniqueness of each client's situation." n181 They discuss a case in which the
students determined that the client wanted to file court papers seeking custody
and a restraining order, which the  [*234]  students prepared, but the client
missed her appointment to sign the papers. The students later learned through a
social worker that the client, while afraid of her husband, was not ready to
pursue a legal remedy. n182 Professors Bryant and Arias note that the clinic's
client empowerment "allows the client to participate in defining what a lawyer's
role should be," n183 and that in such a relationship, the lawyer's role
"changes with each client because the lawyer alone does not set the professional
boundaries." n184

   Professor Michelle Jacobs endorses client-based lawyering as a good model for
students, but states that a major weakness is the failure to address race,
class, and (to a lesser extent) gender in the attorney/client relationship. n185
Professor Jacobs argues that the purpose of client-centered lawyering as a model
is to "return the client to the centrality of the lawyer's work," but that
clients, particularly clients of color (and women?) are still at the margins of
the relationship. n186 She reminds us that everyone - including lawyers, law
students, and law professors - have preconceived notions rooted in our cultural
background. n187

   In the domestic violence arena, our preconceived notions often center on our
difficulty in accepting that a victim of domestic violence remains with her
abuser. A great deal of the literature on domestic violence tries to answer the
question, "Why do abused women stay?" As lawyers, we translate that question to
"What can we do to help our client leave?" As Professor Jacobs points out, only
when we see the client's reality can we truly work with the client in a
collaborative way. n188

   Putting aside our preconceived notions does not answer our question of
limits, i.e. is there a point at which we cannot assist the client in relation
to the court or her own risky behavior, but it does move us further down the
road. In our case study, this was the single most important factor in acting as
we did.

   B. Cause Lawyering

 As Austin Sarat and Stuart Scheingold have noted, "providing a single, cross
culturally valid definition of the concept [of cause lawyering]  [*235]  is
impossible." n189 Writing on the intersections of race, space, and poverty, John
Calmore writes that "cause lawyering encompasses various law-related activities,
from rights assertion to legal counseling, that relies on law-related means to
achieve social justice for individuals and subordinated or disadvantaged
groups." n190 Stuart Scheingold n191 describes cause lawyering as
"left-activist." n192 Richard Abel writes that "the moments when law offers
leverage to the relatively powerless as well as those when it is wielded, or
trumped, by power" are "occasions for cause lawyering," n193 and Thomas Hilbink,
reviewing Sarat and Scheingold, comments on the definitional difficulty, noting
that "belief in a cause and a desire to advance that cause are the forces that
drive cause lawyering actions" for cause lawyers, but "how does one determine
what fits within the rubric?" n194 Ann Southworth, one of the few scholars who
has examined the right's response to the historic left-leaning cause lawyering,
shows that the "cause" in cause lawyering can be broad indeed, and virtually
every progressive cause lawyer now has a conservative counterpart. n195 Today,
for every cause, we can be confident that there are cause lawyers on every side
of the issue.

   Cause lawyering in the field of domestic violence can take a variety of
approaches. Karen Czapanskiy notes that "women lawyers and law professors were
the first to construct the issue as a legal problem," partly as a consequence of
the identification of the battering of women as an issue affecting women's
liberation. Feminist women lawyers were instrumental in developing the theory
and legal regime addressing domestic violence issues. n196 These efforts took a
variety of forms, including criminal defense, n197 family law in both legal
services  [*236]  offices n198 and private practice, n199 and state and federal
legislative efforts to establish governmental intervention on behalf of domestic
violence victims, a remarkably successful effort resulting in restraining order
statutes and other protections in every state, n200 as well as the passage of
the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 1994 and reauthorizations in 2000,
2005, and 2013. n201

   Still, today's domestic violence lawyers may agree on the cause, but not
necessarily the approach. Twenty years after Professor Czapanskiy emphasized
their seminal role, feminist attorneys still play a major role in representing
individual clients in domestic violence cases, but the advocacy community is
split into those who support and those who oppose mandatory arrest.

   Mandatory arrest and no-drop prosecutions have placed prosecutors in a more
prominent role. As Deborah Epstein has noted, activists have focused on
"transforming the responses of police, prosecutors, and the courts." n202 Legal
reforms include warrantless arrest, mandatory arrest, no-drop prosecutions, and
temporary orders with substantial implications and few procedural protections.
n203

   Donna Wills, a veteran family violence prosecutor in Los Angeles, has written
that she "firmly believes" that an aggressive no-drop and no-dismissal policy
"is the enlightened approach to domestic violence prosecutions." n204 Wills
approaches domestic violence through a cause lawyer's lens, stating that it is a
societal problem, not just an individual or private problem, with a strong State
interest in maintaining public safety. In focusing on the State interest, Wills
expands the protective umbrella to include children as secondary victims. n205
To Wills (and other supporters of mandatory arrest and no-drop policies), these
policies prevent batterers from controlling the justice system through their
victims. n206 Under this approach, the domestic violence victim is best
protected by having no power, with decision-making resting with the State, in
the form of the police and prosecutor.

    [*237]  As Wills admits, there is no evidence that mandatory arrest and
no-drop policies reduce the incidence of domestic violence. n207 Betsy Tsai, a
Domestic Violence Resource Coordinator for the New York City Courts, notes that
criminal justice system employees are "frustrated and embarrassed by their
inability to protect victims of domestic violence," and suggests that the court
system should look toward specialized domestic violence courts. n208 The
specialized courts incorporate therapeutic jurisprudence, a multidisciplinary
effort to provide comprehensive services. n209 Therapeutic jurisprudence is a
reaction to the inevitable mental health and psychological functioning of the
participants in the legal system. n210 In practice, a therapeutic approach would
include a supportive and informative environment to the victim, victim and
witness advocates, police training, more careful monitoring of defendant
compliance with court orders, and participation in intervention programs for
abusers. n211 This does not mean that the victim regains control of the
decisions that so dramatically affect her life. In many jurisdictions employing
a therapeutic jurisprudence system, the State, not the victim, controls the
case. n212

   VI. When Private Rights Become Public and Courts Intervene

 In the Mary Adkins/Elizabeth Tulis g-chat, Elizabeth Tulis wrote that "once you
enter the criminal law system, it's not just the interest of the victim, but of
society that is at issue. Going into the system, you marshal the resources of
the state to protect you, but you also cede some control of the case to the
State." Mary and Elizabeth raise the question of whether private rights become
public once a victim seeks state intervention. Does society have an independent
interest in enforcing the restraining order?

   Courts have allowed the public interest to transcend private choices,
including forced feeding in prisons n213 and forced medical care to children,
even in the face of religious opposition by the child's parents. n214 The
commonality in these cases is the likelihood of harm, and the public interest in
preventing that harm. The question, when it  [*238]  comes to domestic violence
cases, is the extent to which we are comfortable predicting future violence, and
whether or not our conclusions should affect our representation of clients who
are at risk. In the area of domestic violence, the rationale behind mandatory
arrest policies and forced testimony combines the notions of many of the themes
of this paper, including a patronizing view of protecting the victim from her
inability to protect herself, a reformist attitude of treating all cases
uniformly, the criminalization of domestic violence, and the transfer of
decision-making to the State. Does State involvement, either through civil or
criminal process, turn a private domestic violence matter into a public issue?

   As we discussed earlier, several courts have sanctioned women or forced them
to testify when the women refused to cooperate with the State in pursuing
domestic violence remedies or testifying in criminal matters. Implicit in these
decisions is a belief that the right to withdraw from civil or criminal
prosecution has been supplanted by State interests. To get a sense of judicial
reasoning in domestic violence cases, it helps to look at death penalty cases,
where the issue of public rights trumping the private attorney-client
relationship has arisen prominently.

   In 1987, a Connecticut court sentenced Michael Ross to death, after he
confessed to murdering eight women. n215 He fought execution for seventeen
years, but ultimately withdrew all appeals and requested that the execution go
forward, n216 starting a new proceeding questioning whether a defendant can
rationally and competently choose to die, and whether the public has a right to
contest an execution. The Chief Public Defender's office sought to intervene in
Ross's case, arguing that Ross was trying to commit "judicial, state-assisted
suicide," an argument based on Ross's alleged incompetence to make the decision
to consent to the execution. n217 Ross's former lawyer, the Office of the Public
Defender, argued that Ross's execution would make executions "more socially and
politically" acceptable, an issue of great importance to the Public Defender's
other clients facing execution. n218

   The Public Defender's prediction was almost certainly factually  [*239]
correct, but this is not how attorneys usually act. Rule 1.9(1) of the Model
Rules of Professional Conduct n219 explicitly prohibited the Public Defender
from representing an interest adverse to Ross, and Rule 1.9(2) explicitly
prohibited using information obtained during representation against Ross's
interests. n220 How, then, could the Public Defender use its knowledge of Ross's
mental condition as the basis for legal actions that, in the words of Ross's
subsequent attorney, T.R. Paulding, "are contrary to the defendant's wishes or
desires"? n221 The answer - and this is not much of an answer - is that some
issues raise public as well as private rights.

   Ross understood the incongruous nature of the proceedings, stating on his web
site that "I fully support their position and efforts to bring about the
abolition of capital punishment in this state...But, I do have a problem when
they interfere with my personal decisions...to resolve this case in a manner
that I believe will harm the least number of people... .These are decisions that
I and I alone, must make." n222 Ross objected to the actions of the Public
Defender, stating "what I'm hoping is that January 26, I will be executed. I
just don't understand why the public defenders can't understand that. I mean,
it's so simple. And it's my damned decision." n223

   Ross's sister and father each filed separate next-friend actions, his sister
arguing that Ross was not mentally competent to waive his rights, and his father
arguing that his rights were being violated because he could not "volunteer" to
be executed. n224 The case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Robert Chatigny,
who raised concerns about the competency claims. n225 Paulding argued that Ross
understood the appeals process, was knowledgeable about death penalty law, and
was choosing to forego appeals. n226 He stated that Ross "had made a logical,
rational decision. He needed a voice in our court system...I think I'm an
attorney before I'm a defense attorney... .I think your duty, your basic duty as
an attorney, is to represent your client." n227

   Judge Chatigny tried to persuade Paulding to pursue an appeal  [*240]
despite Ross's expressed wishes of his client, n228 telling him, "what you are
doing is terribly, terribly wrong. No matter how well motivated you are, you
have a client whose competence is in serious doubt and you don't know what you
are talking about," n229 that failure to pursue an appeal was malpractice, n230
and threatening to go after Paulding's license to practice law if future
evidence showed that Ross was not competent. n231 Paulding got the message, and
filed motions for another competency hearing in state court. The state court
held that Ross was mentally competent to waive future appeals and proceed to his
execution. n232 He was executed on May 13, 2005. n233

   In 1996, the New Jersey Supreme Court, considering a similar question,
explicitly transformed the defendant's rights into a public question, holding
that appeals of a death sentence were mandatory and could not be waived, n234
stating that the public interest "transcends the preferences of individual
defendants." n235 Like Ross, John Martini requested that his execution proceed
as scheduled and that his public defender not pursue post-conviction relief. In
proceeding with a post-conviction review, the court noted that:



    It is difficult to explain why a murderer who has admitted his guilt and had
his conviction and sentence of death affirmed on direct appeal should not be
granted his request to be executed immediately. For some, no explanation may be
necessary. For others, no explanation will suffice. For those who wish to
understand, we explain that under our form of government it is not the inmate on
death row or the accused who determines when and whether the State shall execute
a prisoner; rather, the law itself makes that determination. The public has an
interest in the reliability and integrity of a death sentencing decision that
transcends the preferences of individual defendants. n236



    The court recognized that its view was not universal:



    We acknowledge that other jurisdictions do not recognize the standing of one
such as the Public Defender to prosecute a post-conviction  [*241]  relief
application on behalf of a death row inmate who does not seek their assistance.
It is a natural reaction for some to wish to be rid of an admitted murderer who
asks to be executed. The Court is nonetheless required to ensure the integrity
of death sentences in New Jersey. n237



    Martini changed his mind, and requested that his Public Defender pursue any
available remedies. n238 He was subsequently convicted of three additional
murders in Pennsylvania and Arizona. n239 On July 26, 2006, the New Jersey
Supreme Court upheld Martini's death sentence, but New Jersey had imposed a
moratorium on the death penalty six months earlier. n240 Martini died in prison
in 2009. n241

   Are public rights implicated in domestic violence cases? As Elizabeth Tulis
noted, when a victim obtains a restraining order, not to mention a protective
order, she cedes some authority to the State. Do we, as lawyers, cede a part of
our relationship with our clients?

   We are trained as lawyers to separate ourselves from the consequences to
third parties of our representation. Criminal defense attorneys accept that they
are representing the accused, not the victim, society, or the hypothetical
future victim. Attorneys representing a parent in a dependency and neglect case
take direction from the parent, regardless of qualms about the child's future
care. In domestic violence cases, we accept that there are valid reasons why
women do not leave the abuser, and that additional abuse may, and often does,
occur during the representation. There is a different quality to a case in which
a client is using the lawyer's legal services to avoid a court order meant to
protect her. Is there a point at which this becomes a public right, enforceable
by the state?

   While it is rare, victims, having obtained restraining orders, have been
charged with violating those orders, while some courts have struck down the
charges against the victim as a violation of the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. n242 The analogy to  [*242]  death cases may be useful on
a lethality scale, but falters when considering the competing interests of the
victim. When law enforcement intervenes and penalizes the victim for violating a
restraining order against her abuser, the focus of the legal system shifts from
the abuser to the victim and "the abuser is not held fully accountable." n243
The victim is prosecuted for inviting her abuser back into her life - often for
a legitimate purpose, such as to discuss childcare or request financial
assistance. n244

   When a civil restraining order can be enforced against either party, the
purposes of the restraining order system are undermined. Victims will be less
likely to report abuse for fear any action on theirs will be used against them;
abusers could use the restraining orders as continued ploys against their
battered victims; and the blame for the abuse shifts from the batterer to the
battered.

   In the abstract, the public enforcement of restraining orders, like mandatory
arrest policies, has advantages. However, in the context of domestic violence,
the public's interest in the victim's well-being is not so black and white. The
enforcement of the restraining order may serve the public good of protecting the
victim, but if the means necessary for that enforcement further victimizes the
battered woman and provides a disincentive for victims to report abuse at all,
then we need to question whether the benefit of enhanced enforcement outweighs
the inherent value of client-based decision-making.

   We are concerned about our clients' safety and we try to advise them as best
we can, but we are not in the business of predicting future harm. Others,
however, are. Predicting behavior and lethality assessments are increasingly a
part of law enforcement and safety planning, and it is useful to take a look at
this field.

   VII. Risk and Lethality Assessment and the Predictability of Violence (and
Does It Matter?)

 Legal scholars have devoted a good deal of effort to the question of character
evidence and how it can help predict behavior. Much of the discussion starts
with G.W. Allport, a psychologist, a founder of "trait theory." Allport believed
that traits were the most fundamental building blocks of personality. n245 Trait
theorists believed that traits were stable and enduring, and produced generally
consistent behavior  [*243]  over a variety of situations. n246 In the realm of
trait theory, a person who lies in one situation will lie in other situations; a
person who is violent in one circumstance will likely be violent in other
circumstances. n247 Trait theory would allow us to predict behavior, including
criminal behavior.

   Empirical research did not support the trait theorists. n248 Walter Mischel
found that "behavior depends on stimulus situations and is specific to the
situation: response patterns even in highly similar situations often fail to be
strongly related." n249 However, between 1968 and 1995, Mischel, along with his
colleague, Yuichi Shoda, modified his views on character traits and
predictability. Mischel and Shoda assert that we can develop a fuller
personality profile that includes a variety of psychological ingredients, one
that could successfully predict particularized behavior. n250

   More recently, Professor Edward Imwinkelried asserted that most recent
studies agree that predicting behavior based on interactions between character
traits and situations is more accurate than predictions based on either traits
or situations. n251 Since legal scholarship on predictability revolves around
the admissibility in court of character evidence, a theory "more accurate" is
different from "more likely than not," and is not going to result in
reconsidering long-standing rules of evidence. The question here, however, is
whether predictability should inform our representation of vulnerable clients.

   Domestic violence is a subset within the broader category of violent crime.
Many people, including members of Congress, believe that crimes of sexual
violence and child molestation deserve special treatment. To the chagrin of many
judges, lawyers, and scholars, Congress amended the Federal Rules of Evidence to
allow the admission of past similar acts in criminal cases in which the
defendant is accused of sexual assault n252 or child molestation, n253 and to
allow the admission of past similar actions for civil actions involving sexual
assault or child  [*244]  molestation. n254 In a Report submitted to Congress in
1995, the Judicial Conference requested that Congress reconsider Rules 413, 414,
and 415, reporting overwhelming opposition. Two years later, Katharine Baker
wrote that "Advocates of Rule 413...unabashedly and without proof suggest that
rapists are more likely than other criminals to repeat their acts. The evidence
that we have is to the contrary." n255 According to studies by the Bureau of
Justice Statistics, recidivism for drug offenses, larceny/theft, burglary, and
robbery are all much higher than rape, sexual assault, and child molestation. In
fact, only homicide is lower. n256

   That did not deter Congress or the State legislatures of California and
Illinois, both of which amended their rules of evidence to allow prior acts of
domestic violence in cases in which the victim was murdered. n257 California
acted in response to the O.J. Simpson acquittal and Illinois just prior to the
Scott Peterson trial, which culminated in a conviction.

   The history of predicting criminal behavior is, at best, a cautionary tale.
The ancient Greeks, including Aristotle, believed in physiognomy, the ability to
predict human character by physical appearance. In the 19th Century,
phrenologists believed they could predict future criminal behavior by certain
bumps on an individual's head. Phrenology was considered by many intellectuals
to be a real science. Bram Stoker in Dracula and Arthur Conan Doyle in The
Adventures of Sherlock Holmes both refer to phrenology with approval. No less
than Holmes himself, the epitome of rational thought, authoritatively states
that a new acquaintance is intelligent, based on the size of his skull.

   Recent popular culture has focused more on the supernatural. In 1956, Philip
K. Dick published The Minority Report, a short story in which psychics who are
able to see the future help the police to prevent murders before the occur. n258
The "Precrime" unit arrests future perpetrators, who are punished for the crimes
they would have committed. Dick placed his story 100 years in the future. The
story was made into a 2002 movie, with Tom Cruise playing Dick's fifty year old,
[*245]  balding, out-of-shape director of "Precrime," the organization charged
with arresting criminals before they commit their crime. n259 In the television
show The Profiler, the protagonist, who works for the FBI as a forensic analyst,
is particularly effective because of her ability to see through the eyes of
others. The more recent television trend, however, is toward a real-world
ability to predict crime, through computer-assisted analysis, as in Person of
Interest, or mathematics, as in Numbers.

   The real world has caught up, and predicting future crimes has entered the
mainstream. The Santa Cruz, California police department is using "predictive"
software, using an algorithm similar to the program used to predict earthquake
aftershocks. n260 Based on the findings of Santa Clara Assistant Professor
George Mohler that offenders tend to return to the scene of past successes, the
software predicts the location where another crime is likely to occur. n261 On
April 12, 2012, CBS News reported that Los Angeles joined the "predictive
policing" movement, with officers patrolling computer-generated hot spots to
prevent crimes before they occurred. n262 These and similar efforts are mundane
when compared to the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Future Attribute
Screening Technology (FAST) program.

   FAST's goal, as stated in a December 2011 DHS privacy impact assessment, is
to "determine whether technology can enable the identification and
interpretation of a screened subject's physiological and behavioral cues or
signatures without the need for operator-induced stimuli which, in turn, will
allow for security personnel to remotely (and therefore, more safely) identify
cues diagnostic of malintent (defined as the intent to cause harm)." n263 In
other words, FAST has been created to identify criminals before they commit
crimes, and it is no surprise that DHS identifies FAST as a "pre-crime" system,"
or that many commentators have compared it to Minority Report and Person  [*246]
of Interest. n264

   Causation and prediction hold a great deal of interest in the domestic
violence field. Domestic violence counselors are well-acquainted with the Power
and Control Wheel, developed in 1984 by the Domestic Abuse Intervention Project
in Duluth, Minnesota. n265 The Wheel is a diagnostic tool to help characterize
and explain abusive relationships, including domestic violence, and its use has
become part of the culture of identifying abusive relationship and counseling
victims. n266

   As described by its founders, the Wheel is used in a variety of settings,
including assisting battered women to see how their abusers' tactics are used
against them and better understand the batterers' control, to counsel men to
identify their own behavior, and to train law enforcement on the nature of the
abusive relationships and to better understand why women may not want to leave
the relationship. n267 The Power and Control Wheel is probably the most commonly
used interpretive tool in the field of intimate violence, but it rarely, if
ever, is used to predict violence.

   One of the earliest and best-known tools for predicting lethality is
Jacquelyn Campbell's Danger Assessment (DA), first developed in 1985, and
revised several times since. n268 It consists of a two-step assessment to
determine a woman's lethality risk. First, the woman is presented with a
calendar on which she documents all incidents of abuse during the previous
twelve months. This allows the victim to see a graphical depiction of her abuse
including patterns of abuse. Second, the woman answers a series of twenty
yes-or-no questions. While the questions are weighted, in general the greater
the number of "yes" responses, the greater the woman's risk of being killed by
her battering intimate partner. The Danger Assessment is easily accessed, and
women or those assisting them can complete can complete it online. n269 A
shorter, eleven-question Danger Assessment test is also available for law
enforcement use when responding to domestic disputes  [*247]  or battering
incidents. n270

   In the 1980's, Gavin de Becker developed the MOSAIC Threat Assessment System,
which, in its current computer-assisted form, is used by law enforcement
agencies, including the Supreme Court Police and U.S. Capitol Police, to assess
threats to public figures and others. n271 De Becker developed different MOSAIC
systems for a variety of situations, including domestic violence. De Becker
argues that "spousal homicide is the single most predictable serious crime in
America... .There is an urgent need to help police, prosecutors, and victims
systematically evaluate cases to identify those with the ingredients of true
danger." n272 De Becker's domestic violence tool is MOSAIC-20, a computer
program that evaluates cases to identify those in which the danger of homicide
is highest.

   In 1997, de Becker published The Gift of Fear and Other Survival Signs that
Protect Us from Violence. n273 The Gift of Fear was lauded by commentators from
Oprah Winfrey to Marcia Clark to many domestic violence victims who felt that
the book spoke to their experiences. n274 Even those reviewers who did not like
the writing or felt that De Becker was a pompous self-promoter praised the
book's message. n275 The Gift of Fear spent four months on the New York Times
best-seller list and was the number one non-fiction seller of 1997. n276 It was
followed by other successful De Becker books on fear and security. n277 Oprah
now offers De Becker's MOSAIC-20 free of charge on her website, touting it as
"the tool that could save your life." n278

    [*248]  The Danger Assessment and MOSAIC-20 are designed to predict lethal
violence or "extreme dangerousness." n279 There are other assessment
instruments, such as the Kingston Screening Instrument for Domestic Violence
(K-SID) and the Domestic Violence Screening Instrument (DVSI), which were
designed to diagnose the risk of repeat assault at any level. n280 Other
instruments that assess risk of reassault include the Spousal Assault Risk
Assessment (SARA) n281 and the Ontario Domestic Violence Risk Assessment
(ODARA). n282

   The Kingston Screening Instrument for Domestic Violence (K-SID) was developed
in 1998 by Richard Gelles. The K-SID method is a ten-question survey that is
provided to both the victim and abuser and is comprised of three parts: (1) a
poverty chart; (2) a severity and injury index; and (3) ten risk markers:
poverty, age, drugs/alcohol, domestic violence in family of origin, witness to
domestic violence as a child, marital status, child abuse by defendant,
education, employment, previous domestic violence arrests, and violations of
protective orders. The test scores the batterer as being at a low, moderate,
high, or very high "risk of reoffending." If a batterer has a previous domestic
violence arrest or has violated a protective order, he is automatically
classified as being at a "very high" risk of reoffense. n283

   The Domestic Violence Screening Instrument (DVSI) includes twelve questions
that are intended to indicate the batterer's level of dangerousness. Like the
K-SID, this method is not widely available for public use. n284 The DVSI is
based upon information received from the abuser, rather than the victim, which
differentiates it from the Danger Assessment or MOSAIC-20 methods. n285 The DVSI
is administered by criminal justice professionals to classify the offender at a
[*249]  particular risk level. Where the DVSI is used, it can serve as a tool
during the supervision of the offender or the provision of specific services to
the offender and victim. n286

   The National Institute of Justice surveyed the predictive value of the four
primary risk and lethality assessment methods: MOSAIC-20, the DA, the K-SID and
the DVSI. The National Institute of Justice report indicates that, overall, "all
four of the risk assessment tools were significantly related to subsequent
severity of abuse, but not very highly related." n287 A study of DVSI usage
between 2003 and 2007 found that the predictive value of the DVSI across all
risk groups was not statistically significant. n288

   The very existence of lethality and risk assessment tools reveals distrust in
domestic violence victims' ability to understand their situations or predict
their risk of being reassaulted or murdered. These instruments arise from the
belief that "most people do a poor job of evaluating their own risk for negative
outcomes." n289 Some researchers believe that domestic violence victims are
deficient in recognizing danger in domestic violence relationships. n290 Others
believe that victims cannot predict future violence even with the aid of risk
assessment instruments because "there is no real way to predict unpredictable
behavior." n291

   Contrary to the inherent claims of the various risk assessment tools, victims
are generally the best predictors of their own risk of being seriously injured.
n292 Victims have a unique ability to predict the violence and anticipate the
degree of violence. n293 Studies show that domestic violence victims' ratings of
their risk of future violence committed  [*250]  by an intimate partner are
fairly accurate. n294 Almost sixty-five% of domestic violence victims accurately
predict their risk of reassault. n295 Victims may not accurately predict lethal
violence, however. In one study, only about half of victims of intimate partner
homicide or attempted homicide recognized that their abusers were capable of
killing them. n296

   In judging risk, victims use different factors than those utilized by risk
assessment tools, including interpretations of the abuser's moods, facial
expressions, speech patterns, and verbal threats. n297 They also rely on abuser
personality traits and dynamic factors like the abuser's ability to find the
victim and his desire for revenge. n298 These factors are difficult for risk
assessment tools to capture. Victims also rely on some of the same factors used
by assessment tools to predict violence, including the status of the
relationship, the history of violence in the relationship, and substance use.
n299 Some of the instruments' primary indicators - like the abuser's criminal
history or the abuser being in a stepparent role - play almost no role in victim
prediction. n300

   In fact, lethality assessments generally incorporate the victim's own
assessment of risk, bolstering the effectiveness of the instrument. For example,
the first risk factor listed by De Becker, who developed MOSAIC 20, is "The
woman has intuitive feelings that she is at risk." n301 This factor is the only
one to appear in italics, adding emphasis to its importance to the assessment.
The last factor is "His wife/partner fears he will injure or kill her. She has
discussed this with others or has made plans to be carried out in the event of
her death." n302 Both factors support the importance of victim prediction in
risk assessment and incorporates victim prediction into the instrument.
Campbell's Danger Assessment also incorporates victim risk assessment into its
instrument. The eighteenth factor in the Danger Assessment is "Do you believe he
is capable of killing you?" n303 Research shows that incorporating the victim's
assessment of danger improves instrument prediction. n304

    [*251]  One study revealed that victims' perceptions of risk were better at
predicting reassault than the K-SID but that the Danger Assessment was more
accurate at predicting lethal violence than the victims themselves. n305 The
research concluded that women's perceptions of risk are a "reasonably accurate
predictor of reassault." n306 Interestingly the study found that a victim's risk
was to some extent determined by the victim's perception of the risk. Victims
who were at greatest risk of future harm were those who felt somewhat safe and
therefore did not take proactive action to seek safety, such as separating from
the abuser or safety planning. n307 Victims who felt safe, victims who felt like
they were in danger, and victims who did not know whether they were at risk were
less likely to be reassaulted because there was less risk or because precautions
were taken. n308

   It is not our purpose to opine on whether MOSAIC-20, the DVSI, or any other
instrument should be used to predict serious or lethal intimate partner violence
(nor do we have the capacity to do so), but it is fair to assume that these
efforts will become increasingly sophisticated, and the implications are
dramatic. The notion of law enforcement profiling as a preventative tool is well
established, and there is a great deal of literature on the value, or lack
thereof, of profiling. Our question is different. Even assuming that the perfect
profiling tool exists, does it affect the attorney-client relationship? Put
another way, when we talk about the attorney-client relationship, particularly
in the context of client-centered lawyering, we take for granted that the lawyer
takes direction from the competent client. Can we maintain that presumption if
we believe MOSAIC-20 is an accurate assessor and MOSAIC-20 tells us that an
abuser is about to commit one of "America's most predictable murders." n309

   Murder can be the ultimate form of control. Through the threat of murder, the
abuser leverages everything the victim has - her access to work, her children,
and the world. Prior domestic violence is the single greatest predictor of
femicide by an intimate partner. In one study, 70% of female murder victims had
been physically abused by the same intimate partner who killed them. n310
Thirty-nine percent of  [*252]  all femicides, and probably even more, are
committed by an intimate partner. n311 In another study, domestic violence
homicide victims had experienced violence within thirty days of the homicide,
some within a day or two before the homicide. n312 Without using risk or
lethality assessment tools, domestic violence attorneys know that prior domestic
violence predicts homicidal possibilities.

   Most domestic violence attorneys fear that the next news item about domestic
violence homicide will feature one of their clients. While attorneys should be
concerned about the potential for lethal violence against their clients, this
fear must be subsumed by the responsibilities we carry in our professional
capacity. Ultimately the lawyer's own worries about her role or responsibility
in the client's safety must give way to the client's interests.

   Conclusion

 We approached this article as practicing lawyers and clinical teachers, looking
at a problem that domestic violence victims and their lawyers face every day.
Given the many vagaries of the rules of professional responsibility and the
basic agency role of the lawyer, it is not surprising that our own discipline
offered little help. Does anything else matter? We think that is a fair
question.

   In writing this article, we have come full circle. The project started with a
post hoc reflection of our actions in Barbara's case. As is evident from the
paper, each question led to new questions, some of which were unexpected. All
domestic violence practitioners are conscious of the nightmare scenario inherent
in their cases, and we are no different. We are aware that Barbara's case could
have turned out differently. That is a sobering thought, and, in the clinical
context, we asked ourselves whether students should be put into the position of
being in the front lines of a case that has the potential to be so devastating.

   In the end, we came back to where we started. While we do not discount the
effect of a positive result for the client on our views, we believe strongly
that our commitment to our client included the trust in her ability and judgment
to make the decision to argue that her husband should not be incarcerated, and
that our commitment to our students included sharing the full responsibilities
of our representation. In making the latter conclusion, we are informed - and
impressed - by  [*253]  our students' views. We discussed these issues with
them, and as is evident from their g-chat, they discussed the issues with each
other. That said, we have three caveats.

   First, we and our students benefitted from a multi-disciplinary approach,
which included classes by a psychologist and social workers on the nature of
domestic violence, along with the opportunity to consult with the same
professionals on cases. We encouraged students to use these opportunities to
talk about their own concerns, and provided the opportunity to do so in
confidential settings. This is not a luxury; we think it is a critical part of
clinical work in domestic violence.

   Second, we cannot underestimate the benefit to both clients and students of
having students working on the same case for at least two semesters, with the
opportunity to continue longer, especially for the purpose of continuing with an
existing client. During our representation of Barbara, our students prepared,
filed, mediated, and litigated motions and the trial; defended an appeal;
prepared and filed a successful petition for Innocent Spouse tax relief;
negotiated forbearance on a mortgage foreclosure; negotiated forbearance and
obtained a court-ordered title transfer on an automobile; talked with
accountants, bankers, psychiatrists, social workers, victim advocates, court
mediators, and lawyers; and generally lived with the case throughout law school.
They appeared in court numerous times, before four judges, and, by the time the
graduated, were greeted warmly in the courthouse by state marshals, family
relations advisors, and court clerks. As Barbara mentioned several times, the
relationship she built with Mary and Elizabeth provided relief at times of
stress. It would have been difficult to change students every semester.

   Third, as Professor Carey has written elsewhere, n313 we continue to believe
in the need to provide holistic services, with a full range of legal services.
We believe our obligation to our client is to use our skills to try to solve her
problems, and our obligation to our students is to teach the skills necessary to
make that effort. There are cases that conclude with the granting of a
restraining order, but many cases involve other family issues as well as
collateral legal issues arising from the breakup of the relationship. If we are
truly committed to teaching best practices, we need to be willing to provide the
highest quality services. In the case of domestic violence, obtaining a
restraining order without resolving child custody, support, and other critical
family issues will inevitably leave many clients at a loss. When we limit our
representation, we start from the proposition that we are  [*254]  not intending
to resolve the client's problems. The message to students is that skills are
enough. We should be striving for higher standards.

   ******

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesCrimes Against PersonsDomestic
OffensesGeneral OverviewFamily LawFamily Protection & WelfareCohabitants &
SpousesAbuse, Endangerment & NeglectFamily LawMarital Termination & Spousal
SupportSpousal SupportGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  We use the term "restraining order" to refer to civil restraining orders -
sometimes referred to as orders of protection or protective orders. We use the
term "protective order" to refer to orders by criminal courts - sometimes called
orders of protection, protective orders, and conditions of release.





n2.  As we mentioned earlier, the previous temporary restraining order had
expired and Barbara did not want it extended. The students reminded her
frequently that we could get another restraining order, but Barbara was
consistent in her objections. At the time of this conversation, however, the
restraining order issued by the court at trial was in place.





n3.  See Pauline Quirion, Why Attorneys Should Routinely Screen Clients for
Domestic Violence, 42 Boston Bar J. 12, 13 (1998).





n4.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct R. 1.2(a) (2008).





n5.  Id. at 1.14.





n6.  See Margaret E. Johnson, Balancing Liberty, Dignity, and Safety: The Impact
of Domestic Violence Lethality Screening, 32 Cardozo L. Rev. 519, 545 (2010);
Ruth Jones, Guardianship for Coercively Controlled Battered Women: Breaking the
Control of the Abuser, 88 Geo. L.J. 605, 609-11 (2000); Leigh Goodmark, Autonomy
Feminism: An Anti-Essentialist Critique of Mandatory Interventions in Domestic
Violence Cases, 37 Fla. St. U. L. Rev. 1, 22-29 (2009); Erin L. Han, Mandatory
Arrest and No-Drop Policies: Victim Empowerment in Domestic Violence Cases, 23
B.C. Third World L.J. 159, 166-67 (2003); Prentice L. White, Stopping the
Chronic Batterer Through Legislation: Will it Work This Time? 31 Pepp. L. Rev.
709, 728 (2004); Dana Harrington Conner, To Protect or to Serve:
Confidentiality, Client Protection, and Domestic Violence, 79 Temp. L. Rev. 877,
926 (2006).





n7.  Martha R. Mahoney, Victimization or Oppression? Women's Lives, Violence,
and Agency, in The Public Nature of Private Violence 59, 78 (Martha Albertson
Fineman & Roxanne Mykitiuk eds., 1994).





n8.  The definition for capacity cross-references the definition for competence
in the Black's Law Dictionary. Black's Law Dictionary 235 (9th ed. 2009); Connie
J. A. Beck & Lynda E. Frost, Defining a Threshold for Client Competence to
Participate in Divorce Mediation, 12 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 1, 4 (2006); Paul
S. Appelbaum, Assessment of Patients' Competence to Consent to Treatment, 357 N.
Engl. J. Med. 1834 (Nov. 2007).





n9.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; Black's Law Dictionary, supra note 8, at
322. We discuss competence under the Model Rules of Professional Conduct later
in the article.





n10.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; Hugh M. Lee & Jo Alison Taylor, Alabama
Elder Law § 1:7, Ethical Considerations - Assessing Client Competence (Nov.
2012).





n11.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; see 62 Am. Jur. 3d Proof of Facts § 197
(2001) (citing McKinney's Public Health Law § 2981, subd. 1(b)); Matter of Rose
S., 293 A.D.2d 619, 741 N.Y.S.2d 84 (2d Dep't 2002); see also Wheeler v. United
States, 159 U.S. 523, 524-25 (1895) (discussing competence of children).





n12.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 4; see also Erica Wood, Addressing
Capacity: What Is the Role of the Mediator?, Mediate.com (July 2003),
http://www.mediate.com/articles/woodE1.cfm; Thomas Grisso, Evaluating
Competencies: Forensic Assessments and Instruments 2 (2d ed. 2003).





n13.  Lee & Taylor, supra note 10; Black's Law Dictionary, supra note 8, at 235.





n14.  Beck & Frost, supra note 8, at 28.





n15.  Susan S. M. Edwards, From Victim to Defendant: The Life Sentence of
British Women, 26 Case W. Res. J. Int'l L. 261, 284 (1994).





n16.  Id.





n17.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.14.





n18.  Id. at 1.2(a).





n19.  Id. at 1.2.





n20.  Id. at 1.14(a).





n21.  Id. at 1.14(b).





n22.  Jones, supra note 6, at 609.





n23.  Id. at 628.





n24.  Id.





n25.  Id. at 610, 656.





n26.  Id. at 642.





n27.  Id. at 655.





n28.  Id. at 642.





n29.  In re Conservatorship of Frarck, No. C4-92-2176, 1993 WL 139537 (Minn. Ct.
App. May 4, 1993); see Jones, supra note 6, at 641-42.





n30.  In re Conservatorship of Frarck, 1993 WL 139537 at 1.





n31.  Id.





n32.  Id. at 2.





n33.  Mahoney, supra note 7, at 73-81 (introducing the concept of exit as the
test of the level of agency for domestic violence victims).





n34.  Id. at 74.





n35.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.14(b).





n36.  Id. at 1.2(d).





n37.  In re Matter of Johnson, 597 P.2d 740, 743 (Mont. 1979).





n38.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.16(b)(2)-(3).





n39.  Id. at 1.16(b)(3).





n40.  Id. at 1.16(b)(2).





n41.  Id. at 1.16(a)(1).





n42.  Id.





n43.  Id. at 1.16(b)(1).





n44.  Id. at 1.16(b)(4).





n45.  Id.





n46.  Harrington Conner, supra note 6.





n47.  Id. at 900-11 (citing Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at
1.6(b)(1)).





n48.  Harrington Conner, supra note 6, at 937.





n49.  Neil S. Jacobson & John M. Gottman, When Men Batter Women 166 (1998).





n50.  Id. at 261.





n51. " In 2010, women who worked full time in wage and salary jobs had median
usual weekly earnings of $ 669. This represented 81 percent of men's median
weekly earnings ($ 824)." U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
Women's Earnings as a Percent of Men's in 2010 (Jan. 10, 2012),
http://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2012/ted 20120110.htm.





n52.  Id.





n53.  Frances E. Olsen, The Family and the Market: A Study of Ideology and Legal
Reform, 96 Harv. L. Rev. 1497, 1548 (1983).





n54.  Angela Hattery, Intimate Partner Violence 58, 75 (2009).





n55.  An implied-in-fact contract is "an agreement ... founded upon a meeting of
minds, which, although not embodied in an express contract, is inferred, as a
fact, from conduct of the parties showing, in the light of the surrounding
circumstances, their tacit understanding." Baltimore & O. R. Co. v. United
States, 261 U.S. 592, 597 (1923).





n56.  In Latin, quantum meruit means "what one has earned." When used in
contract law, it definition loosely translates to "reasonable value of
services."





n57.  Olsen, supra note 53, at 1539 (citing Silvia Federici, Wages Against
Housework (1974)).





n58.  The cultural norm of men hitting their intimate partners reflects a
history of women as property and society's perception of men's superiority over
women, which helps to establish a man's superiority in individual relationships.
Historically, men have been given the right to use force against intimate
partners, especially in marriage. Until the early 19th century, spousal abuse
was largely condoned. A husband "had the right to whip his wife, provided, he
used a switch no larger than his thumb." State v. Oliver, 70 N.C. 60, 60 (1874).
Retreat from state-sanctioned spousal abuse was slow; see Bradley v. State, 1
Miss. 156, 156 (1824) (holding that "the husband should still be permitted to
exercise the right of moderate chastisement, in cases of great emergency, and to
use salutary restraints in every case of misbehaviour [sic], without subjecting
himself to vexatious prosecutions, resulting in the discredit and shame of all
parties concerned."); id. at 61-62 ("If no permanent injury has been inflicted,
nor malice, cruelty nor dangerous violence shown by the husband, it is better to
draw the curtain, shut out the public gaze, and leave the parties to forget and
forgive"). The Alabama Supreme Court finally declared spousal abuse to be
contrary to law in 1871: "the privilege, ancient though it be, to beat her with
a stick, to pull her hair, choke her, spit in her face, or kick her about the
floor, or to inflict upon her like indignities is not now acknowledged by our
law." Fulgham v. State, 46 Ala. 143, 146-47 (1871). Yet reprieve for spousal
abuse is not just an historical aberration; the common law doctrine of marital
rape exemption (where a husband cannot legally rape his wife due to explicit
exemptions for marital relationships in the rape statute) is still present in
state laws across the country. While categorical rape exemptions are no longer
present, Jill Elaine Hasday notes that, even today, the marital rape can result
in lighter sentences, additional procedural hurdles for even bringing the case,
or sometimes only apply to a narrower range of crimes. Jill Elaine Hasday,
Contest and Consent: A Legal History of Marital Rape, 88 Cal. L. Rev. 1373,
1376, 1482-86 (2000).





n59.  See, e.g., David Lisak et al., Factors in the Cycle of Violence: Gender
Rigidity and Emotional Constriction, 9 J. Traumatic Stress 721 (1996); M.
Christina Santana et al., Masculine Gender Roles Associated with Increased
Sexual Risk and Intimate Partner Violence Perpetration Among Young Adult Men, 83
J. Urb. Health 575 (2006).





n60.  Ross Macmillan & Rosemary Gartner, When She Brings Home the Bacon:
Labor-Force Participation and the Risk of Spousal Violence Against Women, 61 J.
Marriage & Fam. 947, 948 (1999).





n61.  Angela Littwin, Coerced Debt: The Role of Consumer Credit in Domestic
Violence, 100 Cal. L. Rev. 1, 1-47 (2012). It is important to note that some
abusers lack financial resources. He may be unemployed or underemployed, lack
education or job skills, or be a low-income wage earner. If he is attached to
rigid gender roles, he can be particularly frustrated about failing to provide
for his family. The abuser's frustration, insecurity, or sense of failure
related to his employment status and financial stability can fuel or provide an
excuse for violence. If he is feeling a lack of control in his financial
situation, he may turn to exercising more control in his intimate relationship
through violence. Suzanne Prescott & Carolyn Letko, Battered Women: a Social
Psychological Perspective, in Battered Women: A Psychological Study of Domestic
Violence 72, 74, 89 (Maria Roy ed., 1977).





n62.  See generally Susan L. Pollet, Economic Abuse: The Unseen Side of Domestic
Violence, 83 N.Y. St. B.A. J. 40, 40-41 (2011).





n63.  Prescott & Letko, supra note 61, at 84.





n64.  Jill Davies et al., Safety Planning with Battered Women: Complex
Lives/Difficult Choices 34-35 (1998).





n65.  Id. at 35.





n66.  Id.





n67.  Robert C. Davis et al., Research Notes, Increasing Convictions in Domestic
Violence Cases: A Field Test in Milwaukee, 22 Just. Sys. J. 61, 62 (2001)
(internal citation omitted); Kimberley D. Bailey, Lost in Translation: Domestic
Violence, "The Personal is Political," and the Criminal Justice System, 100 J.
Crim. L. & Criminology 1255, 1281-82 (2010). Some scholars argue that domestic
violence victim recantation in criminal cases is a product of mandatory
prosecution policies. When prosecutors work in a hard no-drop jurisdiction, "the
battered woman's preference is irrelevant, except to the extent that she helps,
or does not help, win the prosecutor's case. In these situations, prosecutions
are pursued against the batterer by forcing the woman to testify, sometimes
leading to recantation, blurring, or rearrangement of the facts by the victim."
Linda G. Mills, Intuition and Insight: A New Job Description for the Battered
Woman's Prosecutor and Other More Modest Proposals, 7 UCLA Women's L.J. 183, 186
(1997).





n68.  Donna Coker, Crime Control and Feminist Law Reform in Domestic Violence
Law: A Critical Review, 4 Buff. Crim. L. Rev. 801, 823 (2001).





n69.  Thomas L. Kirsch II, Problems in Domestic Violence: Should Victims Be
Forced to Participate in the Prosecution of Their Abusers?, 7 Wm. & Mary J.
Women & L. 383, 387, 392 (2001).





n70.  Id. at 392.





n71.  Infra Part III.





n72.  Donald P. Schneller, Prisoners' Families: A Study of Some Social and
Psychological Effects of Incarceration on the Families of Negro Prisoners, 12
Criminology 402, 403 (1975).





n73.  Kathleen J. Ferraro & John M. Johnson, Problems of Prisoners' Families:
The Hidden Costs of Imprisonment, 4 J. Fam. Issues 575, 588 (1983); John Hagan &
Ronit Dinovitzer, Collateral Consequences of Imprisonment for Children,
Communities, and Prisoners, 26 Crime & Just. 121, 124 (1999); Joseph Murray, The
Effects of Imprisonment on Families and Children of Prisoners, in The Effects of
Imprisonment, 442, 442-44 (Alison Liebling & Shadd Maruna eds., 2013);
Schneller, supra note 72, at 410; Creasie Finney Hairston, Prisoners and
Families: Parenting Issues During Incarceration 1, 4 (2001) (working papers
prepared for the "From Prison to Home" Conference Jan. 30-31, 2002).





n74.  Hagan & Dinovitzer, supra note 73, at 124, 139.





n75.  Id. at 124-25.





n76.  Id.





n77.  Id. at 122, 138.





n78.  Deborah Epstein, Procedural Justice: Tempering the State's Response to
Domestic Violence, 43 Wm & Mary L. Rev. 1843, 1860 (2002); see also David M.
Zlotnick, Empowering the Battered Woman: The Use of Criminal Contempt Sanctions
to Enforce Civil Protection Orders, 56 Ohio St. L.J. 1153, 1194 (1995).
Individuals who violate civil restraining orders can also be penalized through
civil or criminal contempt proceedings. Id. at 1194-95.





n79.  Emily J. Sack, Battered Women and the State: The Struggle for the Future
of Domestic Violence Policy, 2004 Wis. L. Rev. 1657, 1670 (2004).





n80.  Coker, supra note 68, at 802, 806 n.5.





n81.  Cheryl Hanna, No Right to Choose: Mandated Victim Participation in
Domestic Violence Prosecutions, 109 Harv. L. Rev. 1849, 1862-63 (1996); Coker,
supra note 68, at 802, 806 n.5; Mills, supra note 67, at 185. Mandatory
prosecution policies, sometimes called "no-drop policies," are often
characterized as "hard" or "soft" no drop policies. Hanna, supra, at 1863;
Mills, supra note 67, at 185-86. Under hard policies, given sufficient evidence
the prosecutor proceeds regardless of the victim's preferences, perhaps even
compelling the victim to participate in the prosecution. Id. Under soft
policies, a prosecutor may decide to forego prosecution in certain
circumstances, and victims are not forced to participate in the prosecution. Id.





n82.  Hanna, supra note 81, at 1860.





n83.  Id.





n84.  Id. at 1852, 1865.





n85.  Linda G. Mills, Killing Her Softly: Intimate Abuse and the Violence of
State Intervention, 113 Harv. L. Rev 550, 564 (1999).





n86.  See Goodmark, supra note 6; Jessica Dayton, The Silencing of a Women's
Choice: Mandatory Arrest and No Drop Prosecution Policies in Domestic Violence
Cases, 9 Cardozo Women's L.J. 281 (2003); Mills, supra note 67.





n87.  Mills, supra note 67, at 187-88.





n88.  Id. at 185.





n89.  Id.





n90.  Id. Opponents believe that the state's indifference to the victims
themselves is "harmful, even violent." Id. at 187-88.





n91.  Mandatory intervention policies are the product of years of criminal
justice reform fueled by the domestic violence movement and feminists, with the
perceived interests of domestic violence victims driving the reform efforts.
This reform has taken place only since the late 1960s, when the battered women's
movement began launching concerted efforts.

The battered women's movement was an outsider movement, a grassroots movement
that developed from the civil rights and feminist movements of the 1960s. Many
feminists saw battering as the product of patriarchy, as male control over
women... . The movement developed shelters, safe houses, and alternative
institutions. Groups rejected governmental funding for battered women's services
and programs. Despite ambivalence about the government's role in protecting
battered women, 'engaging with the state' emerged as a principal strategy of the
battered women's movement in the early 1980s and developed over the next two
decades.

Jane C. Murphy, Engaging with the State: The Growing Reliance on Lawyers and
Judges to Protect Battered Women, 11 Am. U. J. Gender Soc. Pol'y & L. 499,
500-01 (2003).





n92.  Hanna, supra note 81, at 1858.





n93.  Id. at 1859.





n94.  Id.





n95.  See, e.g., Henley v. Iowa Dist. Court for Emmet Cnty., 533 N.W.2d 199
(Iowa 1995). But cf. N. Olmsted v. Bullington, 744 N.E.2d 1225 (Ohio Ct. App.
2000); State v. Lucas, 100 Ohio St. 3d 1, 795 N.E.2d 642 (Ohio 2003); see
generally Marya Kathryn Lucas, An Invitation to Liability?: Attempts at Holding
Victims of Domestic Violence Liable as Accomplices When They Invite Violations
of Their Own Protective Orders, 5 Geo. J. Gender & L. 763, 774-78 (2004).





n96.  Francis X. Clines, Judge's Domestic Violence Ruling Creates an Outcry in
Kentucky, N.Y. Times, Jan. 8, 2002,
http://www.nytimes.com/2002/01/08/us/judge-s-domestic-violence-ruling-creates-an
-outcry-in-kentucky.html.





n97.  Id.





n98.  Stephanie Simon, Judges Push for Abused to Follow the Law, L.A. Times,
Jan. 22, 2002, http://articles.latimes.com/2002/jan/22/news/mn-24141.





n99.  See Kirsch, supra note 69, at 402-06.





n100.  591 S.E.2d 863 (N.C. 2004).





n101.  Id. at 865.





n102.  905 S.W.2d 313 (Tex. Ct. App. 1995).





n103.  Id.





n104.  Id.





n105.  For a discussion of the reasons victims recant, see Njeri Mathis
Rutledge, Turning a Blind Eye: Perjury in Domestic Violence Cases, 39 N.M. L.
Rev. 149, 163-75 (2009). Professor Rutledge advocates that some victims should
be prosecuted for perjury. Id. at 182-94.





n106.  No. 82170, 2003 WL 22971050, at 1 (Ohio Ct. App., Dec. 18, 2003).





n107.  Id. at 2.





n108.  No. C-030459, 2004 WL 596103, at 1 (Ohio Ct. App., March 26, 2004).





n109.  Id. at 2.





n110.  Eve S. Buzawa & Carl G. Buzawa, Domestic Violence: The Criminal Justice
Response 87 (1996) (internal citations omitted). But see Karin V. Rhodes et al.,
Victim Participation in Intimate Partner Violence Prosecution: Implications for
Safety, U.S. Department of Justice, 11 (2011) (finding that victims have a
strong preference for mandatory prosecution with or without the victim's
participation).





n111.  Buzawa & Buzawa, supra note 110, at 87.





n112.  Id.





n113.  Maureen McLeod, Research Note, Victim Noncooperation in the Prosecution
of Domestic Assault, 21 Criminology 395, 400 (1983).





n114.  Jennifer L. Hartman & Joanne Belknap, Beyond the Gatekeepers: Court
Professionals' Self-Reported Attitudes About and Experiences with Misdemeanor
Domestic Violence Cases, 30 Crim. Justice & Behav. 349, 361 (2003).





n115.  Id.





n116.  Douglas E. Beloof & Joel Shapiro, Let the Truth be Told: Proposed Hearsay
Exceptions to Admit Domestic Violence Victims' Out of Court Statements as
Substantive Evidence, 11 Colum. J. Gender & L. 1, 3 (2002); see Audrey Rogers,
Prosecutorial Use of Expert Testimony in Domestic Violence Cases: From
Recantation to Refusal to Testify, 8 Colum. J. Gender & L. 67, 78-83, 87-91
(1998); Jennifer Gentile Long, Explaining Counterintuitive Victim Behavior in
Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Cases, 1.4 The Voice 2-3 (2006).





n117.  McLeod, supra note 113, at 400 (citing U.S. Department of Justice,
Intimate Victims: A Study of Violence Among Friends and Relatives (1980)).





n118.  Id. (citing Lenore Walker, Battered Women (1979)).





n119.  McLeod, supra note 113, at 405.





n120.  Jeffrey Fagan, The Criminalization of Domestic Violence: Promises and
Limits 24 (1996) (describing civil restraining orders as "the primary source of
legal sanction and protection for battered women"); Carolyn N. Ko, Note, Civil
Restraining Orders for Domestic Violence: The Unresolved Question of "Efficacy,"
11 S. Cal. Interdisc. L. J. 361, 376 (2002) (describing civil restraining orders
as the "most attractive" remedy for domestic violence victims).





n121.  Law enforcement does not always enforce protection orders. In 1984,
Tracey Thurman was awarded $ 2.9 million after suing the Torrington, Connecticut
Police Department and twenty-four city police officers on the grounds that the
city's policy and practice of nonintervention and nonarrest [sic] in domestic
violence cases was unconstitutional on Fourteenth Amendment Equal Protection
grounds. Thurman v. City of Torrington, 595 F. Supp. 1521, 1524 (D. Conn. 1984).





n122.  Bailey, supra note 67, at 1281-82.





n123.  Deborah Weissman, The Personal is Political-and Economic: Rethinking
Domestic Violence, 2007 BYU L. Rev. 387, 402 (2007).





n124.  Hartman & Belknap, supra note 114, at 363.





n125.  Id.





n126.  Buzawa & Buzawa, supra note 110, at 51, 53.





n127.  Id. at 45.





n128.  Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 48.





n129.  Buzawa & Buzawa, supra note 110, at 45.





n130.  Id.





n131.  Kimberle Crenshaw, Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity
Politics, and Violence Against Women of Color, 43 Stan. L. Rev. 1241, 1257
(1991).





n132.  Id.





n133.  Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 7-8.





n134.  See David Island & Patrick Letellier, Men Who Beat the Men Who Love Them:
Battered Gay Men and Domestic Violence (1991); Ruthann Robson, Lavender Bruises:
Intra-Lesbian Violence, Law and Lesbian Legal Theory, 20 Golden Gate U. L. Rev.
567 (1990).





n135.  Kirsch, supra note 69, at 393-96; see Laura Dugan et al., Do Domestic
Violence Services Save Lives?, 250 Nat'l Inst. of Just. J. 20, 24 (2003)
(finding an increase of femicide of married white and unmarried black women and
an increase in victimization of unmarried white women when a prosecutor pursued
protective order violations). But cf. Jacquelyn C. Campbell et al., Risk Factors
for Femicide in Abusive Relationships: Results From a Multisite Case Control
Study, 93 Am. J. Pub. Health 1089, 1092 (2003) (finding that domestic violence
arrests decrease the risk for femicide).





n136.  Martha R. Mahoney, Legal Images of Battered Women: Redefining the Issue
of Separation, 90 Mich. L. Rev. 1, 20 (1991); Mary Ann Dutton, The Dynamics of
Domestic Violence: Understanding the Response from Battered Women, 68 Fla. B.J.
24 (1994) (quoting Mahoney, supra at 94); Campbell et al., supra note 135, at
1092.





n137.  Mahoney, supra note 7, at 6.





n138.  Id. at 79.





n139.  George W. Bernard et al., Till Death Do Us Part: A Study of Spouse
Murder, 10 Bull. Am. Acad. Psychiatry & L. 271, 274 (1982). In fact, a victim's
chances of being killed by her intimate partner increases by a factor of four
when the worst incident of abuse in the relationship was triggered by a prior
attempt by the victim to leave the relationship. The odds of being murdered
increase by a factor of five when the worst incident was triggered by an attempt
to leave the abuser for another partner or by the abuser's jealousy. Campbell et
al., supra note 135, at 1092.





n140.  Carolyn Rebecca Block, Risk Factors for Death or Life-Threatening Injury
for Abused Women in Chicago, U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of
Justice, II-4-6, NCJ 199732 (2004).





n141.  Id. at 65-93.





n142.  Mahoney, supra note 7, at 73-74.





n143.  Jennice Vilhauer, Understanding the Victim: A Guide to Aid in the
Prosecution of Domestic Violence, 27 Fordham Urb. L. J. 953, 958 (1999). But cf.
Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 10 (finding that there is not an increase in
victims' visit to the emergency department during or after prosecution).





n144.  See Edna Erez & Carolyn Copps Hartley, Battered Immigrant Women and the
Legal System: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Perspective, 4 W. Criminology Rev. 155
(2003).





n145.  Yvonne Amanor-Boadu et al., Immigrant and Nonimmigrant Women: Factors
that Predict Leaving an Abusive Relationship, 18 Violence Against Women 611, 613
(2012) (internal citations omitted).





n146.  Erez & Copps Hartley, supra note 144, at 159-60.





n147.  Amanor-Boadu et al., supra note 145, at 642.





n148.  Nawal H. Ammar et al., Calls to Police and Police Response: A Case Study
of Latina Immigrant Women in the USA, 7 Int'l J. Police Science & Mgmt 230, 236
(2005); Leslye E. Orloff et al., Battered Immigrant Women's Willingness to Call
for Help and Police Response, 13 UCLA Women's L.J. 43, 60 (2003).





n149.  8 U.S.C. § 1227(a)(2)(E) (1952, as amended through 2008).





n150.  Orloff et al., supra note 148, at 69-70.





n151.  But cf. Orloff et al., supra note 148, at 69-70 (finding that the
immigration status of an abuser is not a factor in a victim's decision about
whether to contact the police).





n152.  Orloff et al., supra note 148, at 67-68; 8 U.S.C. § 1227(a)(2)(E) (1952,
as amended through 2008). When an undocumented victim reports her abuse, she may
be informing the authorities that she does not have valid immigration status -
and then chances removal. A victim of domestic violence might be able to seek a
non-immigrant visa commonly referred to as the U Visa, under 8 U.S.C. §
1101(a)(15)(U) (1952, as amended through 2013). This status requires that the
victim prove that she suffered "severe or substantial physical or mental abuse,"
that she "possesses information concerning criminal activity," and that she is
"likely to be helpful to ... authorities investigating or prosecuting criminal
activity." Id. Issuance of U Visa certifications by law enforcement can vary
widely from precinct to precinct. Joey Hipolito, Illegal Aliens or Deserving
Victims?: The Ambivalent Implementation of the U Visa Program, 17 Asian Am. L.J.
153, 163-64 (2010).





n153.  Elizabeth M. W. Trefonas, Access to Justice for Immigrants in Wyoming, 34
Wyo. Law. 24, 25-27 (2011).





n154.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 13-1509 (2010). Commonly referred to as the
"Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act" or SB 1070, which
refers to the bill version of the law as presented to the Arizona State Senate.





n155.  For example, in League of United Latin American Citizens v. Wilson, 908
F.Supp. 755 (C.D. Cal. 1995), on reconsideration in part, 997 F.Supp. 1244 (C.D.
Cal. 1997), the court ruled that a measure requiring law enforcement agencies to
verify the immigration status of every arrestee who they suspected of being in
the United States unlawfully was entirely preempted by federal law, which does
not require investigation into immigration status.





n156.  Mills, supra note 85, at 598; Rhodes et al., supra note 110, at 50.





n157.  Jacobson & Gottman, supra note 49, at 166.





n158.  Id.





n159.  Hattery, supra note 54, at 53, 75 ("Many affluent battered women do not
leave their abusive partners for the same reasons middle-class or poor women do
not: because they love their partners, and because they believe they will
change.").





n160.  Kirsch, supra note 69, at 397.





n161.  Laurie Shanks, Whose Story is it, Anyway? - Guiding Students to
Client-Centered Interviewing Through Storytelling, 14 Clinical L. Rev. 509
(2008); Katherine R. Kruse, Fortress in the Sand: The Plural Values of
Client-Centered Representation, 12 Clinical L. Rev. 369, 369 (2006).





n162.  One foundation of a meaningful lawyer-client relationship that should be
taught to students is empathy for the client's dilemma. See Laurel E. Fletcher &
Harvey M. Weinstein, When Students Lose Perspective: Clinical Supervision and
the Management of Empathy, 9 Clinical L. Rev. 135 (2002).





n163.  See Gary Bellow & Bea Moulton, The Lawyering Process: Materials for
Clinical Instruction in Advocacy (1978); David A. Binder & Susan C. Price, Legal
Interviewing and Counseling: A Client-Centered Approach (1977); see also David
A. Binder et al., Lawyers as Counselors: A Client-Centered Approach (1991).





n164.  Jason K. Cohen, Know Your Client: Maximizing Advocacy by Incorporating
Client-Centered Principles into Legal Writing Rhetoric Practice, 1 Charlotte L.
Rev. 253, 263 (2009) (citing Alex J. Hurder, The Lawyer's Dilemma: To Be or Not
to Be a Problem-Solving Negotiator, 14 Clinical L. Rev. 253, 286 (2007)).





n165.  Kruse, supra note 161, at 377.





n166.  Robert M. Bastress, Client Centered Counseling and Moral Accountability
for Lawyers, 10 J. Legal Prof. 97, 98 (1985) (emphasis added).





n167.  Cohen, supra note 164, at 262.





n168.  Bastress, supra note 166, at 97.





n169.  Id. at 100.





n170.  Id.





n171.  Id.





n172.  Much scholarship on this issue refers to the client-centered lawyering
model as "client-centered counseling." See, e.g., Cohen, supra note 164; Robert
D. Dinerstein, Client-Centered Counseling: Reappraisal and Refinement, 32 Ariz.
L. Rev. 501 (1990).





n173.  Bastress, supra note 166, at 101.





n174.  Kruse, supra note 161, at 372.





n175.  Deborah J. Cantrell, What's Love Got to Do with It?: Contemporary Lessons
on Lawyerly Advocacy from the Preacher Martin Luther King, Jr., 22 St. Thomas L.
Rev. 296, 304 (2010) (ensuring that the client "retains her autonomy and freedom
of thought," and "the lawyer truly remains the agent of the client/principal").





n176.  Alex J. Hurder, Negotiating the Lawyer-Client Relationship: A Search for
Equality and Collaboration, 44 Buff. L. Rev. 71, 76 (1996).





n177.  Binny Miller, Give Them Back Their Lives: Recognizing Client Narrative in
Case Theory, 93 Mich. L. Rev. 485, 511-12 (1994).





n178.  Binder et al., supra note 163, at 270.





n179.  Jane K. Stoever, Transforming Domestic Violence Representation, 101 Ky.
L.J. 483, 488 (2013).





n180.  Susan Bryant & Maria Arias, Case Study A Battered Women's Rights Clinic:
Designing a Clinical Program Which Encourages a Problem-Solving Vision of
Lawyering that Empowers Clients and Community, 42 Wash. U.J. Urb. & Contemp. L.
207 (1992).





n181.  Id. at 217.





n182.  Id. at 219-20.





n183.  Id. at 220.





n184.  Id.





n185.  Michelle S. Jacobs, People from the Footnotes: The Missing Element in
Client-Centered Counseling, 27 Golden Gate U. L. Rev. 345, 346 (1997).





n186.  Id. at 348.





n187.  Id. at 377.





n188.  Id. at 404.





n189.  Austin Sarat & Stuart Scheingold, Cause Lawyering and the Reproduction of
Professional Authority, in Cause Lawyering: Political Commitments and
Professional Responsibilities 5 (Austin Sarat & Stuart Scheingold eds., 1998).





n190.  John O. Calmore, A Call to Context: The Professional Challenges of Cause
Lawyering at the Intersection of Race, Space, and Poverty, 67 Fordham L. Rev.
1927 (1999) (citing Carrie Menkel-Meadow, The Causes of Cause Lawyering: Toward
an Understanding of the Motivation and Commitment of Social Justice Lawyers, in
Cause Lawyering: Political Commitments and Professional Responsibilities 31, 37
(1998)).





n191.  Stuart Scheingold, The Struggle to Politicize Legal Practice: A Case
Study of Left-Activist Lawyering in Seattle, in Cause Lawyering, supra note 189,
at 118.





n192.  Id.





n193.  Richard Abel, Speaking Law to Power: Occasions for Cause Lawyering, in
Cause Lawyering: Political Commitments and Professional Responsibilities 69
(1998).





n194.  Thomas M. Hilbink, You Know the Type: Categories of Cause Lawyering, 29
Law & Social Inquiry 657, 659 (2004).





n195.  Ann Southworth, Lawyers of the Right: Professionalizing the Conservative
Coalition (2008).





n196.  Karen Czapanskiy, Domestic Violence, the Family, and the Lawyering
Process: Lessons from Studies on Gender Bias in the Courts, 27 Fam. L.Q. 247,
258-59 (1993).





n197.  See, e.g., Holly Maguigan, Battered Women and Self-Defense: Myths and
Misconceptions in Current Reform Proposals, 140 U. Pa. L. Rev. 379 (1991).





n198.  Czapanskiy, supra note 196, at 258-59.





n199.  Id.





n200.  See, e.g., Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) of 1994 (codified in part as
amended at 42 U.S.C.§§13925-14045 (2000, 2005, 2013)). For state resources, see
generally, National Center for State Courts,
www.ncsc.org/Topics/Children-Families-and-Elders/Domestic-Violence/Resource-Guid
e.aspx.





n201.  42 U.S.C.§§13925-14045.





n202.  Epstein, supra note 78, at 1845.





n203.  Id. at 1847-48.





n204.  Donna Wills, Domestic Violence: The Case for Aggressive Prosecution, 7
UCLA Women's L. J. 173, 173 (1997).





n205.  Id. at 175.





n206.  Id. at 180.





n207.  Id.





n208.  Betsy Tsai, The Trend Toward Specialized Domestic Violence Courts:
Improvements on an Effective Innovation, 68 Fordham L. Rev. 1285, 1287 (2000).





n209.  Id. at 1294-95.





n210.  Id.





n211.  Id. at 1298-00.





n212.  Id. at 1306.





n213.  Pennsylvania v. Kallinger, 580 A.2d 887 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 1990).





n214.  See, e.g., Matter of McCauley, 565 N.E.2d 411 (Mass. 1991); State v.
Perricone, 37 N.J. 463, 181 A.2d 751 (N.J. 1962).





n215.  State v. Ross, 849 A.2d 648, 665 (Conn. 2004).





n216.  Id.





n217.  Application to Justice Ginsburg to Vacate Stay of Execution of Michael
Ross, Lantz v. Ross, 543 U.S. 1134 (2005), available at
http://www.ct.gov/csao/lib/csao/app to vacate stay of execution 04a656.pdf;
Rebecca Leung, A Decision to Die, CBS News 60 Minutes (Jan. 26, 2005) (reporting
on Charlie Rose broadcast of Jan. 26, 2005), http://www.cbsnews. com/2100-500164
162-669530.html.





n218.  Lynne Tuohy, Defenders Ordered Out of Ross Case, Courant (Dec. 16, 2004),
http://articles.courant.com/2004-12-16/news/0412160987 1
defenders-clifford-second-penalty-hearing.





n219.  Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 4, at 1.9(1).





n220.  Id. at 1.9(2).





n221.  Tuohy, supra note 218.





n222.  Michael P. Ross, Why I Choose Death Rather than to Fight for Life,
Monster? You Decide, http://www.wild-side.com/ross.html (last visited Feb. 16,
2014).





n223.  Leung, supra note 217.





n224.  Ross v. Rell, No. 3:05-CV-130 (PCD) (D. Conn. 2005) (Temporary
restraining order), available at http://scholar.google.com/scholar
case?case=8836018988286999632&q= ross+v.+rell&hl=en&as sdt=6,32.





n225.  Id.





n226.  Id.





n227.  Leung, supra note 217.





n228.  In re Charges of Judicial Misconduct, 465 F.3d 532, 544 (2d Cir. 2006).





n229.  Id.





n230.  Id.





n231.  Id.





n232.  Memorandum of Decision, State v. Michael Ross, No. CR84-20300, 20355,
20356 (Conn. Super. Ct., Apr. 22, 2005), available at
http://www.ct.gov/csao/cwp/view.asp?A=18 01&Q=292090.





n233.  William Yardley & Stacey Stowe, Connecticut Carries Out Its First
Execution in 45 Years, N.Y. Times, May 13, 2005,
http://www.nytimes.com/2005/05/13/nyregion/13cnd-death.html?pagewanted=all.





n234.  State v. Martini, 677 A.2d 1106 (N.J. 1996), overruled by State v.
Reddish, 859 A.2d 1173 (N.J. 2004).





n235.  Id. at 1112.





n236.  Id.





n237.  Id.





n238.  Maria Newman, Death Row Inmate Instructs Lawyers to Fight for His Life,
N.Y. Times, Aug. 17, 1999,
www.nytimes.com/1999/08/17/nyregion/death-row-inmate-instructs-lawyers-to-fight-
for-his-life.html?ref=johnmartini.





n239.  Barbara Boyer, A Defiant Murderer Dies at 79: John Martini, Condemned to
Death in 1990 for Killing a Fair Lawn Man, Died in His Jail Cell. He Killed at
Least Three Others, Philly.com (Sept. 11, 2009),
http://articles.philly.com/2009-09-11/news/25268088 1
death-penalty-irving-flax-favor-of-capital-punishment.





n240.  The Associated Press, Newark: Court Upholds Death Sentence, N.Y. Times,
July 26, 2006,
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/07/26/nyregion/26mbrfs-008.html?ref=johnmartini;
Boyer, supra note 239.





n241.  Katherine Santiago, Death of Killer John Martini Brings Victim's Widow
Small Comfort, The Star-Ledger (Sept. 10, 2009),
http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2009/09/death of nj convicted murderer.html





n242.  N. Olmsted v. Bullington, 744 N.E.2d 1225, 1228 (Ohio Ct. App. 2000); see
also Bays v. Bays, 779 So.2d 754, 758 (La. 2001).





n243.  Carolyn Ham, Injustice Defined: Why Battered Women Cannot and Should Not
be Charged With Violating Civil Protection Orders That Were Issued at Their
Request, Battered Women's Project 6 (2003).





n244.  Id. at 5.





n245.  G.W. Allport, Personality - A Psychological Interpretation 286 (1937).





n246.  Walter Mischel, Personality and Assessment 6 (1968); Miguel A. Mendez,
Character Evidence Reconsidered: 'People Do Not Seem to be Predictable
Characters,' 49 Hastings L.J. 871 (1998).





n247.  Mendez, supra note 246.





n248.  Id.; Mischel, supra note 246.





n249.  Mischel, supra note 246.





n250.  Walter Mischel & Yuichi Shoda, A Cognitive-Affective System of
Personality: Reconceptualizing Situations, Dispositions, Dynamics, and
Invariance in Personality Structure, 102 Psychol. Rev. 246 (1995).





n251.  Edward J. Imwinkelried, Reshaping the "Grotesque" Doctrine of Character
Evidence: The Reform Implications of the Most Recent Psychological Research, 36
Sw. U. L. Rev. 741, 754-55, 768 (2008).





n252.  Fed. R. Evid. 413.





n253.  Id. at 414.





n254.  Id. at 415.





n255.  Katharine K. Baker, Once a Rapist? Motivational Evidence and Relevancy in
Rape Law, 110 Harv. L. Rev. 563 (1997).





n256.  Patrick A. Langan & David J. Levin, Bureau of Justice Statistics,
Recidivism of Prisoners Released in 1994 (June 2003),
http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/rpr94.pdf.





n257.  Cal. Evid. Code § 1109 (West 2006); 725 Ill. Comp. Stat. Ann. 5
/115-10.2a (West 2013).





n258.  Philip K. Dick, The Minority Report (1956) (first published in Fantastic
Universe and has been republished since in several anthologies of Philip Dick's
work).





n259.  Directed by Steven Spielberg as a joint venture between DreamWorks,
Amblin Entertainment, and 20th Century Fox (2002).





N260.  Heather Kelly, Police Embracing Tech that Predicts Crimes, CNN Tech,
(4:59pm EDT, July 9, 2012),
http://www.cnn.com/2012/07/09/tech/innovation/police-tech/.





n261.  Greg Risling, Sci-fi Policing: Predicting Crime Before it Occurs, Yahoo!
News, (12:14pm, July 1, 2012),
http://news.yahoo.com/sci-fi-policing-predicting-crime-occurs-150157831.html.





n262.  Bob Orr, LAPD Computer Program Prevents Crime by Predicting It, CBS
Evening News, (8:40pm, Apr. 11, 2012),
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lapd-computer-program-pre
vents-crime-by-predicting-it/.





n263.  U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Future Attribute Screening
Technology (FAST)/Passive Methods for Precision Behavioral Screening 2,
available at http://www.dhs.gov/xlibrary/assets/privacy/privacy pia st
fast-a.pdf.





n264.  Declan McCullagh, Homeland Security Moves Forward with "Pre-Crime"
Detection, CNET (4:00am PDT, Oct. 7, 2011), www.news.cnet.com/8301-31921
3-20117058-281/home land-security.





n265.  Home of the Duluth Model, http://www.theduluthmodel.org/training/wheels
.html.





n266.  Id.





n267.  Id.





n268.  Jacquelyn Campbell et al., The Danger Assessment: Validation of Lethality
Risk Assessment Instrument for Intimate Partner Femicide, 24 J. Interpers.
Violence 653, 657, 661-62 (2009); Lisa A. Goodman et al., Predicting Repeat
Abuse Among Arrested Batterers: Use of the Danger Assessment Scale in the
Criminal Justice System, 15 J. Interpers. Violence 63, 65 (2000).





n269.  Danger Assessment, www.dangerassessment.com (last visited Mar. 2, 2014).





n270.  See, e.g., Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence, Lethality
Assessment Program for First Responders, available at
http://www.bwjp.org/files/bwjp/files/MD LAP Packetwebsite.pdf. For an in-depth
exploration of when the Danger Assessment may be admissible in court or useful
to attorneys, see Amanda Hitt & Lynn McLain, Stop the Killing: Potential
Courtroom Use of a Questionnaire that Predicts the Likelihood that a Victim of
Intimate Partner Violence Will Be Murdered By Her Partner, 24 Wis. J. L. Gender,
& Soc'y 277 (2009).





n271.  De Becker's web site included endorsements from several public officials,
including Dennis Chapas. Tracy Johnson, Software Assesses Likelihood of Crime,
L.A. Times, Oct. 21, 1996 (quoting Dennis Chapas, a former Supreme Court
security official), http://articles.latimes.com/1996-10-21/local/me-56247 1
domestic-violence.





n272.  Gavin de Becker, The Gift of Fear 201 (1997).





n273.  Id.





n274.  Id.; see also, e.g., Oprah,
http://www.oprah.com/relationships/Trusting-Your-Intuition-Could-Save-Your-Life
(last visited Feb. 27, 2014) (episode aired Jan. 29, 2008); Gavin De Becker &
Associates, http://gavindebecker.com/who we are/what others say (last visited
Feb. 27, 2014).





n275.  De Becker, supra note 272.





n276.  Gavin de Becker & Associates, http://gavindebecker.com/.





n277.  See, e.g., Gavin de Becker et al., Just 2 Seconds (2008); Gavin de
Becker, Fear Less: Real Truth About Risk, Safety, and Security in a Time of
Terrorism (2002); Protecting the Gift: Keeping Children and Teenagers Safe (and
Parents Sane) (2002); De Becker, supra note 272.





n278.  Oprah, MOSAIC: The Tool that Could Save Your Life,
http://www.oprah.com/oprahshow/MOSAIC-Gavin-de-Beckers-Online-Threat-Assessment-
Tool (last visited Feb. 27, 2014).





n279.  Janice E. Roehl et al., Intimate Partner Violence Risk Assessment
Validation Study, Final Report (Mar. 28, 2005) (unpublished research report),
available at http://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/209731.pdf.





n280.  Id.





n281.  Spousal Assault Risk Assessment (SARA),
http://www.biscmi.org/documents/Spousal Assault Risk Assessment.pdf (last
visited Mar. 2, 2014); P. Randall Kropp & Stephen D. Hart, The Spousal Risk
Assessment (SARA) Guide: Reliability and Validity in Adult Male Offenders, in
Risk Reduction: Interventions for Special Needs Offenders (Harry E. Allen, ed.
2002).





n282.  See N. Zoe Hilton et al., A Brief Actuarial Assessment for the Prediction
of Wife Assault Recidivism: The Ontario Domestic Assault Risk Assessment, 16
Psychological Assessment 267 (2004).





n283.  Jan Roehl & Kristin Guertin, Intimate Partner Violence: The Current Use
of Risk Assessments in Sentencing Offenders, 21 Just. Sys. J. 171, 179, 181
(2000); see also Harrington Conner, supra note 6, at 920.





n284.  Harrington Conner, supra note 6, at 920.





n285.  Id.





n286.  See Kirk R. Williams & Stephen R. Grant, Empirically Examining the Risk
of Intimate Partner Violence: The Revised Domestic Violence Screening Instrument
(DVSI-R), 121 Pub. Health Rep. 400 (2006).





n287.  National Institute of Justice, Crime, Violence & Victimization Research
Division's Compendium of Research on Violence Against Women 1993-2011, at 2B
(2012); Jill Theresa Messing et al., Collaborating With Police Departments:
Recruitment in the Oklahoma Lethality Assessment (Ok-LA) Study, 17 Violence
Against Women 163 (2011).





n288.  National Institute of Justice, supra note 288; Messing et al., supra note
288.





n289.  Jennifer K. Connor-Smith et al., Risk Assessments by Female Victims of
Intimate Partner Violence: Predictors of Risk Perceptions and Comparison to an
Actuarial Measure, 26 J. Interpers. Violence 2517, 2519 (2011).





n290.  Tricia H. Witte & Rachel Kendra, Risk Recognition and Intimate Partner
Violence, 25 J. Interpers. Violence 2199, 2212 (2010).





n291.  Id. (emphasis in original).





n292.  Arlene N. Weisz et al., Assessing the Risk of Severe Domestic Violence:
The Importance of Survivors' Predictions, 15 J. Interpers. Violence 75, 81
(2000); Davies et al. supra note 64 at 2.





n293.  Elizabeth M. Schneider, Describing and Changing: Women's Self-Defense
Work and the Problem of Expert Testimony on Battering, 14 Women's Rts. L. Rep.
213, 240 (1992); Jones, supra note 6, at 627.





n294.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200.





n295.  Id. at 2201.





n296.  Jacqueline Campbell et al., Assessing Risk Factors for Intimate Partner
Homicide, 250 Nat'l Inst. Just. J. 14 (2003).





n297.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200 (internal citations omitted).





n298.  Connor-Smith et al., supra note 289, at 2531.





n299.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200 (internal citations omitted).





n300.  Connor-Smith et al., supra note 289, at 2543, 2531.





n301.  De Becker, supra note 273, at 183.





n302.  Id. at 185.





n303.  Danger Assessment, http://www.dangerassessment.org (last visited Mar. 2,
2014).





n304.  Witte & Kendra, supra note 290, at 2200; Weisz et al., supra note 292, at
86; D. Alex Heckert & Edward W. Gondolf, Battered Women's Perceptions of Risk
Versus Risk Factors and Instruments in Predicting Repeat Reassault, 19 J.
Interpers. Violence 778, 797 (2004).





n305.  Heckert & Gondolf, supra note 305, at 796-97.





n306.  Id. at 796.





n307.  Id. at 797.





n308.  Id.





n309.  De Becker, supra note 272, at 185.





n310.  Campbell et al., supra note 135, at 1091. Of female homicide victims ages
18 to 50, 79% were murdered by an intimate partner who committed prior domestic
violence against them. Id.





n311.  Shannan Catalano, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Intimate Partner
Violence: Attributes of Victimization, 1993-2001, Special Report, 3 (Nov. 2013).
Twenty-four percent of femicides are committed by an unknown perpetrator. Id.
Almost certainly some of these "unknown" assailants include domestic violence
perpetrators.





n312.  Block, supra note 140, at II-4-5.





n313.  Camille Carey, Correcting Myopia in Domestic Violence Advocacy: Moving
Forward in Lawyering and Law School Clinics, 21 Colum. J. Gender & L. 220
(2011).


                               16 of 22 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2014 George Mason Law Review
                            George Mason Law Review

                                  Winter, 2014

                            George Mason Law Review

                           21 Geo. Mason L. Rev. 409

LENGTH: 32737 words

ARTICLE: ANONYMITY, FACEPRINTS, AND THE CONSTITUTION

NAME: Kimberly N. Brown*

BIO: * Associate Professor of Law, University of Baltimore School of Law. B.A.,
Cornell; J.D., University of Michigan. Thanks to Garrett Epps, Michele Gilman,
Steve Grossman, Dave Jaros, Dionne Koller, C.J. Peters, and Colin Starger for
comments on prior versions of this Article, and to Jillian Bokey, Andrew
Geraghty, and Ben Bor for research assistance.

TEXT:
 [*409]

    Introduction

    Rapid technological advancement has dramatically expanded the warrantless
powers of government to obtain information about individual citizens directly
from the private domain. Biometrics technology n1 --such as voice recognition,
hand measurement, iris and retinal imaging, and facial recognition technology
("FRT")--offers enormous potential for law enforcement and national security.
But it comes at a cost. Although much of the American public is complacent with
government monitoring for security reasons, n2 people also expect to go about
daily life in relative obscurity--unidentifiable to others they do not already
know, do not care to know, or are not required to know--so long as they abide by
the law. The reality is quite different. The government and the private sector
have the capacity for surveillance of nearly everyone in America. As one
commentator puts it, "soon there really will be nowhere to run and nowhere to
hide, short of living in a cave, far removed from technology." n3

    FRT is a major contributor to the spectre of an Orwellian society. n4
Facebook uses it to identify "friends" from uploaded photos, which are
permanently affixed in cyberspace n5 and accessible to the government. n6
Federal  [*410]  and state authorities have their own databases of images
collected from drivers' licenses, public surveillance cameras, unmanned aerial
drones, and tiny recording devices attached to police uniforms. n7 Currently,
the FBI is working on a $ 1 billion effort to expand its fingerprint
identification system to cross-reference FRT and other biometric data against a
vast data repository that includes some 13 million criminal mug shot photos. n8
With FRT, a federal agent or corporate marketer can convert any number of these
facial images into algorithms, associate them with countless other bits of
personal data accumulating throughout the global information network, and track
the most intimate details of an unsuspecting person's daily life.

    There is no recognized constitutional theory for placing boundaries on the
government's ability to engage in ubiquitous monitoring of citizens based on
images snapped in public or posted online. The Supreme Court has made clear that
the Fourth Amendment does not protect "what a person knowingly exposes to the
public." n9 Nor does it cover information revealed to third parties. n10 Thus,
although corporations and individual citizens generate the largest storehouses
of personal data today, the government--through its subpoena powers, contractual
agreements, and public access to online data--can effectively bootstrap private
information into its own domain without contending with the Constitution.

    As a consequence, technology has minimized the Constitution's importance as
a mechanism for protecting against arbitrary government tracking of one's
movements, habits, relationships, interests, and thoughts. This Article attempts
to reassert the Constitution's relevance when it comes to surveillance through
FRT and related technologies in two ways. First, it argues for recognition of
anonymity as a constitutional value that is both implicit in the Court's Fourth
Amendment jurisprudence and explicit in its First Amendment jurisprudence.
Second, it suggests that a shift in technology's intersection with data--from
analysis of static bits of information in the pre-digital age to a "growing
respect for correlations" among data in the digital age--warrants a fresh look
at Fourth Amendment doctrine that ex  [*411]  cuses surveillance based on
information obtained in public or from third parties. n11 FRT allows users to
correlate numerical faceprint algorithms with other data points to create new
information relating to an individual's past, present, and future life. n12
Constitutional law must account for this modern capacity to manipulate data for
predictive intelligence. To this end, the Article derives doctrinal guidelines
for grappling with technology's threat to the constitutional value of anonymity
from a reconciliation of the Fourth and First Amendment law bearing on the
issue.

    Part I defines anonymity and explains that respect for the capacity to
remain physically and psychologically unknown to the government traces back to
the Founding. With the advent and expansion of new technologies such as FRT, the
ability to remain anonymous has eroded, leading to a litany of possible harms.

    Part II reviews the existing Fourth and First Amendment doctrine that is
available to stave off ubiquitous government surveillance and identifies
anonymity as a constitutional value that warrants more explicit doctrinal
protection. Although the Fourth Amendment has been construed to excise
surveillance of public and third-party information from its scope, the Court's
recent jurisprudence indicates a growing recognition that constitutional
doctrine is out of step with modern surveillance technologies. The Supreme Court
has expressly recognized a First Amendment right to anonymous speech, which
should be taken into account in assessing the constitutionality of government
surveillance systems under the Fourth Amendment. This Part accordingly draws a
distinction between cases that arose in the pre-digital age, in which content
was often collected through physical trespass or eavesdropping, and those
arising in the digital age, in which correlations among disparate points of "big
data" are used to make predictions.

    Part III argues that Fourth and First Amendment doctrine should be
reconciled to address the manipulation--versus acquisition--of FRT data to
derive new information about individuals which is exceedingly intimate and
otherwise out of the government's reach. This Part suggests that this
qualitative shift in information gathering is constitutionally significant under
existing doctrine. Part III also offers guidelines gleaned from the intersection
of First and Fourth Amendment jurisprudence for consideration by lower courts
and legislators as they address the threat of limitless surveillance which big
data and new technologies present.   [*412]

    I. The Public Value of Anonymity

    In 1964, a commentator observed that one day "automated society might look
upon privacy with the same air of amused nostalgia we now reserve for, say,
elaborate eighteenth-century drawing room manners." n13 Numerous modern scholars
have similarly declared that privacy "is in 'peril,' 'distress,' or 'danger.'"
n14 Much has been written about the need to adapt Fourth Amendment law to
accommodate modern infringements on privacy interests. n15 As this Part
explains, FRT focuses particular attention on one aspect of privacy--the ability
to manage and retain one's anonymity. This Part defines anonymity and attempts
to place it in some historical context. Although American colonists lived under
the constant gaze of their communities, they abhorred the officious prying of
British authorities. They also robustly engaged in anonymous speech. This Part
goes on to describe modern-day FRT and the threat it poses to privacy in the
twenty-first century. In short, technology has put in jeopardy a value that most
Americans take for granted--the ability to carry on largely incognito, if we so
choose.

    A. Anonymity Defined

    Privacy is a vague notion that means different things to different people in
various contexts. n16 Scholars have painstakingly developed taxonomies for
privacy, parsing its subcomponents in an effort to develop a more accurate
vocabulary for debate and analysis. n17 Two conceptions of privacy are
particularly accessible to most laypeople. n18 Informational privacy is the
[*413]  interest in "avoiding disclosure of personal matters" and controlling
one's own personal information, which the Supreme Court has suggested is
constitutionally protected when gathered and held by the government. n19 Today,
the term often relates to information stored on computer systems, such as
medical records, financial data, criminal records, political records,
business-related information, and online data. n20 Physical privacy has
traditionally been equated with the protection of one's person or physical
space, such as a home or vehicle. Violations of physical privacy can trigger
Fourth Amendment and/or common law scrutiny. n21 People intrinsically appreciate
the need for legal limits on the ability of the government and others to invade
one's home or body absent consent.

    Related to both informational and physical privacy--but less salient in the
collective mind of the public--is the concept of anonymity: the state of hiding
in plain sight from the government so long as one abides by the rule of law.
Anonymity is the freedom from being identified and tracked by name while going
through the motions of daily life, including physical movement in private and
public spaces, the transaction of business online, and the maintenance of
personal and professional relationships, habits, and beliefs--however unpopular
or repugnant. n22 Anonymity enables one to re  [*414]  main undifferentiated in
public. In literal terms, it means "nameless." n23 As Justice Sotomayor
suggested in United States v. Jones, n24 the everyday occurrences for which
anonymity is appreciated "take[] little imagination to conjure: trips to the
psychiatrist, the plastic surgeon, the abortion clinic, the AIDS treatment
center, the strip club, the criminal defense attorney, the by-the-hour motel,
the union meeting, the mosque, synagogue or church, the gay bar and on and on."
n25 In protecting against government access to one's physical whereabouts,
anonymity shelters private information about one's thoughts, relationships, and
plans for the future. n26 It fosters the capacity to control or limit access to
"one's intimate relationships or aspects of life" n27 and, accordingly, to
exclude others from the very "consciousness of the mind." n28

    In the late eighteenth century, philosopher Jeremy Bentham famously unveiled
his "panopticon" design for institutional buildings, which contained a central
tower surrounded by a perimeter of backlit cells from which inmates could not
see their surveyors. n29 Bentham described the design as "a new mode of
obtaining power of mind over mind," as a single guard could theoretically
control all of the prisoners simultaneously. n30 As French philosopher Michel
Foucault later explained, the prisoners would internalize the presumption that
they are being watched and modify their behavior to comply with expectations,
n31 rendering the guards virtually superfluous. Legal theorists who have studied
the panopticon effect posit that "anonymity in public promotes freedom of action
and an open society," while a "lack of public anonymity promotes conformity and
an oppressive  [*415]  society" n32 in which "majoritarian authority will coerce
citizens into silence or acquiescence." n33

    Although Bentham never built his panopticon, the association of privacy with
anonymity from the government later appeared in the writings of Samuel Warren
and Louis Brandeis, who in 1890 recognized "the right to be let alone" n34 as an
important definitional component of privacy and one that has since become "the
foundation of privacy law in the United States." n35 In the twentieth century,
Professor William Prosser similarly identified intrusions upon a person's
seclusion or solitude as a distinct kind of privacy invasion against which the
law should provide protection. n36

    Social science research suggests that contemporary Americans view the
ability to move about in public or online without being tracked as an important
aspect of privacy. n37 Surveys indicate that Internet users perceive an invasion
of privacy when their web-surfing information is collected and shared with other
parties. n38 People especially want to maintain a meaningful degree of
independence from the government when it comes to personal thoughts and
communications with others. Even before online technology took hold, survey
respondents ranked the monitoring of phone calls for thirty days and the reading
of a personal diary as more intrusive than the government's withdrawal of blood.
n39 An area of particular public concern is video surveillance, which may arouse
fears of rigid and arbitrary law en  [*416]  forcement by an omniscient state.
n40 National surveys and focus groups indicate that "the threat of misuse of
biometric identifiers is a point of concern and an obstacle to social
acceptance" of such technologies. n41 This attitude is reflected in survey
participants' relative distaste for the use of biometric identification systems
in public events like a professional football game, which was "viewed as a
transgression of anonymity and decisional autonomy without sufficient policy
justification or assurance that the identification could be carried out with
accuracy and reliability." n42

    People appear to be more willing to tolerate privacy intrusions where the
government's use of their personal information would foster their own
well-being. n43 The cost-benefit calculus imperceptibly performed around the
acceptability of new technology, moreover, can be affected by the perceived
urgency of its public safety benefits. In the months after 9/11, 51 percent of
people surveyed expressed greater trust in government than survey respondents
did a year earlier. n44 Respondents were also more comfortable with decreased
anonymity when biometric technology was used for boarding a plane, accessing
government buildings, checking against a terrorist watch list, or requiring
background checks on foreigners. n45 In a CBS/New York Times poll taken after
the Boston Marathon attacks, 78 percent of respondents endorsed the idea of
having more public surveillance cameras such as those that helped identify the
bombing suspects; only 20 percent said that the government has gone too far in
restricting civil liberties in the battle against terrorism. n46

    Anonymity is nonetheless something that Americans generally take for
granted. People expect to be able to recede into a crowd or go unnoticed while
walking down the street so long as they have nothing illegal to hide. At this
juncture, there is "insufficient public awareness" about FRT, as well as "zero
auditing mechanisms in place for any entity using the technologies." n47 As a
consequence, the public is unable to meaningfully perform a cost-benefit
calculus regarding the government's use of new technologies for various forms of
surveillance. They can only react when employment of  [*417]  state-of-the-art
surveillance methods makes headlines. In a separate CNN/Time poll taken two
weeks after the Boston tragedy, 61 percent of respondents were more concerned
about government expansion of anti-terrorism policies that restrict civil
liberties than they were about the government failing to enact new policies to
fight terrorism. n48 As information technology continues to gain in intelligence
and efficiency, it becomes increasingly difficult for individuals to emerge from
anonymity, engage in a non-anonymous transaction (such as withdrawing money from
an ATM machine), and then return to anonymity. We live in an age in which people
care deeply about privacy yet routinely provide information online in exchange
for some perceived benefit, n49 such as the ease of making a purchase
transaction, or the social or professional networking that social media
provides. Young people who have grown up with technology might not even conceive
of a personal photo as private at all. n50 What many Americans fail to
appreciate is that technology has put society on a trajectory whereby, even if
the interiors of homes and bodies are kept private, and even if the law
continues to protect against disclosures of certain categories of personal
information, anonymity will soon become a relic of history. n51

    B. Anonymity Historically

    Personal privacy was hard to come by in colonial America. n52 Colonial
travelers shared beds with strangers due to the "practical necessity" of the
"warmth and protection of a small group." n53 The lack of ceilings in early
homes enabled gawking from the roof beams. n54 Individuals were perceived
primarily as part of a family or community, which collectively monitored  [*418]
members' habits and exerted pressure to conform. n55 Newcomers to New England
towns needed permission to settle there, n56 and residents were required to
register the names of overnight guests. n57 Colonial laws forbade residents from
living alone or far from "the meeting house," or center of town, as was the
practice in England. n58 Court records show that Massachusetts homes were
systematically searched in 1668 for single persons to be relocated with
families. n59 Opposition to solitary living "was motivated, not by lack of
concern for privacy, but by traditions, practicality, and an underlying fear of
sin." n60 From the perspective of the church, living together as a family unit
was the best arrangement for individuals and the community as a whole. n61 By
the eighteenth century, however, "New England society was prepared to accept the
person who wanted to live alone because he enjoyed the privacy this way of
living provided." n62

    While living conditions afforded colonists little privacy, the
pre-technological world enabled greater privacy relative to the present day in
other respects. Inevitably, reputational information was circulated as people
moved about, n63 but people could avoid eavesdropping by conducting
conversations beyond the earshot of others. n64 Business was transacted with
scant written exchanges, n65 and personal records consisted largely of diaries
or letters. n66 Only one person possessed a paper at any given time, and copies
[*419]  had to be painstakingly recreated. n67 Individuals could control
personal documents by securing them in a desk or cabinet in their own home.

    Moreover, "despite the casualness of delivery, there seems to have been
little premeditated and malicious perusal of other people's mail" in the
seventeenth century. n68 The Post Office Act of 1710 mandated that "No Person or
Persons shall presume wittingly, willingly, or knowingly, to open, detain, or
delay . . . any Letter or Letters, Packet or Packets." n69 Colonists who were
concerned about prying British authorities developed codes for encrypting their
letters n70 and used sealing wax and wrapping paper on packages. n71 It was not
until 1835 that postmasters attempted to monitor content in response to efforts
by Southerners to make illegal the transmission of abolitionist literature
through the mail. n72 In Ex parte Jackson, n73 the Supreme Court upheld a
statute banning the transmission of lotteries via the mail, but noted that
"letters and sealed packages of this kind in the mail are as fully guarded from
examination and inspection . . . as if they were retained by the parties
forwarding them in their own domiciles." n74 Thus, when given the opportunity,
the late-nineteenth-century Court upheld citizens' privacy in their personal
mail.

    Although colonists lived in the public eye of their communities, the Framers
forbid their newly formed American government from searching a person's private
papers without first obtaining a warrant, n75 a requirement that dates back to
the English common law. n76 Whereas specific warrant provisions were included in
even the earliest state constitutions, n77 the Fourth  [*420]  Amendment came
into effect as part of the Bill of Rights in 1791. n78 The Supreme Court has
deemed "the familiar history" of the Fourth Amendment as reflecting "a choice
that our society should be one in which citizens 'dwell in reasonable security
and freedom from surveillance.'" n79 Its "commands grew in large measure out of
the colonists' . . . memories of the general warrants formerly in use in
England. These writs . . . granted sweeping power to . . . agents of the King to
search at large for smuggled goods." n80 Indeed, "aside from searches incident
to arrest, such warrantless searches were not a large issue in colonial
America." n81

    While the warrant requirement was adopted to stave off the intrusiveness of
the Crown, "anonymous speech flourished" in social and political life around the
time that freedom of speech and freedom of association became constitutionally
protected under the First Amendment. n82 For the Founding Fathers, anonymity in
the authorship of newspapers and pamphlets was central to attracting public
support for the Revolution and formation of an independent government without
evoking British punishment. n83 Although speech was strictly limited during the
years of the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, n84 the laws' constitutionality
was the subject of much debate at the time. n85 In a famous sedition trial in
1735, a printer refused to reveal the authors of anonymous attacks on the Crown
Governor of New York, an act which, according to Justice Thomas in his
concurring opinion in McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission, n86 "signified at
an early moment the extent to which anonymity and the freedom of the press were
intertwined in the early American mind." n87 In 1788, Alexander Hamilton, James
Madison, and John Jay published "the most famous example of the outpouring of
anonymous political writing that occurred during the ratifica  [*421]  tion of
the Constitution" n88 --the Federalist Papers. They used the pseudonym "Publius"
to disseminate the treasured constitutional writings, and signed others as "An
American Citizen," "Marcus," and "Americanus." n89

    Anonymous speech--and opposition to it--continued to play a central role in
political discourse after Ratification. The Continental Congress famously
attempted to identify an article by Benjamin Rush, who published his attack on
members of Congress for inflation, embezzlement, and fraud under the name
"Leonidas." n90 When a Massachusetts delegate moved to require the article's
printer to appear before Congress and discuss Leonidas, several members
successfully opposed the motion on the grounds that it violated freedom of the
press. n91 Federalists and Anti-Federalists continuously sparred in essays
written under fictitious names like "Caesar," "A Countryman," "Fabius," and
"Landowner" on the one hand and "Cato," "Brutus," "Cincinnatus," and "Federal
Farmer" on the other. n92 James Madison and Alexander Hamilton also used the
famous pseudonyms "Helvidius" and "Pacificus" in debates over President
Washington's decision to remain neutral in the war between the British and the
French. n93 Scholars have surmised from these and other examples that "the
historical use of anonymous speech strongly suggests that the Framers originally
viewed anonymity as a vital part of free speech and freedom of the press." n94

    In the nineteenth century, new technologies for law enforcement emerged as
cities increasingly faced crime and civil disobedience stemming from population
growth, ethnic and racial tensions, and economic failures. n95 With the
invention of the telegraph in 1844 and the telephone in 1876, elec  [*422]
tronic communication made individual surveillance much easier. n96 In 1890,
Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis bemoaned that "instantaneous photographs and
newspaper enterprise had invaded the sacred precincts of private and domestic
life." n97 With the advancement of photography, "amateurs could take 'candid'
photographs, often clandestinely," in lieu of the prolonged professional
sittings that preceded George Eastman's invention of the handheld camera in
1884, and newspapers came to thrive on "sin, sex and violence." n98 Wireless
police radios, n99 polygraphs, n100 and the use of fingerprints for personal
identification emerged in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
n101 Law enforcement relied heavily on wiretapping to monitor social unrest
caused by poor working conditions, World War I, and Prohibition. n102

    In the second half of the twentieth century, the government's technological
powers for visual surveillance became more sophisticated, allowing it "to peer
into homes, high rise apartments, and commercial establishments," as well as
"remote private areas." n103 Night vision devices enabled long-range military
surveillance, n104 and aerial mapping cameras allowed for precision
topographical photography. n105 As Professor Daniel Solove has observed, it was
"the profound proliferation of new information technolo  [*423]  gies during the
twentieth century--especially the rise of the computer--that made privacy erupt
into a frontline issue around the world." n106

    In addition to using surveillance technologies, the government has long
obtained personal information about individual citizens by requiring its
disclosure as an obligation of citizenship. Although the modern census gathers
information about race, income, and age, the first Congress rejected proposals
from James Madison to require such disclosures, instead using binary
categorizations such as woman or man, slave or free man, and adult or child.
n107 The Department of State began issuing passports to American citizens
traveling abroad in 1789. n108 Passports were mandated for international travel
during the Civil War and World War I n109 and have been, as a general rule,
since 1952. n110 In 1835, the Supreme Court acknowledged that "it is understood,
as matter of practice, that some evidence of citizenship is required, by the
secretary of state, before issuing a passport." n111

    Congress instituted the first income tax in 1861 as a means of raising
revenue for the Civil War. n112 The law imposed a 5-percent tax on the "annual
gains, profits, or income of every person residing in the United States" for
incomes exceeding six hundred dollars. n113 With the passage of the Sixteenth
Amendment in 1913, the federal government gained the power to require the filing
of personal financial information, such as gross income, on tax returns. n114
The first social security number was issued through the U.S. Postal Service in
1936, n115 and since then social security numbers have come to function as
unique personal identifiers n116 that are routinely linked to property
ownership, residence histories, medical records, and other public transactions.

    The government's power to require disclosures of individual data expanded
with the rise of the administrative state in the early twentieth centu  [*424]
ry. n117 In addition to social security information, federal agencies now
maintain thousands of databases with records pertaining to immigration,
bankruptcy, military history, and the receipt of federal benefits. Federal
legislation governing housing assistance now enables any law enforcement officer
to obtain the address, social security number, and photo of assistance
recipients without formal legal process. n118 In addition, states possess
"records of births, marriages, divorces, professional licenses, voting
information, worker's compensation, personnel files (for public employees), and
property ownership," as well as information about crimes, victims, and arrests.
n119 Some require the collection of biometric information and random drug tests
as preconditions to receiving public benefits. n120

    The government's legal authority to collect identifying data on individuals
derives from a number of sources. n121 Federal agencies collect a substantial
amount of information pursuant to legislation authorizing complex systems of
taxation, regulation, licensing, and entitlement distribution. For law
enforcement, the constitutional gold standard is probable cause and a warrant.
The government may alternatively use judicial, grand jury, and administrative
subpoenas and court orders, often upon a showing of mere relevance. n122 Modern
governmental data collection increasingly involves the ability to obtain
substantial amounts of information about private citizens without any formal
process. n123 Administrative and law enforcement agencies can simply purchase
personal data from private sector companies n124 or mine what already exists in
the public domain. n125 Since the private sector has turned personal data
collection into a multibillion-dollar industry, n126 the  [*425]  vitality of
this last method is becoming a hallmark of twenty-first century government
surveillance.

    Private parties have historically lacked equivalent access to others'
personal information absent the use of private investigators, civil lawsuits,
consent, trespass, or theft. This is in part a consequence of the enumerated
constitutional and statutory powers of the federal government, n127 as well as
the states' residuary "police powers," which the Supreme Court has characterized
as "the time-tested conceptional limit of public encroachment upon private
interests for 'the interests of the public.'" n128 Police powers include the
authority to perform searches of persons or property, to interrogate those in
custody, and to subpoena witnesses and documents in both the criminal and civil
contexts. n129 Although civil discovery is broad, "this power does not begin to
compare with the power of compulsion under grand jury subpoena or the intrusion
incident to a physical search for documents." n130

    With the inventions of the computer and the Internet, however, the private
sector's capacity for gathering massive amounts of personal data for commercial
purposes has exploded. Individual private corporations in the United States have
more stored data than the Library of Congress. n131 If the total information
that exists globally today were transferred to CD-ROMs, "they would stretch to
the moon in five separate piles." n132 The sheer glut of data has changed "the
essence" of information itself. n133 "In a big-data world, . . . we won't have
to be fixated on causality; instead we can discover pat  [*426]  terns and
correlations in the data that offer us novel and invaluable insights." n134 By
applying a mathematical algorithm to hundreds of billions of searches, for
example, Google can identify a disease outbreak with stunning accuracy. n135
Online retailers such as Amazon.com routinely make real-time merchandise
suggestions from browsing and purchase data. n136 Information on social
networking sites enables companies to identify when, how, and by whom their
products are being discussed. n137 Web bug trackers allow "analytics and ad
serving companies to track user behavior across large portions of the web." n138

    The government now mines huge amounts of personal data from online private
sector companies without first obtaining a search warrant, subpoena, court
order, or consent. n139 Although police investigations have always involved
information collection, the amount and variety of data involved today--and the
technological ability to create new information by cross-referencing data points
with other data points--is new. n140 By drawing  [*427]  correlations among bits
of information stored in various forms--including photographs taken from
closed-circuit surveillance cameras, algorithms of facial images, phone call
records, financial transactions, crime statistics, or email records--the
government will soon be able to predict behavior before it happens, n141 much
like Tom Cruise in the futuristic blockbuster Minority Report. n142

    C. FRT: State-of-the-Art Menace?

    FRT produces uniquely powerful data for making correlations across exabytes
of digital information. Humans engage in facial recognition instinctively by
observing and identifying a person as being one they have seen before. n143 In
addition to facial features, humans use clothing, gait, hair, posture, and other
information about a subject's physical appearance for identification. n144 In
automated systems, a device collects information about individuals and stores it
in a database according to a numeric code or algorithm that represents the
face--a "faceprint." n145 This can be done in a number of ways. One is to
measure the distance between various "nodal points" or peaks and valleys on the
face, such as the eyes, the width of nose, or the depth of the eye sockets,
cheekbones, jawline, and chin. n146 The faceprint can also be generated by
mapping the unique placement of pores, lines, and spots on the texture of an
individual's skin. n147 The computer then searches the biometric database for
comparisons of the newly acquired facial data to  [*428]  stored data. n148 FRT
is capable of matching a face from a database of over 1.6 million photos with
92-percent accuracy. n149

    FRT is useful for two main purposes. The first is verification or
authentication--that is, the "one-to-one" matching of a faceprint with an
individual record to authenticate the person's identity. The system does not
check every record in the database for a match--only that which corresponds to
the identity the individual is claiming as his own. n150 FRT can thus be used to
efficiently control access to secure facilities because it allows users to scan,
verify, and store a face within a second and requires no physical touch,
password, or employee badge. n151 The second use of FRT is for identification of
an otherwise unknown individual from an anonymous image. For this function, the
FRT system is provided an image and attempts to identify a different image of
the same individual in the database through a "one-to-many" matching process.
n152 Thousands of gigabytes of data are searched to retrieve all images that
include a particular human subject. Typically, the computer produces a group of
facial images ranked by computer-evaluated similarity. If a score is above a
predetermined threshold, a match is identified. n153 In this way, FRT can be
used to identify a particular individual or to create a profile of a random
subject which could be useful for marketing and law enforcement purposes.

    The private sector is rapidly realizing the commercial potential of FRT.
Retailers use FRT to identify shoplifters. n154 Casinos use it to detect card
counters and prevent their entry to the blackjack tables. n155 Airports, banks,
museums, and factories have installed "walk through identification systems" that
can identify sixty people per minute n156 and will eventually  [*429]  operate
at long distances. n157 Technology is being developed to automatically adapt
videos into "avatar-sized images of just a user's face" n158 and to gauge the
attractiveness of crowds. n159 In the near future, FRT will be embedded into
signs and billboards to instantly scan faces, identify recent purchase history,
and adjust the retailer's message to a person's tastes. n160 Restaurants and
stores are already exploring uses of FRT to assimilate data from social media
sites such as Facebook for this purpose. n161 Using only Facebook and
commercially available FRT, researchers in 2012 were able to identify college
students more than 30 percent of the time, n162 retrieving their names, photos,
and other personal information from Facebook--including the first five digits of
social security numbers--with the privacy settings turned on. n163

    Law enforcement now uses FRT systems "to identify suspects, accomplices and
even innocent bystanders in a wide range of criminal investigations," with scant
public notice. n164 The technology is highly efficient, allowing investigators
to perform in a manner of minutes a review of surveillance video which might
take hundreds of hours to manually com  [*430]  plete. n165 Thirty-seven states
now apply FRT to searchable databases containing the images of more than 120
million people from driver's license registries and non-driver identification
cards. n166 Ten states have authorized FBI access to their data for
investigative purposes. n167 All combined, federal and state FRT databases
currently contain approximately 400 million facial images. n168 The most
advanced systems enable officers to run searches of this data from laptops in
squad cars. n169

    In addition to photos obtained from passports, drivers' licenses, and mug
shots, the government is collecting countless video and still images of the
general public from surveillance cameras in public locations and other sources.
A company named Trapwire is working with police from the District of Columbia,
New York, and Los Angeles on rapid analysis of live footage from closed-circuit
TV surveillance cameras, n170 which number in the thousands in the New York City
subway system alone. n171 Undercover police in Florida have reportedly "mingled
with the public, using their smartphones to take videos and photos," and then
checked images against FRT data to pull up names and identities. n172 At the
2012 Republican National Convention in Tampa, live videos from smartphones fed
into a surveillance system that included ninety-four high-definition cameras.
n173 The Federal Communications Commission gave permission to test this
surveillance system as "part of an effort to eventually develop a similar $ 7
billion National Public Safety Broadband Network of highly secure, encrypted
voice, video, and data communications, as well as an evidence-quality,  [*431]
permanent recording of all data collected." n174 The government's access to
real-time data will soar as upwards of thirty thousand surveillance drones are
launched in the next decade, n175 many by private sector corporations. Equipped
with powerful FRT cameras, the drones "will be capable of capturing minute
details, including every mundane action performed by every person in an entire
city simultaneously." n176

    At the federal level, the FBI has undertaken a billion-dollar effort to
expand its current fingerprint database into a Next Generation Identification
("NGI") system that will include data such as iris scans, photos, palm prints,
gait and voice recordings, scars, tattoos, and DNA. n177 "NGI will use a variety
of biometric data, cross-referenced against the nation's growing network of
surveillance cameras to not only track your every move but create a permanent
'recognition' file on you within the government's massive databases." n178 The
plan is for NGI to be "fully operational in 2014," and to share its information
with other federal agencies and the states. n179

    Additionally, government FRT systems have access to private sector sources
of images--including private cell phones and social networking websites--for use
in identifying subjects. n180 Facebook's "tag suggestion" function automatically
retrieves the names of individuals in photos uploaded by its one billion users
at a rate of three hundred million a day. n181 Although Facebook made a
statement to Congress that it "store[s FRT] templates in encrypted form and
maintains them in a monitored and access  [*432]  restricted database," n182 its
current privacy policy reserves a right to "access, preserve and share
information when we have a good faith belief it is necessary to: detect, prevent
and address . . . illegal activity" or "to protect ourselves, you and others."
n183 It was recently disclosed that the National Security Agency's ("NSA") Prism
program enables direct government access to the systems of Google, Apple,
Facebook, and other Internet companies for purposes of obtaining search
histories, email content, file transfers, and live chats. n184 Government
agencies also collaborate with private entities through a network of federally
funded "fusion centers" for mining collective databases and histories of online
activity. n185

    The law enforcement and national security benefits of using FRT in targeted
criminal investigations are self-evident. n186 But its potential for enabling
surveillance of common citizens is troubling. Before FRT, drivers' license
photos were of limited utility to investigators unless a subject's name was
already known. n187 Law enforcement can now capture a facial image of an unknown
individual without the subject's knowledge, match the image with other bits of
data using FRT algorithms, and come up with a rich dossier of personal
information. n188 Although fingerprint data similarly enables investigators to
attach a name to unidentified biometric data, n189 FRT  [*433]  goes much
further. Once a person is identified, rapid correlations with countless other
images and data points in cyberspace and self-contained databases can detect
past activity and predict future movements. n190 Taken to its extreme, this
technology could be used to perform "identity sweeps" of random subjects for
relatively benign activities like walking a dog without a leash. n191 A few
states have imposed legislative barriers to police collection of and access to
FRT data, but many others have not. n192 The feasibility of domestic "police
state" surveillance operations is thus no longer a matter of science fiction.
n193 FRT renders innocent people susceptible to intrusive police investigations
for being "tagged" in a photo with someone suspected of a crime. n194

    Although the FBI currently limits the use of FRT to finding potential leads,
n195 there remains significant potential for errors and abuse. n196 Match errors
occur in the form of false positives and false negatives. A false positive
occurs where the FRT system incorrectly declares a successful match when the
images are not of the same individual. n197 A false negative occurs where the
FRT system fails to declare a match when the images are, in fact, of the same
individual. n198 Image quality, the background environment, the movement and age
of the subject, the focus and quality of the camera, lighting, and the angle at
which the subject's image is captured all contribute to match errors. n199 If a
face or set of features is altered with a disguise or hat, the likelihood of
misidentification increases. n200 Yet law enforcement officers rely on
electronic matches of photographs and images in the FBI's existing database
without any human verification of the results. n201 And as a re  [*434]  sult of
what is known as "function creep" or "mission creep," the initial purpose for
lawfully collecting images may later morph into additional uses that were
unannounced or unintended. n202 These vulnerabilities have serious implications,
even for those with no reason to fear law enforcement.

    D. The Harms of Compromised Anonymity

    In the big data universe, FRT enables users to trace a passerby's life in
real time--past, present, and future--through the relation of faceprint
algorithms with other data points. Although the American public's reaction to
the NSA's Prism program was relatively muted, n203 most people understand the
awkward feeling of being stared at on a bus. n204 Constant surveillance by the
government is more pernicious. It discovers a person's identity and then
augments that information based on intelligence that today's technology renders
limitless. The loss of anonymity that results from the detailed construction of
a person's identity through ongoing monitoring can lead to at least three
categories of harm, discussed below.

    First, as the panopticon suggests, ongoing identification and tracking can
adversely influence behavior. People involuntarily experience "self  [*435]
censorship and inhibition" in response to the feeling of being watched. n205
They "might think twice," for example, "before visiting websites of extreme
sports or watching sitcoms glorifying couch potatoes if they felt this might
result in higher insurance premiums." n206 The social norms that develop around
expectations of surveillance can, in turn, become a tool for controlling others.
To be sure, social control is beneficial for the deterrence of crime and
management of other negative behavior. Too much social control, however, "can
adversely impact freedom, creativity, and self-development." n207 Professor
Jeffrey Rosen has explained that the pressures of having one's private scandals
"outed" can push people toward socially influenced courses of action that,
without public disclosure and discussion, would never happen. n208 They are less
willing to voice controversial ideas or associate with fringe groups for fear of
bias or reprisal. n209 With the sharing of images online, the public contributes
to what commentators have called "sousveillance" or a "reverse Panopticon"
effect, whereby "the watched become the watchers." n210

    Second, dragnet-style monitoring can cause emotional harm. Living with
constant monitoring is stressful, inhibiting the subject's ability to relax and
negatively affecting social relationships. n211 When disclosures involve
particularly sensitive physical or emotional characteristics that are normally
concealed--such as "grief, suffering, trauma, injury, nudity, sex, urination,
and defecation"--a person's dignity and self-esteem is affected, and incivility
toward that person increases. n212

    Third, constant surveillance through modern technologies reduces
accountability for those who use the data to make decisions that affect the
people they are monitoring. n213 The collection of images for FRT applica
[*436]  tions is indiscriminate, with no basis for suspecting a particular
subject of wrongdoing. It allows users to cluster disparate bits of information
together from one or more random, unidentified images such that "the whole
becomes greater than the parts." n214 The individuals whose images are captured
do not know how their data is being used and have no ability to control the
manipulation of their faceprints, even though the connections that are made
reveal new facts that the subjects did not knowingly disclose. The party doing
the aggregating gains a powerful tool for forming and disseminating personal
judgments that render the subject vulnerable to public humiliation and other
tangible harms, including criminal investigation. n215 Incorrect surveillance
information can lead to lost job opportunities, intense scrutiny at airports,
false arrest, and denials of public benefits. n216 In turn, a lack of
transparency, accountability, and public participation in and around
surveillance activities fosters distrust in government. The recent scandal and
fractured diplomatic relations over NSA surveillance of U.S. allies is a case in
point. n217 Perhaps most troubling, FRT enhances users' capacity to identify and
track individuals' propensity to take particular actions, n218 which stands in
tension with the common law presumption of innocence embodied in the Due Process
Clause of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. n219 As described below,
prevailing constitutional doctrine does not account for the use of technology to
identify, track, and predict the behavior of a subject using an anonymous public
image and big data correlations.

    II. Anonymity and the Constitution

    Although the Constitution lacks an express right to privacy, the Supreme
Court has acknowledged that the Bill of Rights reflects the Framers' concern for
protecting specific aspects of physical privacy, such as privacy  [*437]  of
speech and assembly (First Amendment), n220 privacy of the home against demands
that it be used to house soldiers (Third Amendment), n221 privacy of the person
and possessions against unreasonable searches (Fourth Amendment), n222 and
informational privacy (Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination).
n223 Many view the splintered decision in Griswold v. Connecticut n224 as the
Supreme Court's first recognition of a right to decisional privacy n225 on the
theory that "specific guarantees in the Bill of Rights have penumbras, formed by
emanations from those guarantees that help give them life and substance," and
that some of those guarantees "create zones of privacy." n226 Writing for a
majority of which two Justices concurred only in the judgment, Justice Douglas
construed such penumbras to include the First Amendment's right of association
and the Fourth Amendment's right "to be secure in their persons, houses, papers,
and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures." n227 Although the
Supreme Court has steadily reviewed new surveillance technologies under the
Fourth Amendment for more than a century, prevailing doctrine leaves FRT beyond
constitutional scrutiny. By contrast, anonymity is an interest that has received
First Amendment protection, but no court has extended that doctrine to  [*438]
government surveillance methods. n228 Thus, as things stand, the Constitution
plays no meaningful role in confining the serious anonymity harms associated
with FRT identification and monitoring.

    A. Anonymity and the Fourth Amendment

    The Supreme Court has recognized that "the overriding function of the Fourth
Amendment is to protect personal privacy and dignity against unwarranted
intrusion by the State." n229 In Mapp v. Ohio, n230 the Court characterized the
Fourth Amendment as actually establishing a "right to privacy, no less important
than any other right carefully and particularly reserved to the people." n231
Together with the Fifth Amendment, n232 the Fourth Amendment "expresses
'supplementing phases of the same constitutional purpose--to maintain inviolate
large areas of personal privacy.'" n233 Application of traditional Fourth
Amendment doctrine to modern surveillance technologies such as FRT nonetheless
risks emptying such privacy guarantees of meaning.

    Numerous scholars have addressed whether the Fourth Amendment covers the
government's use of novel technologies, and how leading doctrine should be
adjusted to ensure sufficient constitutional scrutiny of new methods of
conducting a law enforcement "search." n234 This Section highlights an
additional nuance that warrants consideration within this discussion: a
distinction between pre-digital and digital age cases. The surveillance
potential of big data was only technologically possible after the Internet took
hold on the public with the development of the first webpage and web browsers in
the early 1990s. n235 Today, it is technology's capacity to generate new
information by making correlations among individual data points which poses
unprecedented threats to the ability to remain anonymous in modern society,
rendering traditional Fourth Amendment doctrine  [*439]  outmoded for the
digital age. As explained below, a contingent of the Supreme Court is beginning
to recognize that constitutional doctrine must be adapted to establish
boundaries on the use of technology for constant surveillance of the general
public.

    1.  Pre-Digital Age

    The categorization of government activity as a search under the Fourth
Amendment is important under traditional doctrine: if something is not a search,
the analysis ends, and the government is not required to show probable cause.
n236 A traditional search is like the tort of trespass, which existed at the
time the Fourth Amendment was adopted. It involves a physical intrusion on
private property. The Supreme Court deviated from this property-based approach
to determining whether something is a search early on, however, and developed a
"reasonable expectation of privacy" trigger. n237 In the absence of a trespass,
"a Fourth Amendment search occurs when the government violates a subjective
expectation of privacy that society recognizes as reasonable." n238 The
legitimate expectation of privacy in a searched person or location must meet
both a subjective and an objective test of reasonableness. "First, has the
individual manifested a subjective expectation of privacy in the object of the
challenged search? Second, is society willing to recognize that expectation as
reasonable?" n239 For subpoenas, the Court has invoked the Fourth Amendment only
minimally, applying a reasonableness test that is satisfied if a subpoena is not
"too sweeping in its terms." n240 It has also authorized warrantless searches in
three circumstances: if there is "reasonable suspicion" of a past or imminent
crime to justify a stop and frisk; n241 if "'special needs' other than the
normal need for law enforcement provide sufficient justification" for a search,
n242 as in cases of mandatory drug testing for employment or in schools; n243
and if a regulatory scheme  [*440]  authorizes warrantless inspections of
property "for compliance with health and safety standards," n244 for example.
Additionally, the Court has established a status-based continuum of diminished
privacy rights under the Fourth Amendment which includes "parolees having fewer
expectations of privacy than probationers." n245

    The question of what "privacy" means under the Fourth Amendment has
nonetheless been in flux from the phrase's inception. n246 In Olmstead v. United
States, n247 Louis Brandeis famously dissented from the majority's holding that
wiretapping was not a Fourth Amendment violation absent physical trespass to the
home, employing his familiar theory that "the makers of our Constitution . . .
conferred, as against the government, the right to be let alone--the most
comprehensive of rights and the right most valued by civilized men." n248
Employing a property-based approach to the Fourth Amendment, Boyd v. United
States n249 marked a high point of the Supreme Court's recognition of broad
protections against government invasion of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
In refusing to uphold a court order directing a defendant in a civil forfeiture
proceeding to produce documentary evidence of liability, the Court framed the
"essence" of the government's offense as "the invasion of the indefeasible right
of personal security, personal liberty and private property," as the framers
were keenly attuned to "the struggles against arbitrary power in which they had
been engaged for more than 20 years" when they approved the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments. n250

    In Katz v. United States, n251 however, a majority of the Court rejected the
property-based reasoning of Boyd and held that the relevant Fourth Amendment
inquiry is whether the practice at issue "violated the privacy upon which [the
defendant] justifiably relied." n252 It wrote that the Constitu  [*441]  tion
"protects people, not places." n253 Thus, the government violated the Fourth
Amendment in electronically listening to and recording the defendant's
conversation in a public telephone booth--once a fixture on American street
corners and in Superman comics. The Court found it insignificant that the
electronic device did not penetrate the structure's walls. n254 In doing so, the
Court rejected the property-based approach to electronic surveillance, instead
embracing Brandeis's articulation of the "right to be let alone." n255 It has
restated this refrain many times since. n256

    Despite the doctrinal shift in Katz, existing Fourth Amendment doctrine
provides no clear protection from government surveillance conducted through an
amalgamation of FRT algorithms and other data. That Court made clear that "what
a person knowingly exposes to the public, even in his own home or office, is not
a subject of Fourth Amendment protection." n257 Accordingly, the Court has held
that, because "the exterior of a car . . . is thrust into the public eye, . . .
to examine it does not constitute a 'search.'" n258 Nor is there a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the phone numbers "voluntarily conveyed . . . to the
telephone company and 'exposed' . . . in the ordinary course of business." n259
There is no reasonable expectation of privacy in abandoned property, like
garbage left out for collection, n260 or in the movements of an automobile on
public thoroughfares. n261

    As a consequence, the collection of a faceprint does not constitute a search
under the Court's longstanding view that "mere visual observation does not
constitute a search." n262 Non-consensual facial scanning amounts to  [*442]  no
more than visual observation of what is held out to the public. To the extent
that FRT is considered part and parcel of the traditional visual surveillance
that police conduct in unmarked vehicles--which has long been considered
constitutional n263 --the Fourth Amendment does not apply. FRT also targets an
area of the body that a person would not reasonably expect to consider private.
The Court has held that the taking of a photograph does not constitute a search
because "it does not involve a physical intrusion onto the person" and does not
"invade[] any recognized 'expectation of privacy.'" n264 Insofar as FRT enables
law enforcement to identify a subject from an anonymous photo, moreover, Hiibel
v. Sixth Judicial District Court n265 suggests that such identification is
constitutional. n266 There, the Court rejected a Fourth Amendment challenge to a
law requiring people to identify themselves during a police stop on the theory
that "answering a request to disclose a name is likely to be so insignificant in
the scheme of things as to be incriminating only in unusual circumstances." n267
In dissent, Justice Stevens highlighted the ability to attach a name to "a broad
array of information about the person" which, "in turn, can be tremendously
useful in a criminal prosecution." n268

    Even if the Fourth Amendment were construed to broaden the meaning of
"search" to encompass FRT, it would be an empty victory for privacy advocates.
Many smartphones contain FRT technology, n269 and private citizens snap and
upload countless images onto Facebook each day. Aside from the Thirteenth
Amendment's ban on slavery, n270 the Constitution--and thus Brandeis's
constitutional formulation of a right to be let alone--applies only "as against
the Government." n271 If private parties employ FRT, the Constitution is not
triggered. Those concerned that government will obtain  [*443]  existing FRT
data through private channels have no apparent constitutional remedy if
governmental use of such data effectively results in indiscriminate, twenty-four
hour passive surveillance.

    Relatedly, the Supreme Court "has held repeatedly that the Fourth Amendment
does not prohibit the obtaining of information revealed to a third party and
conveyed by him to Government authorities." n272 There is no Fourth Amendment
ban on the use of information obtained through government informants, for
example, n273 even though they "frustrate actual expectations of privacy." n274
The Court has also upheld the warrantless installation of pen registers to
record numbers dialed from a subject's home on the theory that "telephone
subscribers [do not] harbor any general expectation that the numbers they dial
will remain secret." n275 It has condoned government scrutiny of documents
provided to accountants, n276 banks, n277 and physicians, n278 because such
documents "contain only information voluntarily conveyed" and the individual
"takes the risk . . . that the information will be conveyed by that person to
the Government." n279 With the advent of the Internet, lower courts have applied
the third-party doctrine to justify government subpoenas of shared computer
files, information sent or received through the Internet and stored on a
third-party server, n280 and individual subscriber information obtained from
Internet service providers without a  [*444]  warrant. n281 By treating public
exposure and third-party access to personal information as waivers of Fourth
Amendment protections, modern doctrine offers a difficult path to erecting
protections against government surveillance conducted by piecing together
various public and private sector data with images posted online or captured in
plain sight.

    2. Digital Age

    The Court has grappled for decades with the related question of whether--and
the extent to which--government can use technology to enhance its ability to
"see" what is arguably exposed to the public. It held in 1983 that there is no
legitimate expectation of privacy in the interior of a car illuminated by a
flashlight because "the use of artificial means to illuminate a darkened area
simply does not constitute a search." n282 Three years later, it found that
warrantless naked-eye aerial observation of a fenced-in backyard was not
unreasonable under the Fourth Amendment as "any member of the public flying in
this airspace who glanced down could have seen everything that these officers
observed." n283

    In 2001, however, the Court recognized emerging technologies' privacy
implications when it decided that the use of thermal imaging technology to
measure heat emanating from a home was a search because it amounted to "more
than naked-eye surveillance" with "a device that is not in general public use."
n284 As Justice Alito recently described it, Kyllo v. United States n285 was "a
decision about the use of new technology." n286 Writing for the majority in
Florida v. Jardines, n287 Justice Scalia similarly distinguished Kyllo as a case
involving surveillance technology that allows law enforcement to learn details
"that would previously have been unknowable without physical intrusion." n288 He
reached the conclusion that a drug-sniffing police  [*445]  dog deployed from
the front porch of a home constituted a Fourth Amendment search despite "the
antiquity" of forensic dogs as an investigative tool because there was no
implicit license or invitation for the police to approach the home for the
purpose of obtaining incriminating evidence inside. n289

    Earlier, in City of Ontario v. Quon, n290 the Court similarly highlighted
the novelty of new technology as relevant to whether the user of a
government-issued pager had a reasonable expectation of privacy in messages
retained by the service provider. Sidestepping the Fourth Amendment question on
the merits, Justice Kennedy cautioned that it "must proceed with care when
considering the whole concept of privacy expectations in communications made on
electronic equipment," else it "risks error by elaborating too fully on the
Fourth Amendment implications of emerging technology before its role in society
has become clear." n291 He explained that modern judges are not "on so sure a
ground" as the Katz Court was in relying on "its own knowledge and experience to
conclude that there is a reasonable expectation of privacy in a telephone
booth." n292 "Rapid changes in the dynamics of communication and information
transmission are evident not just in the technology itself but in what society
accepts as proper behavior," he continued, and "cell phone and text message
communications are so pervasive that some persons may consider them to be
essential means . . . for self-expression, even self-identification," thus
potentially "strengthening the case for an expectation of privacy." n293

    Two additional cases highlight the modern Court's struggle with fitting
modern technologies within the existing Fourth Amendment rubric. In United
States v. Jones, n294 the Court held that the warrantless installation of a
global positioning system ("GPS") device to monitor the location of a person's
car constituted a search because the police "physically occupied private
property for the purpose of obtaining information." n295 Justice Scalia thus
revived for the majority the old, property-based approach to the Fourth
Amendment n296 instead of taking an arguably more obvious tactic: applying
United States v. Knotts n297 for the proposition that there is "no reasonable
expectation of privacy in [a driver's] movements from one place to anoth  [*446]
er." n298 Declaring Katz the inexclusive test, Justice Scalia confined it to
"situations involving merely the transmission of electronic signals without
trespass," n299 while conceding that electronic surveillance "without an
accompanying trespass" of a GPS device could amount "an unconstitutional
invasion of privacy" in a future case. n300

    Justice Sotomayor n301 --and, separately, Justice Alito, n302 joined by
Justices Ginsberg, Breyer, and Kagan--expressed concern that modern technology
is eroding individuals' ability to be free of government monitoring. She wrote
that "electronic or other novel modes of surveillance can generate[] a precise,
comprehensive record of a person's public movements that reflects a wealth of
detail about her familial, political, professional, religious, and sexual
associations"--without any physical invasion of property. n303 The government,
she added, can store and mine such data indefinitely. n304 Because modern
electronic surveillance is cheap by comparison to traditional surveillance
techniques, it "proceeds surreptitiously" and "evades the ordinary checks that
constrain abusive law enforcement practices: 'limited police resources and
community hostility.'" n305 She referred to the Fourth Amendment's "goal to . .
. prevent 'a too permeating police surveillance'" n306 and questioned the
propriety of the third-party doctrine as "ill suited to the digital age, in
which people reveal a great deal of information about themselves to third
parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks," such as phone numbers,
URLs visited, corresponding email addresses, "and the books, groceries, and
medications they purchase" online. n307 Although some people might accept this
diminution of privacy as a "tradeoff" for access to technology or simply
"inevitable," she expressed "doubt that people would accept without complaint
the warrantless disclo  [*447]  sure to the Government of a list of every Web
site they had visited in the last week, or month, or year." n308

    For his part, Justice Alito focused on the problem of "long-term
monitoring," agreeing in principle with the majority that "we must 'assure
preservation of that degree of privacy against government that existed when the
Fourth Amendment was adopted.'" n309 Of course, he added, "it is almost
impossible to think of late-18th-century situations" analogous to the
capabilities of modern surveillance technology. n310 The majority's physical
trespass theory, he explained, "would provide no protection" to "long-term
monitoring . . . accomplished without committing a technical trespass," n311 yet
"for such offenses, society's expectation has been that law enforcement agents
and others would not--and indeed, in the main, simply could not--secretly
monitor and catalogue every single movement of an individual's car for a very
long period." n312 Justice Alito thus recognized that because "new devices" such
as closed-circuit television video monitoring, automatic toll collection systems
with recording technology, built-in GPS systems, and wireless tracking devices
embedded in cell phones "permit the monitoring of a person's movements" in ways
that were impossible before the digital age, traditional Fourth Amendment
analysis is inapposite. n313

    Maryland v. King n314 is the most recent case in which the Supreme Court
addressed the vexing intersection of technology and privacy under the Fourth
Amendment. At a booking on an arrest for assault, the police took a DNA sample
by applying a buccal swab to the inside of a suspect's cheek. n315 The DNA
matched that of a rape victim taken six years earlier, leading to the arrestee's
subsequent rape conviction. n316 The DNA matching occurred through the Combined
DNA Index System ("CODIS"), which connects DNA data at the national, state, and
local levels under FBI supervision. n317 On appeal, a Maryland court held that
the cheek swab was an unreasonable search under the Fourth Amendment. n318
Reversing, Justice Kennedy wrote for the majority that a Fourth Amendment search
occurred, but that it was reasonable and did not require a warrant. n319 For
him, identifying an arrestee properly connotes "more than just" linking a name
and social  [*448]  security number, but also "criminal history," aliases,
photographs, and any other information that the police can obtain by "searching
the records already in their valid possession," n320 such as "family ties,
employment status and history, financial resources, reputation, character and
mental condition, and length of residence in the community." n321 Justice
Kennedy suggested that DNA is a mere relative of fingerprinting, n322 and that
its value lies in allowing law enforcement "to make critical choices about how
to proceed," ensuring that the accused remains available for trial, and helping
protect the public from further harm--interests that, taken together, outweighed
the arrestee's privacy interests in King. n323

    Although King would appear to narrow the availability of Fourth Amendment
protections against invasive new technologies, three aspects of Justice
Kennedy's decision distinguish DNA sampling from the dragnet-style surveillance
of the general public which FRT makes possible. First, he emphasized that an
arrestee's diminished expectations of privacy are distinguishable from those of
"the public at large or a particular class of . . . law-abiding citizens." n324
Second, Justice Kennedy stressed that technology could progress to the point at
which the Fourth Amendment balance would be struck in the arrestee's favor, such
as if DNA showed a "predisposition for a particular disease or other hereditary
factors not relevant to identity." n325 It is thus possible that the Court would
condemn the warrantless use of FRT on law-abiding citizens for particularly
invasive purposes. Third, a Maryland statute forbidding the use of DNA for
anything other than identification "generally allayed . . . privacy concerns" at
issue in King. n326 In the absence of regulatory or statutory protections, the
Court might grant the Constitution a greater role in protecting particular zones
of privacy from unjustified government intrusion using FRT.

    Justice Scalia's dissenting opinion, joined by Justices Ginsberg, Sotomayor,
and Kagan, took issue with Justice Kennedy's characterization of King's DNA
matching as mere identification. n327 For Justice Scalia, Justice Kennedy
confused verification--the use of biometric data to confirm whether someone is
whom he appears to be--with identification, which, properly understood, is more
like "searching for evidence that [a person] has committed crimes unrelated to
the crime of his arrest." n328 It "taxes the credulity of the credulous,"
Justice Scalia quipped, to assert that the DNA  [*449]  in King was not in fact
used to solve crimes, n329 an aim "that has never been thought to justify a
suspicionless search." n330 Justice Scalia likened the practice to so-called
"general warrants" at the time of the Founding--those "not grounded upon a sworn
oath of a specific infraction by a particular individual, and thus not limited
in scope and application." n331 Justice Scalia also noted that the suspect's
identity was already known when the state ran his DNA through the CODIS system
long after he was arrested; the matching was thus performed in order to identify
the DNA sample from the rape--not to verify identity. n332 What DNA offers that
fingerprinting does not, he added, "is the ability to solve unsolved crimes, by
matching old crime-scene evidence against the profiles of people whose
identities are already known." n333 Justice Scalia warned that "if one believes
that DNA will 'identify' someone arrested for assault, he must believe that it
will 'identify' someone arrested for a traffic offense." n334 His dissent in
King is thus an acknowledgement that some constitutional limits must be placed
on the uses of surveillance technologies that enable government to create new
information by identifying correlations among otherwise disparate data points:
"Perhaps the construction of . . . a genetic panopticon is wise," he wrote, "but
I doubt that the proud men who wrote the charter of our liberties would have
been so eager to open their mouths for royal inspection." n335

    B. Anonymity and the First Amendment

    Separately, a line of First Amendment cases confirms that the privacy threat
posed by technologies like FRT--the government's unfettered identification and
monitoring of personal associations, speech, activities, and beliefs, for no
justifiable purpose--is one of constitutional dimension. In fact, the Supreme
Court has steadfastly protected anonymous speech. n336  [*450]

    The Court's repeated pronouncements that the First Amendment n337 safeguards
the right of anonymous speech--that is, the right to distribute written
materials without personal identification of the author--largely came about in
response to government attempts to mandate disclosures in public writings. n338
In Talley v. California, n339 the Court struck down a Los Angeles ordinance
restricting the distribution of a handbill "in any place under any
circumstances, which does not have printed on the cover . . . the name and
address of . . . the person who printed, wrote, compiled or manufactured the
same." n340 Finding that the law infringed on freedom of expression, the Court
observed that "anonymous pamphlets, leaflets, brochures and even books have
played an important role in the progress of mankind" by enabling persecuted
groups to criticize oppressive practices and other matters of public importance,
particularly where the alternative may be not speaking at all. n341

    The Talley Court n342 relied on two cases that linked anonymous speech with
the ability to freely associate in private. Both involved constitutional  [*451]
challenges n343 to laws requiring members of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People ("NAACP") to furnish government officials with its
member lists. In NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, n344 the lower court
imposed a $ 100,000 civil contempt fine after the organization refused to comply
with a court order requiring production of its lists. n345 The Supreme Court
lifted the judgment and fine, holding that "immunity from state scrutiny of
membership lists . . . is here so related to the right of the members to pursue
their lawful private interests privately" as to be constitutionally protected on
privacy and free association grounds. n346 Although "association" is not listed
among the First Amendment's enumerated freedoms, the Court declared in Talley
that "freedom to engage in association for the advancement of beliefs and ideas
is an inseparable aspect of . . . 'liberty.'" n347

    In Bates v. City of Little Rock, n348 the NAACP's records custodian was
tried, convicted, and fined for refusing to comply with state ordinances
requiring that membership lists "be public and subject to the inspection of any
interested party at all reasonable business hours." n349 The organization
claimed a right on the part of its members to participate in NAACP activities
anonymously and "free from any restraints or interference from city or state
officials"--a right that it felt "has been recognized as the basic right of
every American citizen since the founding of this country." n350 The Supreme
Court again struck down the ordinances, asserting that the freedom of speech, a
free press, freedom of association, and a right to peaceably assemble are
protected "from being stifled by such subtle governmental influence" as a
requirement to divulge membership lists. n351  [*452]

    Over four decades later, the Court in McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission
characterized anonymous speech as important to the preservation of personal
privacy. n352 In McIntyre, the plaintiff distributed leaflets opposing a school
superintendent's referendum which were anonymously attributed to "CONCERNED
PARENTS AND TAX PAYERS." n353 The Ohio Election Commission fined the plaintiff
for violating state laws banning the distribution of unsigned leaflets. n354 The
U.S. Supreme Court reversed a lower court ruling upholding the ordinance,
explaining that "an author's decision to remain anonymous . . . is an aspect of
the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment"--even if "the decision
in favor of anonymity is motivated . . . merely by a desire to preserve as much
of one's privacy as possible." n355 The Court extolled the virtues of anonymity
as fostering "great works of literature . . . under assumed names," enabling
groups to criticize the government without the threat of persecution, and
"providing a way for a writer who may be personally unpopular to ensure that
readers will not prejudge her message simply because they do not like its
proponent." n356 As "core political speech," it concluded, "no form of speech is
entitled to greater constitutional protection." n357

    Justice Stevens went on in his majority opinion to tether anonymity to the
purpose behind the Bill of Rights and the First Amendment: "to protect unpopular
individuals from retaliation--and their ideas from suppression--at the hand of
an intolerant society." n358 "Anonymity," he explained, "is a shield from the
tyranny of the majority." n359 In a concurring opinion, Justice Thomas commented
that the Founders' "practices and beliefs" on the subject "indicate[] that they
believed the freedom of the press to include the right to author anonymous
political articles and pamphlets." n360 "That most other Americans shared this
understanding," he added, "is reflected in the Federalists' hasty retreat before
the withering criticism of their assault on the liberty of the press." n361
Justice Scalia dissented, arguing that anonymity "facilitates wrong by
eliminating accountability, which is ordinarily its very purpose." n362 To treat
"all anonymous communication . . . in our society  [*453]  as traditionally
sacrosanct," he continued, "seems to me a distortion of the past that will lead
to a coarsening of the future." n363

    In Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. v. Village of
Stratton, n364 the Court struck down an ordinance requiring permits for
door-to-door canvassing as a prior restraint on speech but also because the law
vitiated the possibility of anonymous speech. n365 It characterized the permit
requirement as "resulting in a surrender of . . . anonymity"--even where
"circulators revealed their physical identities"--because "strangers to the
resident certainly maintain their anonymity." n366 The Court was thus unmoved by
the fact that speakers who ring doorbells necessarily make themselves physically
known to their audience, thus revealing themselves to some extent. For the
Court, it was the recognition that occurs when a name on a permit is connected
to a face which triggered the Constitution's protection of anonymity.

    Most recently, a fractured plurality in Doe v. Reed n367 upheld a state law
compelling public disclosure of the identities of referendum petition
signatories while squarely acknowledging the vitality of a First Amendment right
to anonymous speech. n368 Significantly, all but one Justice recognized that the
government's ability to correlate identifying information with online data
created a First Amendment hazard of unprecedented dimension. Writing for the
majority, Chief Justice Roberts found that an individual's expression of a
political view through a signature on a referendum petition implicated a First
Amendment right. n369 The Court nonetheless held that the state's interest in
preserving the integrity of the electoral process and informing the public about
who supports a petition justified the burdens of compelled disclosure. n370
Justice Roberts made a point of deeming "significant" the plaintiffs' argument
that, "once on the Internet," their names and addresses could be matched with
other publicly available information about them "in what will effectively become
a blueprint for harassment and intim  [*454]  idation." n371 Because the
majority only considered the facial challenge to the law, Justice Roberts found
the burdens imposed by "typical referendum petitions" unlike those that the
plaintiffs feared. n372

    Justice Alito wrote separately to emphasize that government access to
personal data online gave rise to a strong as-applied challenge based on the
"individual . . . right to privacy of belief and association." n373 He
considered "breathtaking" the implications of the state's argument that it has
an interest in providing information to the public about supporters of a
referendum petition; if true, "the State would be free to require petition
signers to disclose all kinds of demographic information, including the signer's
race, religion, political affiliation, sexual orientation, ethnic background,
and interest-group memberships." n374 Justice Alito added that the posting of
names and addresses online could allow "anyone with access to a computer to
compile a wealth of information about all of those persons," with vast potential
for use in harassment. n375 Justice Thomas dissented on similar grounds,
asserting that he would sustain a facial challenge precisely because "the advent
of the Internet enables rapid dissemination of the information needed to
threaten or harass every referendum signer," thus "chilling protected First
Amendment activity." n376 Concurring separately, Justice Scalia stood alone in
his complete rejection of First Amendment protections for anonymous speech. n377
[*455]

    When considered in conjunction with the digital-age Fourth Amendment cases,
Doe is remarkable in its recognition of the pressures that modern technology
puts on the viability of existing constitutional doctrine relating to individual
privacy. Although Jones addressed GPS monitoring under the Fourth Amendment,
Justice Sotomayor invoked the First Amendment to emphasize that "awareness that
the Government may be watching chills associational and expressive freedoms,"
and that "the Government's unrestrained power to assemble data that reveal
private aspects of identity is susceptible to abuse." n378 When inexpensive
technology is paired with massive amounts of readily accessible personal
information and "unfettered" government discretion to track individual citizens,
she explained, democracy itself suffers. n379 Although pre-digital-age Fourth
Amendment case law appears to paint FRT surveillance into a doctrinal corner, in
the right case the Supreme Court may well find constitutional limits on
surveillance conducted with cutting-edge technology like FRT and publicly
available data. The next Part offers guidelines derived from the Court's Fourth
and First Amendment jurisprudence which courts and legislators should bear in
mind in crafting legal limits on surveillance through technologies like FRT.
n380

    III.Reclaiming the Constitution's Role in Protecting Anonymity

    To address the privacy threats posed by modern technology, scholars have
argued for recognition of a wholesale constitutional right to anonymity, as well
as robust enforcement of First Amendment protections of that  [*456]  right in
the face of widespread technological surveillance of the public. n381 A plethora
of scholarship has also arisen in response to the problems of new technologies
under existing Fourth Amendment doctrine. Like Justice Sotomayor in Jones, some
commenters have called for the end of the third party doctrine, n382
reconsideration of the case law truncating the Fourth Amendment's reach in
public spaces, n383 and adoption of new theories for understanding the Fourth
Amendment guarantee altogether. n384

    This Part seeks to reclaim the Constitution's relevance in protecting
anonymity in the digital age by identifying points at which the Supreme Court's
First Amendment cases on anonymity and its modern Fourth Amendment jurisprudence
intersect. FRT and related technologies employ big data to make correlations
that help predict the future in ways that were impossible only a few years ago.
n385 It is through such correlations that FRT enables users to recognize--versus
merely see--a subject, and from that data erect a comprehensive portrait of that
person's past, present, and future life. At least three guidelines can be
inferred from the Court's First and Fourth Amendment cases which courts,
legislators, and regulators should take into account in responding to the
privacy challenges posed by such technologies' unlimited access to the
whereabouts, activities, interests, associations, and beliefs of virtually any
member of society. First, the intend  [*457]  ed use of technologically derived
data should be treated as a significant factor in assessing the proper
constitutional, statutory, and regulatory scope of government activity that has
the potential to expose an individual's privacy to scrutiny. Second, and
accordingly, the law should place boundaries around the ability of government to
match faceprints with other data points for purposes other than verification of
an individual's known identity. Third, courts and lawmakers should keep in mind
that legislative protection of an individual's ability to invoke
anonymity--through conspicuous and mandatory opt-out provisions for web
tracking, for example--is constitutionally prudent, if not necessary.

    A. Recognition Through Correlation

    As the First Amendment cases indicate, anonymity implies a freedom from
being recognized--versus just being seen. In spite of surveillance technology's
reach, people still expect to mostly avoid recognition while going about their
daily routines. As technology changes the way information is collected and used,
however, the viability of that assumption is eroding. Big data "is about
predictions." n386 It operates by "applying math to huge quantities of data in
order to infer probabilities," such as "the likelihood that an email message is
spam; that the typed letters 'teh' are supposed to be 'the'; that the trajectory
and velocity of a person jay-walking mean he'll make it across the street in
time" to avoid a driverless car; and even that a person is a criminal "before
one actually commits a crime." n387 It is the linkage of a faceprint with a
name, a Facebook tag, a driving record, and real-time footage from an airport or
ATM camera--not just the collection of the faceprint itself--which remains
unaccounted for in prevailing Fourth Amendment doctrine. The Supreme Court has
construed the First Amendment as protecting speech that enables recognition by
the government. If extended to the Fourth Amendment context, this idea would
help modernize what it means to perform a search with technology which does not
result in a physical trespass.

    In both the First and Fourth Amendment arenas, the Court has treated "the
right . . . to pursue . . . lawful private interests privately" as
constitutionally protected from government interference. n388 Yet it has never
suggested that the public disclosure of one's face is itself an act of
constitutional dimension. In addressing anonymity, the Court has instead drawn a
distinction between mere observance of "physical identities" and recogni  [*458]
tion. n389 A stranger knocking on a door might remain anonymous even though his
face is visible. A "surrender of . . . anonymity" takes place when the face is
linked to other identifying information, such as a name on a pamphlet. n390
Chief Justice Roberts extended this principle to modern technology when he
emphasized in Doe v. Reed that "once on the Internet" names and addresses
contained in referendum petitions could be matched with other data "in what will
effectively become a blueprint for harassment and intimidation." n391 Similarly,
Justice Alito deemed "breathtaking" the implications of the government's ability
to match referendum petition information with other online data. n392 And
Justice Thomas associated chilled speech with the "advent of the Internet" and
"rapid dissemination" of personal information that may be used "to threaten or
harass every referendum signer." n393 Forcing individuals to enable others to
recognize them through public writings is anathema to First Amendment freedoms
of speech and association. n394

    Standing alone, a photo is likewise of limited investigative utility. "With
big data," its value "is now in secondary uses." n395 FRT works by
"electronically matching aspects of each person's appearance against biometric
or other databases." n396 Using a single image, government can "probe our lives
after the fact" by, for example, "figuring out what specific medical or social
problem led . . . to a certain source of help." n397 It does this by drawing
correlations between a faceprint and other information contained in databases or
online. In his concurring opinion in Whalen v. Roe, n398 Justice Brennan was
presciently "troubled" by "the central computer storage of the data . . .
collected" back in 1977 because it allowed government to manipulate information
in ways that could harm privacy interests--even though the Fourth Amendment did
not shield the information itself from  [*459]  government scrutiny in that
case. n399 In his view, "the central storage and easy accessibility of
computerized data vastly increase the potential for abuse of that information."
n400 "Future developments," he suggested, might one day "demonstrate the
necessity of some curb on such technology." n401 In United States v. Knotts, the
Court similarly acknowledged that, if "dragnet type law enforcement practices"
such as twenty-four-hour surveillance "without judicial knowledge or supervision
. . . should eventually occur, there will be time enough then to determine
whether different constitutional principles may be applicable." n402

    That time has come. Technology has progressed to the point at which FRT and
big data can be used to make predictions about people's behavior. This occurs
through the analysis of "the statistical relationship between two data values."
n403 "If A often takes place together with B," law enforcement might conclude
that "we need to watch out for B to predict that A will happen." n404 A
correlation between the two data points assumes that if one data value changes,
the other is likely to change as well. n405 In the foregoing example, B operates
as a proxy for what is probably happening with A, even if A's future activity
cannot be directly observed. n406 Target stores' marketing toward mothers-to-be
provides an impactful example of the power of big-data correlations in the
private sector. By reviewing the shopping histories of women with baby
registries, Target identified products that correlate with pregnancy and
calculated "pregnancy prediction" scores for new customers; it then sent
customers coupons tailored to individual due dates that it estimated with
astonishing accuracy. n407 Similarly, although a faceprint algorithm in and of
itself is just a numerical record of something that has already been made
public, the correlation of that data with other information for predictive
surveillance is altogether different. "The data may not even explicitly seem
like personal information, but with big-data processes it can easily be traced
back to the individual it refers to. Or intimate details about a person's life
can be deduced." n408

    The Supreme Court's view that there is no reasonable expectation of privacy
in things made public has thus been criticized for narrowly defining  [*460]
privacy as mere secrecy. n409 Correlating an image with other data contained in
a database is more intrusive than mere visual surveillance. People do not expect
that many passersby recognize their faces, let alone associate them with
Internet behavior or travel patterns. n410 Even if the gathering of a faceprint
from a public closed-circuit camera is unobjectionable, its correlation with
other big data produces new surveillance information that the subject did not
knowingly convey.

    The First Amendment anonymity cases indicate that the action of correlating
FRT data with other information for purposes of identifying an otherwise
anonymous person therefore should trigger the same constitutional scrutiny that
applies to other means of surveillance such as the GPS device in Jones. n411
Whether the government retrieves the requisite image through a classic physical
invasion of property should not determine whether the correlation process is
constitutionally confined. Nor should the public or third-party nature of the
data collected undermine the Constitution's role in protecting against the use
of such data for omnipresent government monitoring. Instead, as the Court
implied in Jardines, n412 new technology should be afforded distinct modes of
Fourth Amendment analysis. The action of correlating numerical faceprints with
other data amounts to "more than naked-eye surveillance of a home" with "a
device that is not in general public use" under Kyllo's formulation. n413 As
Justice Sotomayor explained in Jones, modern methods of government monitoring
rely on data mining and storage, "proceed[] surreptitiously" and cheaply, and
"evade[] the ordinary checks that constrain abusive law enforcement practices."
n414 Technology has enabled the government to "generate[] a precise,
comprehensive record of a person's public movements that reflects a wealth of
detail about her familial, political, professional, religious, and sexual
associations." n415 This novel use of bits of data defies what Justice Alito
called "society's expectation . . . that law enforcement agents and others would
not--and indeed, in  [*461]  the main, simply could not--secretly monitor and
catalogue [one's] every single movement" over a long period of time. n416

    B. Limited Use of Data

    The Court's First Amendment approach to anonymity and its Fourth Amendment
treatment of technology in the digital age further suggest that, doctrinally,
the collection of data might be constitutional for one use but not for another.
FRT analysis allows users to make predictions about a subject's behavior which
can be tremendously useful in preventing crime but also hugely problematic in
terms of personal privacy and autonomy. Even if the collection of personal data
through public interfaces is lawful, the Constitution could confine the extent
to which law enforcement can employ new technologies for predictive
surveillance.

    In their opinions in Doe, Justices Alito and Thomas suggested that there is
a meaningful distinction under the First Amendment between using personal
information contained on referendum petitions for verification and using the
information for other purposes. n417 Unlike verification, identification links a
face with a wealth of personal information about an individual from the Internet
and other public and private sources, such as birth date and place, medical
data, affiliated friends and organizations, and criminal history. This data can
be put toward law enforcement aims that go well beyond verification that a
person is in fact whom he claims to be. Justice Scalia emphasized as much in his
Maryland v. King dissent, when he assailed the majority for characterizing the
government's use of the suspect's DNA as unrelated to crime solving. n418 He
explained in great detail how the police employed the DNA sample to "solve
unsolved crimes, by matching old crime-scene evidence against the profiles of
people whose identities were already known." n419 In Jardines, as well, Justice
Scalia suggested that the intended use of a technology (such as a drug-sniffing
dog) is an important element of the Fourth Amendment analysis. n420 He
distinguished between licensed and unlicensed entries into a curtilage (e.g.,
knocking on a door versus arriving with a bloodhound or a metal detector) and
suggested that "an invitation to engage in canine forensic investigation
assuredly does not inhere in the very act of hanging a knocker." n421 As to the
reasonableness  [*462]  of a search, Justice Scalia similarly observed that it
"depends upon whether the officers had an implied license to enter the porch,
which in turn depends upon the purpose for which they entered." n422

    If--unlike the DNA in King--faceprints were used for surveillance of common
citizens, a majority of the Court might find that the Fourth Amendment applies
to limit the use of such data for secondary purposes that include identification
versus mere verification of identity. The First Amendment anonymity cases
provide insight into how courts might determine whether a secondary use of
faceprint data is constitutional. In McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Commission, for
example, the Court credited the state's interest in preventing fraud and libel
during elections "when false statements, if credited, may have serious adverse
consequences for the public at large," but found it insufficient under the
"exacting scrutiny" applicable to core political speech. n423 Under that
standard, "the simple interest in providing voters with additional relevant
information" did not justify the anonymity ban, which did little to help voters
evaluate the pamphlet's message. n424

    By the same token, "the FBI shouldn't be in the business of monitoring
demonstrations unless it has a cause, a tip, a reason." n425 In order to develop
meaningful constitutional distinctions between the various possible uses of
facial data collected in the public sphere, the Court's identification of the
government's rationale for collecting personal information in the First
Amendment cases could be extrapolated to the Fourth Amendment context. In other
words, if anonymity warrants constitutional protection under the First
Amendment, some requisite showing should be made before the government can
perform a matching that results in monitoring of an individual's activity as a
matter of Fourth Amendment law, as well. n426 Lower courts have held that before
the government can utilize fingerprint evidence gathered from the general
public, it must demonstrate probable cause. If the government cannot show
probable cause, it must at least show an articulable suspicion to believe that
the person committed a criminal offense and that fingerprinting will establish
or negate the person's connection to the offense. n427 FRT should be treated no
differently. n428 Whether fash  [*463]  ioned as probable cause, reasonable
suspicion, or something else, First Amendment doctrine suggests that the
government should have to justify its correlation of FRT data with other
information to form a working profile of citizens who otherwise abide by the
law. n429

    C. The Importance of Choice

    With the exception of Doe, an important distinguishing feature of the First
Amendment anonymity cases is the involvement of legislative attempts to coerce
the disclosure of personal identities. FRT presents a particularly difficult
problem under prevailing constitutional law because most faces are routinely
exposed in public. No domestic law requires that a person's facial features be
unobstructed while she maneuvers about in public places so that the government
can use them for identification purposes. Her visage is there for the
government's taking. Technology has thus become deterministic of personal
privacy today. Yet there is no reciprocal power on the part of individuals to
direct how technology will evolve in relationship  [*464]  to their privacy
interests or even to opt out of its implications for their daily lives.

    The First Amendment anonymity cases and Fourth Amendment doctrine assume
that a person possesses the discretion to take steps to protect communications
or other effects from governmental intrusion--that is, by keeping personal
information private. In the First Amendment context, the Court has upheld
private individuals' ability to choose to keep their identities anonymous in
some respect. Indeed, the fact that the McIntyre plaintiff simultaneously
disclosed her identity in other pamphlets was irrelevant to the Court's analysis
and ultimate conclusion that her choice to remain anonymous was protected by the
First Amendment. n430 In the Fourth Amendment arena, disclosure operates as a
waiver of sorts, but the Court has taken pains to identify how the subject of
police inquiry could have effectively invoked constitutional protections by
keeping information private. In both contexts, the underlying assumption
supporting the Court's analyses of the constitutional guarantee at issue is that
citizens have a choice and--caveat emptor--if they choose public disclosure, the
Constitution cannot save them from the consequences of that choice.

    Facebook's FRT features are active by default. n431 It takes six clicks to
reach a disclosure that Facebook uses FRT. n432 Apple's iPhoto does not have an
opt-out function at all. n433 Currently, there are no laws requiring private
entities to provide individuals with notice that they are collecting personal
data using FRT, how long that data will be stored, whether and how it will be
shared, or how it will be used. n434 Other countries have regulations that give
Internet users control over their own data. n435 In the United States, however,
private companies are free to sell, trade, and profit from individuals'
biometric information. Private companies can also disclose individuals' data to
government authorities without their consent. n436  [*465]

    Fourth and First Amendment law is remarkably consistent in its deference to
the subject's choice to remain anonymous or put information into the public
domain. If people protect their privacy, the Constitution protects it too. In
modern times, the problem with this tautology is that the concept of choice
implies that there is more than one meaningful option. With FRT and other
emerging technologies, there is no mechanism for opting out of the various
sources that are amalgamated into what amounts to surveillance. The theory
behind the Fourth Amendment doctrines that lift its protections for information
disclosed publicly or to third parties is thus unsustainable.

    Accordingly, the recognition of anonymity as a constitutional value that
warrants protection under the First and Fourth Amendments may require "numerous
safeguards" in place for forestalling "indiscriminate disclosure," as Justice
Brennan suggested in Whalen. n437 In his words, whether sophisticated storage
and matching technology "amounts to a deprivation of constitutionally protected
privacy interests" might depend in part on congressional or regulatory
protections put in place to forbid the government's use of big data for
arbitrary monitoring of the populace without individuals' consent. n438 This
will not be easy. Choosing to "opt out" of Google's tracking technologies itself
leaves a trace, and technology exists to "re-identify" people whose personal
identifiers, such as name, address, credit card information, birth date, and
social security number had been removed from a dataset. n439 But constitutional
limits on the government's ability to work around individuals' attempts to
protect their privacy would be an important step toward rescuing the
constitutional value of anonymity before FRT and big data are used to do more
than simply predict who may commit crimes--i.e., to punish people for future
acts. n440  [*466]

    Conclusion

    The writing is on the wall. One day soon, "your phone -- or in some years
your glasses and, in a few more, your contact lenses -- will tell you the name
of that person at the party whose name you always forget . . . . Or it will tell
the stalker in the bar the address where you live," or it will tell the police
where you have been and where you are going. n441 FRT is rapidly moving society
toward a world in which the Constitution's scope needs to be meaningfully
reformulated, else it risks irrelevance when it comes to individuals' ability to
hide from the prying eyes of government. n442 The third party doctrine and the
longstanding judicial rejection of a reasonable expectation of privacy in
matters made public have depleted the Fourth Amendment of vitality for purposes
of establishing constitutional barriers to the government's use of FRT to
profile and monitor individual citizens. Although the Court has expressly
affirmed protections for anonymous speech under the First Amendment, that
doctrine has not been extended to address the harms that flow from dragnet-style
surveillance. Yet every member of the modern Court has at some point recognized
that technology necessitates a rethinking of traditional constitutional
boundaries.

    This Article argued that existing First Amendment protections for anonymity
should be brought to bear in assessing how Fourth Amendment doctrine can adapt
to the challenges of modern surveillance methods. Today, the conglomerate of
publicly available data is colossal and constantly expanding. Technology enables
the government and private companies to identify patterns within such data which
reveal new information that does not exist anywhere in isolation. As a
consequence, information in the digital age is fundamentally distinct from
information in the pre-digital age, in which the Court's Fourth Amendment
doctrine evolved. This Article thus identified constitutionally derived
guidelines for courts and lawmakers to consider in crafting judicial,
legislative, and regulatory responses to the government's newfound capacity to
create new information from storehouses of data gleaned from social media sites,
public cameras, and increasingly sophisticated technologies like FRT. By giving
these guidelines serious consideration, courts and lawmakers can tether
foundational constitutional protections against over-surveillance with the
development of the law--law that is otherwise broken and outdated.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Computer & Internet LawCriminal OffensesSearch & SeizureComputer & Internet
LawPrivacy & SecurityInvasion of PrivacyConstitutional LawBill of
RightsFundamental FreedomsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  The field of biometrics encompasses numerous methodologies for identifying
humans by their biological or behavioral characteristics or traits. See
Biometrics, MERRIAM-WEBSTER.COM,
http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/biometrics (last visited Nov. 16,
2013).




n2  Dana Blanton, Fox News Poll: Mixed Views on NSA Surveillance Program,
FOXNEWS.COM (June 25, 2013),
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2013/06/25/fox-news-poll-mixed-views-on-nsa-surv
eillance-program/.




n3  John W. Whitehead, Smile, the Government Is Watching: Next Generation
Identification, RIGHT SIDE NEWS (Sept. 17, 2012, 12:07 PM),
http://www.rightsidenews.com/2012091717049/editorial/us-opinion-and-editorial/sm
ile-the-government-is-watching-next-generation-identification..




n4  See GEORGE ORWELL, 1984, at 5, 169-70 (New Am. Library 1983) (1949).




n5  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n6  See James Risen, Report Indicates More Extensive Cooperation by Microsoft on
Surveillance, N.Y. TIMES (July 11, 2013),
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/12/us/report-indicates-more-extensive-cooperation
-by-microsoft-on-surveillance.html (reporting on internal NSA documents
indicating that "Microsoft had helped the security agency find ways to
circumvent its encryption on its Outlook.com portal's encrypted Web chat
function," given the agency "access to e-mail," and "provided the F.B.I. with
access to its SkyDrive service").




n7  Whitehead, supra note 3 (discussing surveillance drones and noting that
"police departments across the country are now being equipped with the Mobile
Offender Recognition and Information System, or MORIS, a physical iPhone add-on
that allows officers patrolling the streets to scan the irises and faces of
individuals and match them against government databases"); see also JAY STANLEY
& CATHERINE CRUMP, AM. CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, PROTECTING PRIVACY FROM AERIAL
SURVEILLANCE: RECOMMENDATIONS FOR GOVERNMENT USE OF DRONE AIRCRAFT 6-8 (2011),
available at
http://www.aclu.org/files/assets/protectingprivacyfromaerialsurveillance.pdf;
Carol Cratty, FBI Uses Drones for Surveillance in U.S., CNN.COM (June 20, 2013,
7:27 AM), http://www.cnn.com/2013/06/19/politics/fbi-drones.




n8  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n9  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 351 (1967).




n10  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 443 (1976).




n11  VIKTOR MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & KENNETH CUKIER, BIG DATA: A REVOLUTION THAT
WILL TRANSFORM HOW WE LIVE, WORK, AND THINK 19 (2013).




n12  See Christopher Slobogin, Government Data Mining and the Fourth Amendment,
75 U. CHI. L. REV. 317, 323 (2008).




n13  MYRON BRENTON, THE PRIVACY INVADERS 225 (1964). Justice Brandeis observed
in his Olmstead dissent that "ways may some day be developed by which the
Government, without removing papers from secret drawers, can reproduce them in
court." Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 474 (1928) (Brandeis, J.,
dissenting), overruled in part by Katz, 389 U.S. 347.




n14  DANIEL J. SOLOVE, UNDERSTANDING PRIVACY 5 (2008).




n15  See, e.g., Orin S. Kerr, The Fourth Amendment and New Technologies:
Constitutional Myths and the Case for Caution, 102 MICH. L. REV. 801, 802-04 &
n.7 (2004) (noting that "the view that the Fourth Amendment should be
interpreted broadly in response to technological change has been embraced by
leading theorists of law and technology" and citing numerous law review articles
regarding the same).




n16  Alessandro Acquisti, Privacy and Security of Personal Information: Economic
Incentives and Technological Solutions, in THE ECONOMICS OF INFORMATION SECURITY
179 (L. Jean Camp & Stephen Lewis eds., 2004); see generally SOLOVE, supra note
14, at ix, 1 ("There is no overarching conception of privacy--it must be mapped
like terrain, by painstakingly studying the landscape. . . . Currently, privacy
is a sweeping concept, encompassing (among other things) freedom of thought,
control over one's body, solitude in one's home, control over personal
information, freedom from surveillance, protection of one's reputation, and
protection from searches and interrogations.").




n17  See Daniel J. Solove, A Taxonomy of Privacy, 154 U. PA. L. REV. 477, 483-84
(2006).




n18  Professor Anita Allen distinguishes the two primary usages of the term
"privacy" as, on the one hand, "conditions of restricted access," including
anonymity, physical separation or isolation from others, and information
nondisclosure, and, on the other hand, privacy as liberty--that is, "freedom
from governmental or other outside interference with decisionmaking and conduct,
especially respecting appropriately private affairs." Anita L. Allen, Taking
Liberties: Privacy, Private Choice, and Social Contract Theory, 56 U. CIN. L.
REV. 461, 464-66 (1987) (footnotes omitted); cf. Robert C. Post, Three Concepts
of Privacy, 89 GEO. L.J. 2087, 2092 (2001) (discussing privacy as control of
knowledge, a protector of dignity--which is most relevant to the Fourth
Amendment--and a means of implementing freedom). In this Article, only the
restricted access form of privacy is at issue under Professor Allen's rubric.




n19  See NASA v. Nelson, 131 S. Ct. 746, 751 (2011) ("We assume, without
deciding, that the Constitution protects such a privacy right . . . ."); Nixon
v. Adm'r of Gen. Servs., 433 U.S. 425, 457 (1977) (characterizing such interest
as "one element of privacy"); Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 599-600 (1977)
(noting that the Court's privacy cases have implicated "the individual interest
in avoiding disclosure of personal matters" as well as "the interest in
independence in making certain kinds of important decisions").




n20  Scholars have divided data collection into subcategories, including "tool
data," which encompasses data--such as social security numbers and dates of
birth--that is valued for its utility versus its content; "biographical data,"
which is "the product of . . . behavior in public places" and includes
residence, routines, and friends; and "transactional data," which is information
generated by interactions with professionals such as doctors, accountants, and
lawyers, as well as vendors of goods and services. Susan W. Brenner, The Fourth
Amendment in an Era of Ubiquitous Technology, 75 MISS. L.J. 1, 54 n.247 (2005)
(citing sources).




n21  A third foundational prong of privacy is decisional privacy, or the right
to make fundamental decisions--such as the use of contraception methods--without
governmental interference. See Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, 485
(1965).




n22  Anonymity is a conception of privacy which may be captured in the
literature under different names. Cf. SOLOVE, supra note 14, at ix, 1
(identifying freedom from surveillance as a concept embraced by the term).




n23  Christopher Slobogin, Public Privacy: Camera Surveillance of Public Places
and the Right to Anonymity, 72 MISS. L.J. 213, 238 (2002).




n24  132 S. Ct. 945 (2012).




n25  Id. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (quoting People v. Weaver, 909
N.E.2d 1195, 1199 (N.Y. 2009)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n26  Taken to the extreme, true autonomy is the ability to hide from others
without a trace. It has some positive value, such as in the situation where
government informants assume a new identity for their own protection. It is also
problematic to the extent that it enables wrongdoers to evade responsibility for
their actions. See generally Anne Wells Branscomb, Anonymity, Autonomy, and
Accountability: Challenges to the First Amendment in Cyberspaces, 104 YALE L.J.
1639, 1641-43 (1995). In the online environment, "anonymity can be used to
violate another's privacy." Id. at 1661 (quoting Posting of L. Detweiler,
ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu, to alt.privacy et al. (Sept. 20, 1993),
available at http://www.websteruniv.edu/bumbaugh/net/net-anon.pt2).




n27  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 13.




n28  Tom Gerety, Redefining Privacy, 12 HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 233, 268 (1977).




n29  JEREMY BENTHAM, THE PANOPTICON WRITINGS 35 (Miran Bozovic ed., 1995).




n30  Id. at 31.




n31  See MICHEL FOUCAULT, DISCIPLINE AND PUNISH: THE BIRTH OF THE PRISON 195,
201 (Alan Sheridan trans., 2d ed. 1995) (1977).




n32  Slobogin, supra note 23, at 240.




n33  Jonathan Turley, Registering Publius: The Supreme Court and the Right to
Anonymity, CATO SUP. CT. REV. 2001-2002, at 57, 75-76, 82. Jonathan Turley has
identified six additional benefits of anonymity in the area of free speech: (1)
protecting against persecution for unpopular speech; (2) preventing
disenfranchisement from public debate and participatory politics; (3)
encouraging pluralistic value and thoughts; (4) protecting spontaneous speech
which "is the type of speech that occurs between neighbors"; (5) enhancing
privacy values by enabling people "to separate their personal home life from
their public advocacy"; and (6) protecting Internet speech, in particular, as
the looming "threat of government surveillance" makes the Internet a rare site
of anonymous discourse that can "remain[] raw and uninhibited." Id. at 75-78;
see also id. at 77, 83 (noting that loss of anonymity signifies a loss of
freedom).




n34  Samuel D. Warren & Louis D. Brandeis, The Right to Privacy, 4 HARV. L. REV.
193, 193 (1890).




n35  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 15. The right to be left alone has been critiqued
as too broad in and of itself. Id. at 18. "If privacy simply meant 'being let
alone,' . . . a punch in the nose would be a privacy invasion as much as a peep
in the bedroom." Id. (quoting ANITA L. ALLEN, UNEASY ACCESS: PRIVACY FOR WOMEN
IN A FREE SOCIETY 7 (1988)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n36  William L. Prosser, Privacy, 48 CALIF. L. REV. 383, 389 (1960).




n37  LISA S. NELSON, AMERICA IDENTIFIED: BIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGY AND SOCIETY 94-97
(2011); see also Slobogin, supra note 23, at 273-86 (discussing earlier poll
data on surveillance).




n38  Matthew Tokson, Automation and the Fourth Amendment, 96 IOWA L. REV. 581,
622-29 (2011).




n39  Christopher Slobogin & Joseph E. Schumacher, Reasonable Expectations of
Privacy and Autonomy in Fourth Amendment Cases: An Empirical Look at
"Understandings Recognized and Permitted by Society," 42 DUKE L.J. 727, 737-39
(1993).




n40  Andrew W. Senior & Sharathchandra Pankanti, Privacy Protection and Face
Recognition, in HANDBOOK OF FACE RECOGNITION 671, 672 (Stan Z. Li & Anil K. Jain
eds., 2d ed. 2011).




n41  NELSON, supra note 37, at 174.




n42  Id. at 118.




n43  See id. at 158.




n44  Id. at 157 (citing Robert Putnam, Bowling Together, AM. PROSPECT (Jan. 18,
2002), http://prospect.org/article/bowling-together-0).




n45  Id. at 114-17.




n46  Rob Quinn, Poll: 78% Now OK with More Surveillance Cameras, NEWSER.COM (May
1, 2013),
http://www.newser.com/story/167141/poll-78-now-ok-with-more-surveillance-cameras
.html.




n47  Violet Blue, Why You Should Be Worried About Facial-Recognition Technology,
CNET.COM (Aug. 29, 2012, 1:58 PM),
http://news.cnet.com/8301-10233-57502284-93/why-you-should-be-worried-about-faci
al-recognition-technology/ (citing remarks by Privacy Rights Clearinghouse
Director Beth Givens).




n48  Zeke J Miller, Poll: Americans More Concerned About Civil Liberties in Wake
of Boston Bombing, TIME (May 1, 2013),
http://swampland.time.com/2013/05/01/poll-americans-more-concerned-about-civil-l
iberties-in-wake-of-boston-bombing/.




n49  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 5.




n50  Anecdotally, when asked about privacy and the Internet, "law students
argued strongly in favor of a right to anonymity." Turley, supra note 38, at 75.




n51  JONATHAN FRANZEN, Imperial Bedroom, in HOW TO BE ALONE 39, 40 (2003)
(observing that what is missing in the modern discussion of privacy and
technology is "a genuinely alarmed public").




n52  Brenner, supra note 20, at 41 (citing ROBERT ELLIS SMITH, BEN FRANKLIN'S
WEB SITE: PRIVACY AND CURIOSITY FROM PLYMOUTH ROCK TO THE INTERNET 17, 19
(2000)).




n53  DAVID H. FLAHERTY, PRIVACY IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 76 (1972).




n54  Brenner, supra note 20, at 41 (citing SMITH, supra note 52, at 19-20).
"Even husbands and wives sometimes shared their bedrooms with lodgers or other
members of the family." FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 77. One woman who shared a
bed with an unmarried couple later testified that "the Bed was very Narrow on
which they three were and thinks it almost if not wholly impossible that they
should be guilty of that Crime intercourse without her knowledge and She
observed no such thing." Id. (internal quotation marks omitted).




n55  Brenner, supra note 20, at 40-41 (quoting GINI GRAHAM SCOTT, MIND YOUR OWN
BUSINESS: THE BATTLE FOR PERSONAL PRIVACY 24 (1995)).




n56  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 170. Connecticut law from 1636 read that "no
man that is neither married, nor hath any servant, nor is a publick Officer
shall keep house of himself without consent of the Town where he lives." ANDREW
J. CHERLIN, THE MARRIAGE-GO-ROUND: THE STATE OF MARRIAGE AND THE FAMILY IN
AMERICA TODAY 41 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n57  SMITH, supra note 52, at 10.




n58  Brenner, supra note 20, at 41.




n59  SMITH, supra note 52, at 10; see also CHERLIN, supra note 56, at 41
(explaining, in the verbiage of the times, that selectmen of a Massachusetts
town met in the 1670s "to setel the younge persons in such families in the Town
as is most sutable for thier good" (internal quotation marks omitted)).




n60  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 175; see also CHERLIN, supra note 56, at 41
("In part, these laws reflected the reality that living alone was nearly
impossible in an environment where people needed family members to help them
obtain the food, clothing, and shelter they needed to survive.").




n61  SMITH, supra note 52, at 10.




n62  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 179 ("The residents of seventeenth-century New
England regarded the desire to live alone with suspicion. Morality and the
economic interests of the state were better served if everyone lived in a
family. Yet this was not an expression of total hostility to the value of
privacy. . . . By the latter part of that century experience in America had
shown that it was possible to live alone and not become a burden on the
community.").




n63  Brenner, supra note 20, at 83.




n64  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 115 ("In colonial America, of course,
conversations could only occur in the physical presence of someone else.").




n65  Brenner, supra note 20, at 82-83.




n66  Id. at 83.




n67  Id. (citing WALTER BESANT, LONDON IN THE TIME OF THE STUARTS 53 (1903))
(describing seizure of the "papers" of James Howell, who was a suspected spy).




n68  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 119.




n69  Id. at 120 (quoting Post Office (Revenues) Act, 1710, 9 Ann., c. 11, § 41)
(internal quotation marks omitted).




n70  See SMITH, supra note 52, at 25 ("For letter writers in the Colonial
period, the consequences were serious if their writings were disclosed,
especially if the messages appeared to defy the Crown or to be otherwise
suspicious. . . . To be safe, letter writers developed means for preserving the
confidentiality of their correspondence and codes for disguising their words.");
see also FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 118 ("Others employed codes, shorthand, or
nicknames when writing to friends, particularly on political topics.").




n71  FLAHERTY, supra note 53, at 118.




n72  Michael T. Gibson, The Supreme Court and Freedom of Expression from 1791 to
1917, 55 FORDHAM L. REV. 263, 294 & n.203 (1986).




n73  96 U.S. 727 (1877).




n74  Id. at 733.




n75  Brenner, supra note 20, at 83.




n76  See Thomas Y. Davies, Correcting Search-and-Seizure History: Now-Forgotten
Common-Law Warrantless Arrest Standards and the Original Understanding of "Due
Process of Law," 77 MISS. L.J. 1, 8 (2007).




n77  See Hans A. Linde, State Constitutional Law, in 5 ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE
AMERICAN CONSTITUTION 2495, 2496 (Leonard W. Levy & Kenneth L. Karst eds., 2d
ed. 2000) ("Constitutional entrenchment of individual rights began with the
earliest state constitutions . . . and is universal throughout the states,
though the statements of rights differ. The common tradition includes . . .
freedom from warrantless and unreasonable searches and seizures . . . .").




n78  U.S. CONST. amend. IV ("The right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable
cause . . . .").




n79  California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 217 (1986) (Powell, J., dissenting)
(quoting Johnson v. United States, 333 U.S. 10, 14 (1948)).




n80  United States v. Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1, 7-8 (1977), abrogated by California
v. Acevedo, 500 U.S. 565 (1991).




n81  Id. at 8.




n82  Turley, supra note 33, at 61.




n83  Id. at 58.




n84  See Kurt T. Lash & Alicia Harrison, Minority Report: John Marshall and the
Defense of the Alien and Sedition Acts, 68 OHIO ST. L.J. 435, 438 (2007)
(describing how the Acts allowed for deportations of those considered aliens and
criminalized political opposition to the government).




n85  See id. The statutes lapsed in 1801, after which the Supreme Court declared
that there was no federal jurisdiction over state law criminal charges for
seditious libel. United States v. Hudson, 11 U.S. (7 Cranch) 32, 34 (1812).




n86  514 U.S. 334 (1995).




n87  Id. at 361 (Thomas, J., concurring in the judgment).




n88  Id. at 360; see generally Gregory E. Maggs, A Concise Guide to the
Federalist Papers as a Source of the Original Meaning of the United States
Constitution, 87 B.U. L. REV. 801, 802 (2007).




n89  Victoria Smith Ekstrand, Unmasking Jane and John Doe: Online Anonymity and
the First Amendment, 8 COMM. L. & POL'Y 405, 406 (2003); see also Turley, supra
note 33, at 59.




n90  McIntyre, 514 U.S. at 361 (Thomas, J., concurring in the judgment) (citing
Henry Laurens' Notes of Debate (July 3, 1779), in 13 LETTERS OF DELEGATES TO
CONGRESS 1774-1789, at 139, 141 n.1 (Paul H. Smith et al. eds., 1986)).




n91  Id. at 362 (citing Dwight L. Teeter, Press Freedom and the Public Printing:
Pennsylvania, 1775-83, 45 JOURNALISM Q. 445, 451 (1968)).




n92  Turley, supra note 33, at 59-60 & nn.11-23 (footnotes omitted) (identifying
who actually used these names, where possible).




n93  McIntyre, 514 U.S. at 369 (Thomas, J., concurring) (citing Alexander
Hamilton, Pacificus No. 1, June 29, 1793, in 15 THE PAPERS OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON
33-43 (H. Syrett ed. 1969); James Madison, Helvidius No. 1, Aug. 24, 1793, in
THE PAPERS OF JAMES MADISON 66-73 (Thomas A. Mason, Robert A. Rutland & Jeanne
K. Sisson eds., 1985)); see also id. at 361-62 (Thomas, J., concurring)
(providing additional examples of anonymous speech).




n94  Turley, supra note 33, at 61.




n95  Craig D. Uchida, The Development of the American Police: An Historical
Overview 8 (Dec. 2004) (manuscript), available at
http://storage.globalcitizen.net/data/topic/knowledge/uploads/200904?.pdf.




n96  DANIEL J. SOLOVE & PAUL M. SCHWARTZ, PRIVACY, INFORMATION, AND TECHNOLOGY
85 (2d ed. 2009); see also CLAUDE S. FISCHER, AMERICA CALLING: A SOCIAL HISTORY
OF THE TELEPHONE TO 1940, at 71, 225 (1992).




n97  Warren & Brandeis, supra note 34, at 195.




n98  Brenner, supra note 20, at 32 (citing Ken Gormley, One Hundred Years of
Privacy, 1992 WIS. L. REV. 1335, 1351) (internal quotation marks omitted); see
SMITH, supra note 52, at 124.




n99  VIKRANT VIJ, WIRELESS COMMUNICATION 1-2 (2010).




n100  DENNIS C. TANNER & MATTHEW E. TANNER, FORENSIC ASPECTS OF SPEECH PATTERNS:
VOICE PRINTS, SPEAKER PROFILING, LIE AND INTOXICATION DETECTION 60-61 (2004).




n101  See generally WILLIAM J. HERSCHEL, THE ORIGIN OF FINGER-PRINTING (1916).




n102  SOLOVE & SCHWARTZ, supra note 96, at 85; Erin Murphy, The Politics of
Privacy in the Criminal Justice System: Information Disclosure, the Fourth
Amendment, and Statutory Law Enforcement Exemptions, 111 MICH. L. REV. 485, 508
(2013). In 1934, Congress enacted § 605 of the Federal Communications Act, which
made unauthorized wiretapping a federal crime. Pub. L. No. 416, § 605, 48 Stat.
1064, 1103-04 (1934). Section 605 was amended in 1968 by Title III of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Pub. L. No. 90-351, tit. 3,
82 Stat. 197, 211-25 (1968) (codified at 18 U.S.C.  § § 2510-20 (2006)), and
again in 1986 by the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), Pub. L. No.
99-508, 100 Stat. 1848 (1986) (codified as amended at 18 U.S.C.  § § 2510-2522
(2006)). Under the Wiretap Act, which is part of the ECPA, "courts can authorize
continuing surveillance--24 hours a day for a 30-day period, which can be
extended." DANIEL J. SOLOVE, MARC ROTENBERG & PAUL M. SCHWARTZ, PRIVACY,
INFORMATION, AND TECHNOLOGY 92 (2006).




n103  Melvin Gutterman, A Formulation of the Value and Means Models of the
Fourth Amendment in the Age of Technologically Enhanced Surveillance, 39
SYRACUSE L. REV. 647, 678-79 (1988) (footnotes omitted) (describing a positive
relationship between technological advances in surveillance and intrusion on
privacy).




n104  Id. at 678 n.162.




n105  See Dow Chem. Co. v. United States, 476 U.S. 227, 242-43 & n.4 (1986).




n106  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 4.




n107  Carrie Pixler, Note, Setting the Boundaries of the Census Clause:
Normative and Legal Concerns Regarding the American Community Survey, 18 WM. &
MARY BILL RTS. J. 1097, 1114 & n.118 (2010).




n108  See Passport Applications, NAT'L ARCHIVES,
http://www.archives.gov/research/passport/index.html (last visited Nov. 24,
2013) (citing Act of Aug. 18, 1856, 11 Stat. 52, 60).




n109  See id. (citing Act of May 22, 1918, Pub. L. No. 65-154, 40 Stat. 559; Act
of June 20, 1941, Pub. L. No. 77-113, 55 Stat. 252).




n110  Kent v. Dulles, 357 U.S. 116, 121 (1958) (citing 8 U.S.C.  § 1185).




n111  Urtetiqui v. D'Arcy, 34 U.S. (9 Pet.) 692, 699 (1835).




n112  LAWRENCE H. SELTZER, THE NATURE AND TAX TREATMENT OF CAPITAL GAINS AND
LOSSES 31 (1951).




n113  Revenue Act of 1862, 12 Stat. 432, 473.




n114  U.S. CONST. amend. XVI; see I.R.C.  § 6103(d)(1) (2006) (allowing
disclosure to enforce tax laws); id.  § 6103(h)(4)(D), (i) (authorizing
disclosure by court order).




n115  The First Social Security Number and the Lowest Number, SOC. SECURITY
ADMIN., http://www.ssa.gov/history/ssn/firstcard.html (last visited Nov. 20,
2013).




n116  Brenner, supra note 20, at 54 n.247.




n117  SOLOVE & SCHWARTZ, supra note 96, at 243-44.




n118  42 U.S.C.  § 1437z (2006); Murphy, supra note 102, at 509.




n119  Daniel J. Solove, Access and Aggregation: Public Records, Privacy and the
Constitution, 86 MINN. L. REV. 1137, 1139 (2002).




n120  Murphy, supra note 102, at 510.




n121  This Article does not distinguish between state and local police
departments, national law enforcement agencies, and federal agencies engaged in
national security functions, the last of which raise a host of different legal
and policy issues that are beyond the scope of this piece.




n122  Murphy, supra note 102, at 517-18 (citing various legislative provisions
for court-ordered disclosure of otherwise private information).




n123  See generally David Gray & Danielle Citron, The Right to Quantitative
Privacy, 98 MINN. L. REV. 62 (2013) (explaining that the gathering of
computerized employment, customer, and medical records by private and public
entities began in the 1960s and led to nearly fifty congressional hearings on
data privacy issues); see also infra notes 398-401 and accompanying text
(discussing Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589 (1977), in which the Court recognized a
constitutional interest in avoiding disclosure of personal information).




n124  Murphy, supra note 102, at 511.




n125  See Orin S. Kerr, The Mosaic Theory of the Fourth Amendment, 111 MICH. L.
REV. 311, 325 (2012); see generally Murphy, supra note 102, at 519-20
(discussing federal statutes governing the use of information collected by law
enforcement).




n126  Big Data: The Next Frontier for Innovation, Competition, and Productivity,
MCKINSEY GLOBAL INST.,
http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/mgi/research/technologyandinnovation/bigdatanex
tfrontierforinnovation (last visited Nov. 20, 2013) ("Users of services enabled
by personal-location data could capture $ 600 billion in consumer surplus.").




n127  U.S. CONST. art. II, § 1, cl. 1; id.  § 3. The ability of the President to
provide for national security, for example, is a power derived from the
enumerated powers of Article II, and it often allows the Executive branch
greater access to the personal information of private citizens. See generally
HAROLD HONGJU KOH, THE NATIONAL SECURITY CONSTITUTION: SHARING POWER AFTER THE
IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIR 67-72 (1990) (noting that the Constitution creates three
branches of government and vests them with powers that affect foreign affairs
and national security, but that because "most often, the text simply says
nothing about who controls certain domains . . . [such as] the conduct of covert
action," one must look to constitutional structure, statutes, and custom to
understand the source of such powers).




n128  Goldblatt v. Town of Hempstead, 369 U.S. 590, 594-95 (1962) (quoting
Lawton v. Steele, 152 U.S. 133, 137 (1894)); see also United States v. Morrison,
529 U.S. 598, 618-19 (2000) (observing that the Constitution created a federal
government of limited powers, while reserving a generalized police power to the
states). For a discussion of the origins and meaning of the term, see Santiago
Legarre, The Historical Background of the Police Power, 9 U. PA. J. CONST. L.
745 (2007).




n129  Kenneth Mann, Punitive Civil Sanctions: The Middleground Between Criminal
and Civil Law, 101 YALE L.J. 1795, 1810-11 (1992).




n130  Id. at 1811 n.56.




n131  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 8; see JAMES MANYIKA ET
AL., MCKINSEY GLOBAL INST., BIG DATA: THE NEXT FRONTIER FOR INNOVATION,
COMPETITION, AND PRODUCTIVITY 19 (2011), available at
http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/businesstechnology/bigthenextfrontierforinnovat
ion (click "Full Report" hyperlink).




n132  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 9.




n133  See id. at 9-10.




n134  Id. at 14.




n135  Id. at 11.




n136  Douglas Page, Crime Fighting's Next Big Deal, OFFICER.COM (Sept. 4, 2012),
http://www.officer.com/article/10773317/crime-fightings-next-big-deal.




n137  J. D. Heyes, NSA Social Spy Network Facebook to Use Facial Recognition
Technology to Track Individuals Across Photos, Videos, PRISON PLANET (June 24,
2012, 5:52 AM),
http://www.prisonplanet.com/nsa-social-spy-network-facebook-to-use-facial-recogn
ition-technology-to-track-individuals-across-photos-videos.html.




n138  KNOW PRIVACY, http://www.knowprivacy.org (last visited Nov. 20, 2013).




n139  See United States v. Ganoe, 538 F.3d 1117, 1127 (9th Cir. 2008) (using
peer-to-peer software); United States v. Courtney, No. 4:07CR261 JLH, 2008 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 109344, at *5-6 (E.D. Ark. Sept. 22, 2008) (employing chat rooms,
Internet searches, and social networking sites); United States v. Carter, 549 F.
Supp. 2d 1257, 1259-60 (D. Nev. 2008) (posting to a "hard core child pornography
message board" links to a dummy website to record the IP addresses of users);
see also United States v. Stults, 575 F.3d 834, 838 (8th Cir. 2009) (pinpointing
location using ISP address only); see generally DANIEL J. SOLOVE, THE DIGITAL
PERSON: TECHNOLOGY AND PRIVACY IN THE INFORMATION AGE 169, 175 (2004) ("We are
increasingly seeing collusion, partly voluntary, partly coerced, between the
private sector and the government."); Brandon T. Crowther, Comment,
(Un)Reasonable Expectation of Digital Privacy, 2012 BYU L. REV. 343, 359-60. But
see Martin Kaste, Google Explains How It Handles Police Requests for Users'
Data, NPR (Jan. 28, 2013, 3:34 AM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/01/28/170428992/google-posts-how-it-handles-requests-for
-users-data (reporting that Google recently posted a policy of requiring a
warrant before law enforcement can access certain categories of material,
possibly intended to "make it easier for the company to resist pressure from a
government agency looking for quiet cooperation," as legal requirements for
accessing online content are unclear).




n140  Page, supra note 136; see also Stephen E. Henderson, The Timely Demise of
the Fourth Amendment Third Party Doctrine, 96 IOWA L. REV. BULL. 39, 45 (2011)
("Whole categories of data are stored that never were before. If I wanted to
purchase a book in a time not so distant, I would enter a bookstore, browse in a
practically anonymous fashion, and make my purchase with cash. The bookstore
made no record of my identity other than the fleeting and casual memory of the
store clerk. But today if I want to purchase a book I am likely to do so online,
where not only the bookstore, but also my Internet service provider and payment
provider will make personal records. Indeed, the bookstore might not only record
what books I ultimately purchase, but every book I peruse. And these records are
stored in a digital format that permits, once an architecture has been
established, essentially costless searching and distribution.").




n141  Page, supra note 136; see generally The Science of Civil War: What Makes
Heroic Strife, ECONOMIST (April 21, 2012),
http://www.economist.com/node/21553006 (describing the development of computer
models to predict the outbreak and spread of civil conflict).




n142  See generally Roger Ebert, Review, Minority Report, ROGEREBERT.COM (June
21, 2012), www.rogerebert.com/reviews/minority-report-2002. Person of Interest
is a modern series that is similarly premised on the ability of computers to
predict crimes from data captured through omnipresent surveillance systems. Mary
McNamara, TV Review: 'Person of Interest,' L.A. TIMES (Sept. 22, 2011),
articles.latimes.com/print/2011/sep/22/entertainment/la-et-person-interest-20110
922.




n143  See Joyce W. Luk, Note, Identifying Terrorists: Privacy Rights in the
United States and the United Kingdom, 25 HASTINGS INT'L & COMP. L. REV. 223, 230
(2002).




n144  Antitza Dantcheva et al., Bag of Soft Biometrics for Person
Identification: New Trends and Challenges 6-7 (Jan. 8, 2010) (manuscript),
available at
http://www.eurecom.fr/en/publication/3247/download/mm-publi-32471.pdf.




n145  Luk, supra note 143, at 230.




n146  See Susan McCoy, Comment, O'Big Brother Where Art Thou? The Constitutional
Use of Facial-Recognition Technology, 20 J. MARSHALL J. COMPUTER & INFO. L. 471,
477 (2002).




n147  See id.




n148  See generally Marc Jonathan Blitz, Video Surveillance and the Constitution
of Public Space: Fitting the Fourth Amendment to a World that Tracks Image and
Identity, 82 TEX. L. REV. 1349, 1393 (2004).




n149 " Minority Report" Facial Recognition System Being Installed Across USA by
FBI; Everyone to Be Tracked, INT'L BUS. TIMES (Sept. 17, 2012, 1:04 PM),
http://au.ibtimes.com/articles/384897/20120917/minority-report-facial-recognitio
n-system-being-installed.htm#.UFcJLq6Sm70.




n150  Lucas D. Introna & Helen Nissenbaum, Facial Recognition Technology: A
Survey of Policy and Implementation Issues, CTR. FOR CATASTROPHE PREPAREDNESS &
RESPONSE, 11 (2009).




n151  See Christopher S. Milligan, Note, Facial Recognition Technology, Video
Surveillance, and Privacy, 9 S. CAL. INTERDISC. L.J. 295, 325-26 (1999).




n152  Introna & Nissenbaum, supra note 150, at 12.




n153  See id.




n154  Laura J. Nelson, Instant Facial Recognition Tech a Two-Edged Sword, L.A.
TIMES (Nov. 14, 2012),
http://articles.latimes.com/2012/nov/14/business/la-fi-face-first-20121114.




n155  See, e.g., Visual Casino Suite 6, BIOMETRICA,
http://www.biometrica.com/products.html (last visited Nov. 20, 2013) (corporate
website touting FRT product "Virtual Casino 6" for this purpose); Ellen
Nakashima, From Casinos to Counterterrorism, WASH. POST (Oct. 22, 2007),
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/10/21/AR2007102101522.
html.




n156  Press Release, Artec Grp., Artec ID Unveils Next Generation of Biometric
3D Facial Recognition Technology for High-Traffic Walk Through Identification
Systems at ASIS International (Sept. 10, 2012), available at
http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/artec-id-unveils-next-generation-biometr
ic?d-facial-recognition-technology-high-traffic-1699489.htm.




n157  Jim Spencer, Facial Recognition: They Know Who You Are, STAR TRIBUNE (last
updated Aug. 17, 2012, 5:20 PM),
http://www.startribune.com/business/166593666.html?refer=y (quoting a marketing
director).




n158  Sarah Perez, Following Facebook's Shut Down of Face.com's Facial
Recognition API, Lambda Labs Debuts an Open Source Alternative, TECHCRUNCH.COM
(Sept. 4, 2012),
http://techcrunch.com/2012/09/04/following-facebooks-shut-down-of-face-coms-faci
al-recognition-api-lambda-labs-debuts-an-open-source-alternative/.




n159  See SceneTap: The Creepy App that Scans Bar-Goers' Faces, THE WEEK (May
23, 2012),
http://theweek.com/article/index/228281/scenetap-the-creepy-app-that-scans-bar-g
oers-faces.




n160  Sarah Freishtat, Just a Face in a Crowd? Scans Pick up ID, Personal Data,
WASH. TIMES (July 26, 2012),
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/jul/26/just-a-face-in-a-crowd-scans-pic
k-up-id-personal-d/?page=all.




n161  See Somini Sengupta & Kevin J. O'Brien, Facebook Can ID Faces, but Using
Them Grows Tricky, N.Y. TIMES (Sept. 21, 2012),
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/22/technology/facebook-backs-down-on-face-recogni
tion-in-europe.html?r=0 (noting that the developer Redpepper has stated that
"users would have to authorize the application to pull their most recent tagged
photographs"); Whitehead, supra note 3 ("A new Facebook application, Facedeals,
is being tested . . . which enables businesses to target potential customers
with specialized offers.").




n162  Alessandro Acquisti, Ralph Gross & Fred Stutzman, Presentation, Faces of
Facebook: Privacy in the Age of Augmented Reality (Aug. 4, 2011), available at
http://www.blackhat.com/docs/webcast/acquisti-face-BH-Webinar-2012-out.pdf.




n163  Bob Sullivan, Researchers Say They Can Guess Your SSN, NBCNEWS.COM (July
6, 2009, 7:59 PM),
http://www.nbcnews.com/technology/researchers-say-they-can-guess-your-ssn-6C1040
6565.




n164  Craig Timberg & Ellen Nakashima, State Photo-ID Databases Become Troves
for Police, WASH. POST (June 16, 2013),
http://articles.washingtonpost.com/2013-06-16/business/40012903?databases-facial
-recognition-systems-searches.




n165  Mariel Myers, Boston Bombings: How Facial Recognition Can Cut
Investigation Time to Seconds, CNET.COM (April 18, 2013, 5:56 PM),
http://news.cnet.com/8301-10093-57580367-83/boston-bombings-how-facial-recogniti
on-can-cut-investigation-time-to-seconds/.




n166  Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 164.




n167  Id.




n168  Id.




n169  Id. The software of a single private contractor, MorphoTrust USA, operates
in most government FRT systems. Id.




n170  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n171  Jesus Diaz, FBI's Sinister New $ 1 Billion Project Will Track Everyone by
Their Face, GIZMODO (Sept. 10, 2012, 1:44 PM),
http://gizmodo.com/5941926/fbis-sinister-new-1-billion-project-will-track-everyo
ne-by-their-face. In August 2012, the New York Police Department ("NYPD")
partnered with Microsoft to launch what it calls a "Domain Awareness System,"
which analyzes data collected from 3,000 closed-circuit video cameras, records
of 911 calls, license plate readers, historical crime reports, and radiation
sensors throughout the city. The NYPD can now instantly track where a particular
vehicle has been in recent days or weeks, pull up the driver's arrest records
and related 911 calls, and map his criminal history "to geospacially and
chronologically reveal crime patterns." Page, supra note 136.




n172  Darlene Storm, Undercover Cops Secretly Use Smartphones, Face Recognition
to Spy on Crowds, COMPUTERWORLD (Sept. 18, 2012, 12:50 PM),
http://blogs.computerworld.com/privacy/21010/undercover-cops-secretly-use-smartp
hones-face-recognition-spy-crowds.




n173  Id. Older video cameras did not have the resolution or connectivity to
work with FRT. Diaz, supra note 171.




n174  Storm, supra note 172 (quoting Josh Smith, Undercover Police Used
Smartphones to Keep Tabs on Protests in Tampa, NAT'L J. (Sept. 17, 2012),
http://www.nationaljournal.com/tech/used-to-monitor-tampa-protests-20120917)
(internal quotation marks omitted).




n175  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n176  Id.




n177  Id.; see David Jeffers, FBI Rolling Out High-Tech 'Big Brother' Monitoring
System, PC WORLD (Sept. 10, 2012, 6:58 AM),
http://www.pcworld.com/article/262071/fbirollingouthightechbrothermonitoringsyst
em.html. In 2002, it was reported that the Department of Defense was similarly
developing a Total Information Awareness project that would consist of a huge
database of personal financial, educational, health, and travel information
about individuals, obtained from private sector companies. In response to a
public outcry, Congress voted to deny funding for the initiative. Shannon R.
Anderson, Total Information Awareness and Beyond: The Dangers of Data Mining
Technology to Prevent Terrorism, BILL OF RTS. DEF. COMM., 3 (July 26, 2004),
http://www.bordc.org/data-mining.pdf.




n178  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n179  Id.




n180  The FBI claims not to be mining such data at this time. See Eric
Lichtblau, F.B.I. Data Mining Reached Beyond Initial Targets, N.Y. TIMES (Sept.
9, 2007),
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/09/washington/09fbi.html?pagewanted=all. With an
FRT search from his smartphone, a detective in Carlisle, Pa., recently
identified a suspect by linking a Facebook image with a mug shot database.
Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 166.




n181  Sengupta & O'Brien, supra note 161.




n182  Hearing on "What Facial Recognition Technology Means for Privacy and Civil
Liberties," Before the Subcomm. on Privacy, Tech. and the Law of the S.
Judiciary Comm., 112th Cong. 1 (2012) (questions for the record from Sen. Al
Franken for Rob Sherman), available at
http://www.judiciary.senate.gov/resources/transcripts/upload/071812QFRs-Sherman.
pdf.




n183  Data Use Policy, FACEBOOK, https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy/other
(last visited Nov. 20, 2013).




n184  Glenn Greenwald & Ewen MacAskill, NSA Prism Program Taps in to User Data
of Apple, Google and Others, GUARDIAN (June 6, 2013),
http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2013/jun/06/us-tech-giants-nsa-data. Section 702
of the FISA Amendments Act, 50 U.S.C.  § 1881a, authorizes
intelligence-gathering on non-U.S. citizens for up to a year and has been cited
by Director of National Intelligence James Clapper as the legal authority for
the Prism program. Sam Stein, PRISM Program: Obama Administration Held 22
Briefings for Congress on Key FISA Law, HUFFINGTON POST (June 10, 2013, 4:01
PM), http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/06/10/prism-program-obaman3416973.html.




n185  Danielle Keats Citron & David Gray, Addressing the Harm of Total
Surveillance: A Reply to Professor Neil Richards, 126 HARV. L. REV. F. 262, 264
(2013).




n186  See Press Release, Iowa State Univ., Iowa State Professor Weighs Benefit
vs. Risk of Facial Recognition Technology (May 8, 2013), available at
http://www.news.iastate.edu/news/2013/05/08/.




n187  See Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 166 ("The increasingly widespread
deployment of the technology in the United States has helped police find
murderers, bank robbers and drug dealers, many of whom leave behind images on
surveillance videos or social-media sites that can be compared against official
photo databases.").




n188  Id. At this point, "an affidavit for a warrant could then be automatically
generated, electronically signed and forwarded to a judge. Once granted,
investigators could use a code to enter an encrypted portal to the telephone
service provider and get GPS coordinates that lead right to the suspect." Page,
supra note 136.




n189  See Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1987 (2013) (Scalia, J.,
dissenting) ("Fingerprints of arrestees are taken primarily to identify them
(though that process sometimes solves crimes) . . . .").




n190  See generally id. (discussing the distinction between fingerprinting and
DNA analysis for purposes of solving crimes versus verifying identities).




n191  Timberg & Nakashima, supra note 166.




n192  Id.




n193  Id.




n194  Id. In the European Union, Facebook turned off its FRT after regulators
deemed it a threat to privacy. Chris Smith, Facebook Turns Off Facial
Recognition Tech in EU, TECHRADAR.COM (Sept. 22, 2012),
http://www.techradar.com/us/news/internet/web/facebook-turns-off-facial-recognit
ion-tech-in-eu-1099104; see also Sengupta & O'Brien, supra note 161 (noting that
Facebook also agreed to "delete the data used to identify Facebook users by
their pictures"); Blue, supra note 47 (discussing actions by other EU
countries). A Washington, D.C., advocacy group has filed a complaint against
Facebook with the Federal Trade Commission over its tagging feature. Sengupta &
O'Brien, supra note 161.




n195  Spencer, supra note 157.




n196  Whitehead, supra note 3.




n197  JOHN VACCA, BIOMETRIC TECHNOLOGIES AND VERIFICATION SYSTEMS 376 (2007).




n198  Id.




n199  Introna & Nissenbaum, supra note 150, at 3, 18, 38-39.




n200  Richa Singh, Mayank Vatsa & Afzel Noore, Recognizing Face Images with
Disguise Variations 149, 151, 156 (June 1, 2008) (manuscript), available at
http://cdn.intechopen.com/pdfs/5898/InTech-Recognizingfaceimageswithdisguisevari
ations.pdf.




n201  Madison Ruppert, FBI Sharing Facial Recognition Software with Police
Departments Across America, END THE LIE (Aug. 24, 2012),
http://endthelie.com/2012/08/24/fbi-sharing-facial-recognition-software-with-pol
ice-departments-across-america/#axzz2fwTGPWgr. The FBI has indicated that only
authorized law enforcement agencies have access to its data, which does not
currently include photos from social media sites. Critics claim, however, that
the FBI does intend to search social media sites with FRT technology. Kathleen
Hickey, FBI to Open Facial Recognition Searches to Police Nationwide, GCN.COM
(Aug. 20, 2012),
http://gcn.com/articles/2012/08/20/fbi-facial-recognition-software-open-to-polic
e.aspx.




n202  The sole purpose of the creation of social security numbers, for example,
was to facilitate record keeping and determine the amount of social security
taxes to credit to each contributor's account. By 1961, however, the IRS began
using social security numbers for tax identification purposes. See Bijon Roy, A
Case Against Biometric National Identification Systems (NIDS): "Trading-Off"
Privacy Without Getting Security, 19 WINDSOR REV. LEGAL & SOC. ISSUES 45, 75-76
(2005); see also Tom Cheshire, 25 Big Ideas for 2012: Ubiquitous Face
Recognition, WIRED (Jan. 9, 2012, 9:22 AM),
http://www.wired.com/business/2012/01/ubiquitous-face-recognition (noting that
there are concerns over FRT mission creep and quoting a security technology
expert as saying that "recognizing people in photographs works well . . . but
attempts to pick terrorists out of crowds have failed, resulting in systems that
do a great job surveilling innocents and a terrible job identifying the guilty"
(internal quotation marks omitted)).




n203  PEW RESEARCH CENTER, PUBLIC SAYS INVESTIGATE TERRORISM, EVEN IF IT
INTRUDES ON PRIVACY: MAJORITY VIEWS NSA PHONE TRACKING AS ACCEPTABLE ANTI-TERROR
TACTIC 1 (2013), available at
http://www.people-press.org/files/legacy-pdf/06-10-13%20PRC%20WP%20%?20Release.p
df (reporting that, as of June 2013, 56 percent of Americans believe that Prism
is an acceptable way for the government to investigate terrorism).




n204  Many cities have begun equipping buses with security cameras. William
Neuman, Equipment Problems Delay Plan for Cameras on Buses, N.Y. TIMES (March
29, 2007), http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/29/nyregion/29bus.html?r=0.




n205  ANITA L. ALLEN, UNPOPULAR PRIVACY: WHAT MUST WE HIDE? 17 (2011) (quoting
Daniel J. Solove, Privacy and Power: Computer Databases and Metaphors for
Information Privacy, 53 STAN. L. REV. 1393, 1418 (2001)) (internal quotation
marks omitted). In 1897, a study found that the presence of other riders caused
cyclists to pedal faster. Matthew Lynch, Closing the Orwellian Loophole: The
Present Constitutionality of Big Brother and the Potential for a First Amendment
Cure, 5 FIRST AMENDMENT L. REV. 234, 271 & n.136 (2007) (citing Norman Triplett,
The Dynamogenic Factors in Pacemaking and Competition, 9 AM. J. PSYCHOL. 507,
533 (1898)); see also Slobogin, supra note 23, at 242-47, 251 (describing
empirical research on the effects of being watched).




n206  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 57.




n207  Solove, supra note 17, at 494.




n208  Jeffrey Rosen, The Purposes of Privacy: A Response, 89 GEO. L.J. 2117,
2122 (2001).




n209  See Slobogin, supra note 23, at 217; infra Part II.B (discussing FRT and
the First Amendment).




n210  Carla Scherr, Note, You Better Watch Out, You Better Not Frown, New Video
Surveillance Techniques Are Already in Town (and Other Public Spaces), 3 I/S:
J.L. & POL'Y FOR INFO. SOC'Y 499, 505 (2007) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n211  Solove, supra note 17, at 555.




n212  Id. at 536-37.




n213  Id. at 508-09, 523; cf. id. at 509 (discussing United States Department of
Justice v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, 489 U.S. 749 (1989), in
which the Supreme Court found that disclosure of FBI rap sheets containing
aggregated information--otherwise public--violated a privacy exemption of the
Freedom of Information Act).




n214  Id. at 507.




n215  Id. at 508-09, 523.




n216  See Danielle Keats Citron, Technological Due Process, 85 WASH. U. L. REV.
1249, 1274 (2008).




n217  See Ken Dilanian & Janet Stobart, White House OKd Spying on Allies, U.S.
Intelligence Officials Say, L.A. TIMES (Oct. 28, 2013, 7:25 PM),
http://www.latimes.com/world/la-fg-spying-phones-20131029,0,3235295.story#axzz2j
EB9FaoQ.




n218  See The 'Big Data' Revolution: How Number Crunchers Can Predict Our Lives,
NPR.ORG (Mar. 7, 2013, 3:00 AM),
http://www.npr.org/2013/03/07/173176488/the-big-data-revolution-how-number-crunc
hers-can-predict-our-lives (reporting that law enforcement is already engaged in
predictive policing).




n219  See Estelle v. Williams, 425 U.S. 501, 503 (1976) ("The right to a fair
trial is a fundamental liberty secured by the Fourteenth Amendment. The
presumption of innocence, although not articulated in the Constitution, is a
basic component of a fair trial under our system of criminal justice." (citation
omitted)).




n220  U.S. CONST. amend. I.




n221  U.S. CONST. amend. III.




n222  U.S. CONST. amend. IV.




n223  U.S. CONST. amend. V. Although the Fifth Amendment protects against
compelled testimonial incrimination, it does not apply to compulsory
fingerprinting, photographing, taking measurements, writing or speaking for
identification purposes, having bodily fluids drawn, or DNA evidence because
they are not evidence of a communicative or testimonial nature. See Schmerber v.
California, 384 U.S. 757, 760-61, 764 (1966); Shaffer v. Saffle, 148 F.3d 1180,
1181 (10th Cir. 1998). FRT is capable of more than simply identifying a person's
face. It can be used to identify an individual as being at a specific location
at a specific time. The Fifth Amendment, however, does not limit the
government's collection of FRT data from private sources, or its subsequent use
of FRT for identification and surveillance of individuals. The Supreme Court has
repeatedly stated that "a party incriminated by evidence produced by a third
party sustains no violation of his own Fifth Amendment rights." Cal. Bankers
Ass'n v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 55 (1974) (citing additional cases). Hence, the
Fifth Amendment does not protect against subpoenas for a person's records and
papers held by third parties. Couch v. United States, 409 U.S. 322, 328, 333-35
(1973).




n224  381 U.S. 479 (1965).




n225  See generally Neil M. Richards, The Information Privacy Law Project, 94
GEO. L.J. 1087, 1089 (2006) (book review) ("Decisional privacy is usually
defined as the right of individuals to make certain kinds of fundamental choices
with respect to their personal and reproductive autonomy . . . .").




n226  Griswold, 381 U.S. at 484; see also Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 599 n.25
(1977) (quoting Griswold in Fourth Amendment case); Cal. Bankers, 416 U.S. at
78-79 (Powell, J., concurring) ("Financial transactions can reveal much about a
person's activities, associations, and beliefs. At some point, governmental
intrusion upon these areas would implicate legitimate expectations of
privacy."). In subsequent decisions, the privacy right has come to encompass
matters such as child rearing, procreation, and termination of medical treatment
as a matter of due process. Bowers v. Hardwick, 478 U.S. 186, 190 (1986),
overruled by Lawrence v. Texas, 539 U.S. 558 (2003).




n227  Griswold, 381 U.S. at 484 (quoting U.S. CONST. amend. IV) (internal
quotation marks omitted).




n228  Blitz, supra note 148, at 1381.




n229  Schmerber v. California, 384 U.S. 757, 767 (1966).




n230  367 U.S. 643 (1961).




n231  Id. at 656.




n232  See supra note 223.




n233  Mapp, 367 U.S. at 657 (quoting Feldman v. United States, 322 U.S. 487,
489-90 (1944), overruled in part by Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of N.Y. Harbor,
378 U.S. 52, 74-75 (1964)).




n234  See, e.g., Gutterman, supra note 103, at 651 (arguing that "fourth
amendment jurisprudence will be best served by adhering to a 'value-dominated
model' that is capable of reconciling the competing privacy interests with
modern technological surveillance"); Kerr, supra note 125, at 311 (analyzing a
"'mosaic theory' of the Fourth Amendment, by which courts evaluate a collective
sequence of government activity as an aggregated whole to consider whether the
sequence amounts to a search").




n235  See Susan W. Brenner, Law in an Era of Pervasive Technology, 15 WIDENER
L.J. 667, 669 (2006) (characterizing twenty-first century "pervasive technology"
as the "antithesis of context-specific technologies such as rail transportation"
and observing that "the goal and practice of pervasive technology is to
integrate sophisticated interactive technologies into the fabric of our daily
lives").




n236  See, e.g., Dow Chem. Co. v. United States, 476 U.S. 227, 239 (1986)
(concluding the Fourth Amendment analysis when aerial surveillance was found not
to be a search).




n237  Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 361 (1967) (Harlan, J., concurring).




n238  Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 31-33 (2001).




n239  California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 211 (1986).




n240  Hale v. Henkel, 201 U.S. 43, 76 (1906), overruled in part on other grounds
by Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n of N.Y. Harbor, 378 U.S. 52, 69 (1964); see also
2 WAYNE R. LAFAVE, SEARCH AND SEIZURE § 4.13(a) (5th ed. 2012) ("Although the
Supreme Court has stated in dicta that the Fourth Amendment continues to limit
the subpoena power of the government, the Court has rejected Fourth Amendment
objections to subpoenas in every case it has decided in modern times." (footnote
omitted)).




n241  Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968). Reasonable suspicion is a lower
standard than probable cause; it requires "specific and articulable facts which,
taken together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant
that intrusion." Id. at 22.




n242  Ferguson v. City of Charleston, 532 U.S. 67, 74 n.7 (2001).




n243  Skinner v. Ry. Labor Execs.' Ass'n, 489 U.S. 602, 633-34 (1989)
(employment); New Jersey v. T.L.O., 469 U.S. 325 (1985) (schools).




n244  Whren v. United States, 517 U.S. 806, 811 n.2 (1996).




n245  Samson v. California, 547 U.S. 843, 850 (2006); see generally Rachael A.
Lynch, Note, Two Wrongs Don't Make a Fourth Amendment Right: Samson Court Errs
in Choosing Proper Analytical Framework, Errs in Result, Parolees Lose Fourth
Amendment Protection, 41 AKRON L. REV. 651, 669-70 (2008) (noting that "parolees
have an expectation of privacy somewhere between that of a probationer and a
prisoner" (footnote omitted)).




n246  An originalist might interpret the Constitution to argue that no general
right to privacy exists beyond the specific Bill of Rights guarantees because,
among other reasons, no such right is expressed in the plain language of the
Constitution. See Peter J. Smith, How Different Are Originalism and
Non-Originalism?, 62 HASTINGS L.J. 707, 711 (2011).




n247  277 U.S. 438 (1928), overruled in part by Katz v. United States, 389 U.S.
347 (1967).




n248  Id. at 478 (Brandeis, J., dissenting).




n249  116 U.S. 616 (1886).




n250  Id. at 630; see generally Margaret Jane Radin, Property and Personhood, 34
STAN. L. REV. 957, 998 (1982) (construing Boyd as treating property as
coextensive with personal privacy under the Fourth Amendment).




n251  389 U.S. 347 (1967).




n252  Id. at 353.




n253  Id. at 351.




n254  Id. at 353.




n255  Id. at 350.




n256  See, e.g., Doe v. Bolton, 410 U.S. 179, 213 (1973) (Douglas, J.,
concurring) ("The right of privacy . . . includes the privilege of an individual
to plan his own affairs, for, ' "outside areas of plainly harmful conduct, every
American is left to shape his own life as he thinks best, do what he pleases, go
where he pleases." '" (citation omitted) (quoting Kent v. Dulles, 357 U.S. 116,
126 (1958))); Eisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438, 453 n.10 (1972) (quoting
Stanley v. Georgia, 394 U.S. 557, 564 (1969)); Stanley, 394 U.S. at 564 ("Also
fundamental is the right to be free, except in very limited circumstances, from
unwanted governmental intrusions into one's privacy."); Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385
U.S. 374, 413 (1967) (Fortas, J., dissenting) ("[The right to privacy] is,
simply stated, the right to be let alone; to live one's life as one chooses,
free from assault, intrusion or invasion except as they can be justified by the
clear needs of community living under a government of law.").




n257  Katz, 389 U.S. at 351.




n258  New York v. Class, 475 U.S. 106, 114 (1986).




n259  Smith v. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735, 744 (1979).




n260  California v. Greenwood, 486 U.S. 35, 43 (1988).




n261  United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276, 281 (1983).




n262  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 953 (2012); see generally Douglas
A. Fretty, Face-Recognition Surveillance: A Moment of Truth for Fourth Amendment
Rights in Public Places, 16 VA. J.L. & TECH. 430, 441 (2011) (analyzing FRT
under Fourth Amendment law and suggesting that "government agencies have a
strong argument . . . that where people lack an expectation of not being
observed, they equally lack an expectation of not being recognized"); Scherr,
supra note 210, at 508 (arguing that video surveillance of actions within plain
view is not covered by the Fourth Amendment); Alexander T. Nguyen, Comment,
Here's Looking at You, Kid: Has Face-Recognition Technology Completely
Outflanked the Fourth Amendment?, VA. J.L. & TECH., Spring 2002, at 1, 7
(arguing that the Fourth Amendment "seems useless" in the context of FRT).




n263  See California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 213 (1986) (noting that officers
can make observations from public vantage points).




n264  Maryland v. King, 133 S. Ct. 1958, 1986 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting)
(quoting Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 360 (1967) (Harlan, J.,
concurring)) (citing Florida v. Jardines, 133 S. Ct. 1409, 1413-14 (2013)).




n265  542 U.S. 177 (2004).




n266  Id. at 191.




n267  Id.




n268  Id. at 196 (Stevens, J., dissenting).




n269  By 2017, it is expected that 665 million smartphones and tablets will have
FRT. Spencer, supra note 157.




n270  U.S. CONST. amend. XIII. There are also relatively rare exceptions under
the state action doctrine. See generally Gillian E. Metzger, Privatization as
Delegation, 103 COLUM. L. REV. 1367, 1412 (2003) (describing state action
doctrine).




n271  Olmstead v. United States, 277 U.S. 438, 478 (1928) (Brandeis, J.,
dissenting), overruled in part by Katz v. United States, 389 U.S. 347, 353
(1967).




n272  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 443 (1976) (citing United States v.
White, 401 U.S. 745, 752 (1971) (plurality opinion); Hoffa v. United States, 385
U.S. 293, 302 (1966); Lopez v. United States, 373 U.S. 427 (1963)).




n273  White, 401 U.S. at 748-49; see also Hoffa, 385 U.S. at 302 (no Fourth
Amendment protection for conversations with a colleague who turns out to be a
government agent); Lewis v. United States, 385 U.S. 206, 210 (1966) (same
regarding interactions with secret agent sent by the government to purchase
narcotics from defendant); Lopez, 373 U.S. at 437 (same regarding agent's use of
electronic recording equipment).




n274  White, 401 U.S. at 752; see generally Orin S. Kerr, The Case for the Third
Party Doctrine, 107 MICH. L. REV. 561, 566-70 (2009) (discussing cases and
arguing in favor of third party doctrine as it "ensures technological neutrality
of the Fourth Amendment by blocking the opportunistic use of third parties to
circumvent the basic balance of Fourth Amendment rules" and because it "is
needed to provide ex ante clarity"). Compare Henderson, supra note 140, at 44
(responding to Professor Kerr and arguing that the third party doctrine is
arbitrary), with Tokson, supra note 38, at 581 (arguing that information
provided only to automated systems does not result in a loss of privacy under
the third party doctrine).




n275  Smith v. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735, 741, 743 (1979).




n276  Couch v. United States, 409 U.S. 322, 335-36 (1973).




n277  Cal. Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 52 (1974).




n278  Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 602 (1977).




n279  United States v. Miller, 425 U.S. 435, 442-43 (1976); see also United
States v. Payner, 447 U.S. 727, 731-32 (1980) (criminal defendant had no
standing to suppress documents illegally seized from a bank officer's briefcase
because he had no privacy interest in them).




n280  Junichi P. Semitsu, From Facebook to Mug Shot: How the Dearth of Social
Networking Privacy Rights Revolutionized Online Government Surveillance, 31 PACE
L. REV. 291, 338 (2011) (citing cases).




n281  See, e.g., United States v. Perrine, 518 F.3d 1196, 1204 (10th Cir. 2008);
see generally Semitsu, supra note 280, at 338 n.186 (citing cases). But see
Warshak v. United States, 490 F.3d 455, 473 (6th Cir. 2007) (holding that a
sender of electronic mail has a reasonable expectation of privacy in messages
residing with an ISP), vacated in part, 532 F.3d 521 (6th Cir. 2008).




n282  Texas v. Brown, 460 U.S. 730, 739-40 (1983) (plurality opinion); cf.
United States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696, 707 (1983) (finding no Fourth Amendment
barrier to the "sui generis" use of a drug-sniffing police dog).




n283  California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 213-14 (1986).




n284  Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 33, 40 (2001). As Katz itself
arguably falls into this category, the pre-digital and digital distinction is
not a hard and fast one; it is simply offered as a way of understanding how
Fourth Amendment doctrine must adapt to technology.




n285  533 U.S. 27 (2001).




n286  Florida v. Jardines, 133 S. Ct. 1409, 1425 (2013) (Alito, J., dissenting).
Chief Justice Roberts, along with Justices Kennedy and Breyer, joined the
dissent. Justice Kagan suggested that Kyllo governed. Id. at 1419 (Kagan, J.,
concurring).




n287  133 S. Ct. 1409 (2013).




n288  Id. at 1417 (quoting Kyllo, 533 U.S. at 40) (internal quotation marks
omitted).




n289  Id. at 1416-17.




n290  130 S. Ct. 2619 (2010).




n291  Id. at 2629-30.




n292  Id. at 2629.




n293  Id. at 2629-30. Only Justice Scalia declined to join in this sentiment,
although he did acknowledge that "applying the Fourth Amendment to new
technologies may sometimes be difficult." Id. at 2635 (Scalia, J., concurring in
part and concurring in the judgment).




n294  132 S. Ct. 945 (2012).




n295  Id. at 949. In reaching its holding, the majority thus undermined the
staying power of Katz's reasonable-expectation-of-privacy formulation for what
constitutes a Fourth Amendment search.




n296  Id.




n297  460 U.S. 276 (1983).




n298  Id. at 281. Similarly, in Florida v. Jardines, 133 S. Ct. 1409, 1416
(2013), Justice Scalia utilized an implied license theory to find that the use
of a drug-sniffing dog on a front porch of a home was a Fourth Amendment
violation--rather than the established rule that "with few exceptions, the
question whether a warrantless search of a home is reasonable and hence
constitutional must be answered no." Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 31
(2001).




n299  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 953.




n300  Id. at 954. Justice Powell similarly warned in his Ciraolo dissent that
"technological advances have enabled police to see people's activities and
associations, and to hear their conversations, without being in physical
proximity." California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S. 207, 218 (1986) (Powell, J.,
dissenting).




n301  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring).




n302  Id. at 964 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment).




n303  Id. at 955 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (citations omitted); see also id.
at 962-94 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment).




n304  Id. at 955-56 (Sotomayor, J., concurring).




n305  Id. at 956 (quoting Illinois v. Lidster, 540 U.S. 419, 426 (2004)). FRT is
even more probative than GPS tracking, as it can be immediately associated with
a trove of online personal data, including browsing and buying habits and
intimate communications with people who would not be identified with a GPS
device.




n306  Id. (quoting United States v. Di Re, 332 U.S. 581, 595 (1948)).




n307  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 957.




n308  Id.




n309  Id. at 958 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment) (alteration in
original) (quoting Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 950 (majority opinion)) (internal
quotation marks omitted).




n310  Id.




n311  Id. at 961.




n312  Id. at 964.




n313  Jones, 132 S. Ct. at 963.




n314  133 S. Ct. 1958 (2013).




n315  Id. at 1965.




n316  Id.




n317  Id. at 1968.




n318  King v. State, 42 A.3d 549, 581 (Md. 2012), rev'd, 133 S. Ct. 1958.




n319  King, 133 S. Ct. at 1965-66.




n320  Id. at 1971-72.




n321  Id. at 1973 (quoting MD. R. 4-216(f)(1)(C)) (internal quotation marks
omitted).




n322  Id. at 1971-72.




n323  Id. at 1972-73.




n324  Id. at 1978.




n325  King, 133 S. Ct. at 1979.




n326  Id. at 1980 (second alteration in original) (quoting NASA v. Nelson, 131
S. Ct. 746, 750 (2011)) (citing MD. CODE ANN., PUB. SAFETY § § 2-505(b)(1),
2-512(c) (LexisNexis 2011)).




n327  Id. at 1980 (Scalia, J., dissenting).




n328  Id. at 1982-83 (internal quotation marks omitted).




n329  Id. at 1980.




n330  Id. at 1983.




n331  King, 133 S. Ct. at 1980-81.




n332  Id. at 1984.




n333  Id. at 1989.




n334  Id.




n335  Id.




n336  As Justice Sotomayor suggested in Jones, the use of FRT and other
technologies for identifying and tracking people may well give rise to a First
Amendment claim in the appropriate case. See United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct.
945, 956 (2012) (Sotomayor, J., concurring). The aim of this Article is not to
outline or further define whether a justiciable First Amendment case can be
brought to limit the use of FRT for surveillance. Rather, it is to explore the
intersection of First Amendment cases involving anonymous speech and Fourth
Amendment privacy doctrine in the hopes of identifying a reinvigorated role for
the Constitution in limiting the application of new technologies to public or
third-party information for unprecedented surveillance. Arguably, the thesis has
substantive due process implications. It also raises important questions
regarding which branch of government is poised to enforce the constitutional
values espoused here. These issues are beyond the scope of this Article. The
Article more narrowly concludes that the anonymity value embodied in First
Amendment protections must be brought to bear in evolving Fourth Amendment
doctrine as well as legislative and regulatory responses to the privacy threats
posed by FRT and other technologies for surveillance, and it outlines
substantive guidelines for consideration in these efforts.




n337  U.S. CONST. amend. I (prohibiting the making of any "law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or
abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people
peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of
grievances").




n338  McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U.S. 334, 342 (1995) ("An author's
decision to remain anonymous, like other decisions concerning omissions or
additions to the content of a publication, is an aspect of the freedom of speech
protected by the First Amendment."). While anonymous speech is protected,
legislatures and courts have attempted to distinguish between "expressive"
anonymity and anonymity used in the furtherance of criminal activity (or as a
crime itself), referred to as "functional" anonymity. Though it is sometimes
difficult to draw a bright line between the two, courts generally find that the
latter does not warrant First Amendment protection. See Margot Kaminski, Real
Masks and Real Name Policies: Applying Anti-Mask Case Law to Anonymous Online
Speech, 23 FORDHAM INTELL. PROP. MEDIA & ENT. L.J. 815, 817-18 (2013).




n339  362 U.S. 60 (1960).




n340  Id. at 60-61 (citing L.A., CAL., MUN. CODE § 28.06 (1960)).




n341  Id. at 64-65; see also Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U.S. 479, 487-88 (1960)
(striking down as overly broad state statute requiring public school teachers to
file affidavits giving names of organizations to which they had belonged or
contributed within the preceding five years as a condition of employment). But
see New York ex rel. Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U.S. 63 (1928) (upholding state's
enforcement of membership disclosure laws against Ku Klux Klan); NAACP v.
Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U.S. 449, 465-66 (1958) (distinguishing Bryant on
its facts). See generally Comment, The Constitutional Right to Anonymity: Free
Speech, Disclosure and the Devil, 70 YALE L.J. 1084, 1088 (1961) (discussing
Zimmerman and other early Supreme Court cases bearing upon a constitutional
right to anonymity).




n342  Talley, 362 U.S. at 65.




n343  Bates v. City of Little Rock, 361 U.S. 516, 517 (1960); NAACP, 357 U.S. at
451. The claims were brought under the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process
Clause, which makes the First Amendment applicable to the states. See id.




n344  357 U.S. 449 (1958).




n345  Id. at 452-54.




n346  Id. at 462, 466. The NAACP Court took pains to note that the group had
made "an uncontroverted showing that on past occasions revelation of the
identity of its rank-and-file members has exposed these members to economic
reprisal, loss of employment, threat of physical coercion, and other
manifestations of public hostility," but the Court found no compelling state
interest in obtaining the lists. Id. at 462, 464.




n347  Id. at 460. In Griswold, Justice Douglas construed associational freedom
as falling within the First Amendment's "penumbra where privacy is protected
from governmental intrusion" and otherwise "necessary in making the express
guarantees fully meaningful." Griswold v. Connecticut, 381 U.S. 479, 483 (1965);
see also Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 599 n.25 (1977) (quoting Griswold); Cal.
Bankers Assn. v. Shultz, 416 U.S. 21, 78-79 (1974) (Powell, J., concurring)
("Financial transactions can reveal much about a person's activities,
associations, and beliefs. At some point, governmental intrusion upon these
areas would implicate legitimate expectations of privacy.").




n348  361 U.S. 516 (1960).




n349  Id. at 518.




n350  Id. at 520-21.




n351  Id. at 523.




n352  514 U.S. 334, 342, 347 (1995).




n353  Id. at 337 (internal quotation marks omitted).




n354  Id. at 338.




n355  Id. at 341-42.




n356  Id.




n357  Id. at 347.




n358  McIntyre, 514 U.S. at 357.




n359  Id. (citing J. S. MILL, ON LIBERTY AND CONSIDERATIONS ON REPRESENTATIVE
GOVERNMENT 1, 3-4 (R. B. McCallum ed., 1948)).




n360  Id. at 360, 364 (Thomas, J., concurring in the judgment).




n361  Id. at 364.




n362  Id. at 385 (Scalia, J., dissenting). Justice Scalia flatly rejected the
notion that "a 'right to anonymity' is such a prominent value in our
constitutional system that even protection of the electoral process cannot be
purchased at its expense." Id. at 379. In his view, "anonymity can still be
enjoyed by those who require it, without utterly destroying useful disclosure
laws." Id. at 380. Justice Scalia's answer is to require a showing of a
"'reasonable probability' that the compelled disclosure would result in
'threats, harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or private
parties,'" consistent with the disclosure requirements of the Federal Election
Campaign Act. Id. at 379 (quoting Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U.S. 1, 74 (1976) (per
curiam)).




n363  Id. at 379.




n364  536 U.S. 150 (2002).




n365  See Berger v. City of Seattle, 569 F.3d 1029, 1037-38 (9th Cir. 2009)
(discussing Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y).




n366  Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y, 536 U.S. at 166-67.




n367  130 S. Ct. 2811 (2010).




n368  Id. at 2815. Chief Justice Roberts wrote the majority opinion. Justices
Breyer, Alito, and Sotomayor each wrote separately, while Justices Stevens and
Scalia wrote opinions concurring in the judgment. Justice Thomas dissented.




n369  Id. at 2817.




n370  Id. at 2819.




n371  Id. at 2820.




n372  Id. at 2821.




n373  Doe, 130 S. Ct. at 2824 (Alito, J., concurring).




n374  Id.




n375  Id. at 2825. Justice Sotomayor wrote a concurring opinion in which
Justices Stevens and Ginsburg joined. She suggested "the State's decision to
make accessible what citizens voluntarily place in the public sphere should not
deter them from engaging in the expressive act of petition signing," and she
distinguished NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson on the grounds that
case-specific relief is appropriate if there is a reasonable probability of
harassment. See id. at 2828-29 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (citing NAACP v.
Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U.S. 449 (1958)). In a separate concurrence in
which Justice Breyer joined, Justice Stevens emphasized that, unlike in
McIntyre, the law "does not . . . require that any person signing a petition
disclose or say anything at all." Id. at 2829 (Stevens, J., concurring) (citing
McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U.S. 334, 345 (1995)). Justice
Sotomayor's suggestion that First Amendment protections for privacy of belief or
associations are waived upon public disclosure of one's identity seems at odds
with her critique of the Fourth Amendment's third party doctrine. See supra
notes 301-308 and accompanying text (discussing Justice Sotomayor's concurrence
in United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945 (2012)).




n376  Doe, 130 S. Ct. at 2845 (Thomas, J., dissenting) (quoting Citizens United
v. Fed. Election Comm'n, 130 S. Ct. 876, 982 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in
part and dissenting in part)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n377  Justice Scalia equated the signing of a referendum with acting as a
legislator--not a voter; "when the people exercised legislative power directly,
they did so not anonymously, but openly in town hall meetings." Id. at 2834
(Scalia, J., concurring in the judgment). He also characterized the case as
claiming that public disclosure of signatories' identifying information
"violates their First Amendment right to anonymity," and suggested that "today's
opinion acknowledges such a right." Id. at 2832. Justice Stevens disagreed,
stating that "the right . . . is the right to speak, not the right . . . to
speak anonymously." Id. at 2831 n.4 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and
concurring in the judgment).




n378  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 956 (2012) (Sotomayor, J.,
concurring).




n379  See id.




n380  Note that there would likely be a formidable Article III justiciability
problem to a First Amendment challenge to the government's use of third party
information and technology for its own surveillance. In California Bankers, the
Court found unripe the American Civil Liberties Union's claim that the banks'
record keeping requirements violated the First Amendment as they "could possibly
be used to obtain the identities of its members and contributors through the
examination of the organization's bank records." Cal. Bankers Assn. v. Shultz,
416 U.S. 21, 55-56 (1974) (emphasis added). In Laird v. Tatum, the Court
similarly found no standing to challenge the Army's practice of collecting and
storing "information about public activities that were thought to have at least
some potential for civil disorder." 408 U.S. 1, 6 (1972). The Court found that
the plaintiff lacked standing to press a claim that "the exercise of his First
Amendment rights is being chilled by the mere existence, without more, of a
governmental investigative and data-gathering activity that is alleged to be
broader in scope than is reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of a valid
governmental purpose." Id. at 10. In dissent, Justice Douglas argued that "there
is . . . no law authorizing surveillance over civilians, which in this case the
Pentagon concededly had undertaken," yet "one can search the Constitution in
vain for any such authority." Id. at 16 (Douglas, J., dissenting).




n381  Slobogin, supra note 23, at 217 (observing that "we all possess a 'right
to anonymity,' even when in public," under the Fourth Amendment); Katherine J.
Strandburg, Freedom of Association in a Networked World: First Amendment
Regulation of Relational Surveillance, 49 B.C. L. REV. 741, 749 (2008) (arguing
that "the First Amendment right to freedom of association provides the strongest
basis for regulating relational surveillance" and identifying "suggestive
principles from Fourth Amendment doctrine about how surveillance regulation must
respond to technological change"); Timothy Zick, Clouds, Cameras, and Computers:
The First Amendment and Networked Public Places, 59 FLA. L. REV. 1, 3-4 (2007)
(providing "a comprehensive assessment of the First Amendment issues related to
the networking of public places" and categorizing the speech issues into six
basic clusters); see Lynch, supra note 205, at 235 (arguing that free speech
under the First Amendment should be expanded "to encompass a speaker's right to
choose a private audience").




n382  Compare Henderson, supra note 140, at 45, with Kerr, supra note 274, at
566 (taking different approaches to the third party doctrine).




n383  See, e.g., Slobogin, supra note 23, at 312-13 ("Whether framed in the
Court's language--in terms of expectations of privacy society is prepared to
recognize as reasonable--or in mine--in terms of a right to anonymity that
protects against unnecessary government scrutiny--that threshold is crossed when
government trains cameras on its citizens, because of the panoptic atmosphere
such surveillance creates . . . ."); id. at 270-71 & n.255 (citing scholarship
"to show that the Court's public exposure/assumption of risk approach to the
Fourth Amendment is misguided").




n384  See, e.g., Citron & Gray, supra note 185, at 270 (arguing that "continuous
and indiscriminate surveillance . . . is damaging because it violates reasonable
expectations of quantitative privacy, by which we mean privacy interests in
large aggregations of information that are independent from particular interests
in constituent parts of that whole"); Kerr, supra note 125, at 313 (discussing
"mosaic" theory of Fourth Amendment); Slobogin, supra note 23, at 258-67
(arguing that a right to anonymity additionally derives from a right to travel
under the Due Process Clause and from a general right to privacy in the
penumbras of the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth and Fourteenth Amendments).




n385  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 52-53.




n386  Id. at 11.




n387  Id. at 12.




n388  NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U.S. 449, 466 (1958); see also
Boyd v. United States, 116 U.S. 616, 630 (1886) (framing the Fourth Amendment
question as implicating the "indefeasible right of personal security, personal
liberty and private property").




n389  Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y of N.Y., Inc. v. Vill. of Stratton, 536
U.S. 150, 166-67 (2002).




n390  Id. at 166.




n391  Doe v. Reed, 130 S. Ct. 2811, 2820 (2010); see also Buckley v. Am.
Constitutional Law Found., Inc., 525 U.S. 182, 198-200 (1999) (invaliding
Colorado law requiring identification badges when soliciting signatures for
ballot initiatives as it "forces circulators to reveal their identities at the
same time they deliver their political message," thus exposing them to "'heat of
the moment' harassment"--"at the precise moment when the circulator's interest
in anonymity is greatest" (quoting Am. Constitutional Law Found., Inc. v. Meyer,
120 F.3d 1092, 1102 (10th Cir. 1997), aff'd sub nom. Buckley v. Am.
Constitutional Law Found., Inc., 525 U.S. 182) (internal quotation marks
omitted)).




n392  Doe, 130 S. Ct. at 2824 (Alito, J., concurring).




n393  Id. at 2845 (Thomas, J., dissenting) (quoting Citizens United v. Fed.
Election Comm'n, 130 S. Ct. 876, 982 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and
dissenting in part)) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n394  Id. at 2843.




n395  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 153.




n396  Blitz, supra note 148, at 1356.




n397  Id. at 1358.




n398  429 U.S. 589 (1977).




n399  Id. at 606-07 (Brennan, J., concurring).




n400  Id. at 607.




n401  Id.




n402  460 U.S. 276, 283-85 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted) (holding
that beeper signals did not invade reasonable expectations of privacy).




n403  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 52.




n404  Id. at 53.




n405  Id.




n406  Id.




n407  Id. at 57-58 (internal quotation marks omitted).




n408  Id. at 152.




n409  SOLOVE, supra note 14, at 23 (discussing theorists); see also Gutterman,
supra note 103, at 665-66 (critiquing the Katz formulation as "too dependent
upon a finding of objective measures used to protect privacy" and "thereby a
risk-assumption theory" of the Fourth Amendment).




n410  If an individual controls the database used for matching--such as a
Facebook account--there may be an argument that the government's probing of such
data constitutes an unreasonable search of that person's "effects" under the
Fourth Amendment. But see, e.g., United States v. Gabel, No. 10-60168, 2010 WL
3927697, at *6-7 (S.D. Fla. Sept. 16, 2010) (rejecting argument that subject had
a reasonable expectation that only users logging onto a network in a usual
manner would see his information, and that law enforcement's use of enhanced
technologies for searching violated the Fourth Amendment), aff'd, 470 F. App'x
853 (11th Cir. 2012).




n411  See PRISCILLA M. REGAN, LEGISLATING PRIVACY: TECHNOLOGY, SOCIAL VALUES,
AND PUBLIC POLICY 89-90 (1995).




n412  See supra notes 287-289 and accompanying text.




n413  See Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S. 27, 33, 40 (2001).




n414  United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 956 (2012) (Sotomayor, J.,
concurring).




n415  Id. at 955.




n416  Id. at 964 (Alito, J., concurring in the judgment).




n417  Doe v. Reed, 130 S. Ct. 2811, 2826 (2010) (Alito, J., concurring)
(observing that the state laws suggest that signatory information should be
confidential except for verification); id. at 2847 (Thomas, J., dissenting)
(observing that the rules allowing for review of the secretary of state's
verification decisions were not in question).




n418  133 S. Ct. 1958, 1980 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting).




n419  Id. at 1989.




n420  133 S. Ct. 1409, 1416 (2013).




n421  Id.




n422  Id. at 1417.




n423  514 U.S. 334, 347, 349 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted).




n424  Id. at 348-49.




n425  Spencer, supra note 157 (quoting Gregory Nojeim, senior counsel at the
Center for Democracy and Technology).




n426  This factor, of course, raises its own host of issues--such as what
anonymity means for purposes of evaluating levels of Fourth Amendment scrutiny
and protection--which is beyond the scope of this paper.




n427  See Hayes v. Florida, 470 U.S. 811, 813-18 (1985) ("There is . . . support
in our cases for the view that the Fourth Amendment would permit seizures for
the purpose of fingerprinting, if there is reasonable suspicion that the suspect
has committed a criminal act, if there is a reasonable basis for believing that
fingerprinting will establish or negate the suspect's connection with that
crime, and if the procedure is carried out with dispatch. Of course, neither
reasonable suspicion nor probable cause would suffice to permit the officers to
make a warrantless entry into a person's house for the purpose of obtaining
fingerprint identification." (citation omitted)); cf. Maryland v. King, 133 S.
Ct. 1958, 1987 (2013) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (observing that "our cases
provide no ready answer to the question" of whether taking a person's
fingerprints amounts to a Fourth Amendment search); Davis v. Mississippi, 394
U.S. 721, 728 (1969) ("We have no occasion in this case . . . to determine
whether the requirements of the Fourth Amendment could be met by narrowly
circumscribed procedures for obtaining, during the course of a criminal
investigation, the fingerprints of individuals for whom there is no probable
cause to arrest."). By contrast, courts have found that routine "booking"
procedures may require fingerprint identification, regardless of whether
investigation of the crime involves fingerprint evidence. See, e.g., Napolitano
v. United States, 340 F.2d 313, 314 (1st Cir. 1965) ("Taking of fingerprints
[prior to bail] is universally standard procedure, and no violation of
constitutional rights."); Smith v. United States, 324 F.2d 879, 882 (D.C. Cir.
1963) ("It is elementary that a person in lawful custody may be required to
submit to . . . fingerprinting . . . as part of routine identification
processes.").




n428  See, e.g., Tattered Cover, Inc. v. City of Thornton, 44 P.3d 1044, 1057-59
(Colo. 2002) (en banc) (applying the Supreme Court's recognition of a First
Amendment interest in anonymity to a search warrant issued to a third party and
holding that a warrant to obtain information about an individual's purchases
from a bookseller could not be enforced without a heightened showing of the need
for customers' book purchase records). Other courts have held that the privacy
or anonymity interest of a party seeking to prevent a subpoena to a third party
weakens if the party made disclosures to that third party in exchange for a
service. E.g., Hause v. Commonwealth, 83 S.W.3d 1, 12 (Ky. Ct. App. 2001)
(upholding a warrant for subscriber records from an ISP because he had knowingly
revealed his identity to the ISP, whose employees had access to that
information).




n429  Cf. MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 176 (recommending
that governments be required (1) to disclose their data and algorithms to the
public, (2) to have algorithms certified by third parties prior to use in making
predictions, and (3) to specify concrete ways in which individuals can disprove
predictions made through big data correlations); Lee Tien, Privacy, Technology
and Data Mining, 30 OHIO N.U. L. REV. 389, 405 (2004) (arguing that the lack of
particularized suspicion to run a data search amounts to a violation of the
Fourth Amendment).




n430  See McIntyre v. Ohio Elections Comm'n, 514 U.S. 334 (1995).




n431  Blue, supra note 47.




n432  Ian Duncan, Senator Questions Facebook Exec About Facial-Recognition
Feature, L.A. TIMES (July 18, 2012),
http://articles.latimes.com/2012/jul/18/business/la-fi-senate-facebook-20120719.




n433  jhon jabir, How Facebook's Face Recognition Challenges Privacy,
SEETECHNO.COM (July 18, 2012),
http://seetechno.com/how-facebooks-face-recognition-challenges-privacy/.




n434  Blue, supra note 47.




n435  See generally Protection of Personal Data, EUR. COMM'N,
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/ (last visited Nov. 24, 2013).




n436  See Anita Ramasastry, Lost in Translation?: Data Mining, National Security
and the "Adverse Inference" Problem, 22 SANTA CLARA COMPUTER & HIGH TECH. L.J.
757, 758 (2006) ("Since September 11, 2001, the federal government has tried to
connect more 'dots' (data points) to prevent terrorism--by piecing together
pieces of information and data to uncover possible plots and patterns. As part
of this effort, the Executive Branch has introduced various proposals to 'mine'
private sector commercial databases and public records (as well as public
databases) for information on everything from consumer addresses to financial
and credit profiles. Such information, when fed into computers and analyzed, is
meant to help the U.S. government predict who might be involved in terrorist
activity.").




n437  Whalen v. Roe, 429 U.S. 589, 607 (1977) (Brennan, J. concurring).




n438  Id.; see also United States v. Jones, 132 S. Ct. 945, 964 (2012) (Alito,
J., concurring in the judgment) (citing Kerr, supra note 125, at 805-06). One
option is to have a comprehensive privacy law incorporating informed consent
requirements, like many European countries have, with a "privacy commissioner"
responsible for addressing technological developments in a regulatory
environment. Freishtat, supra note 160. This would allow for different responses
to different FRT applications, perhaps requiring social networks to be more
transparent and to enable users to easily switch data to competitors. James
Temple, Facial Recognition Software's Privacy Concerns, SFGate.com (June 20,
2012, 4:00 AM),
http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Facial-recognition-software-s-privacy-con
cerns-3645779.php.




n439  MAYER-SCH[#xD6]NBERGER & CUKIER, supra note 11, at 154-55. These authors
anticipate a shift in regulatory frameworks away from consent and toward
accountability for the uses of data. Id. at 173.




n440  Id. at 158-59. This would be problematic for numerous reasons, including
that culpability assumes that people have chosen a course of action and thus
should be made responsible for it. Id. at 163.




n441  Spencer, supra note 157 (quoting Professor Alessandro Acquisti).




n442  See Gutterman, supra note 103, at 681 (construing Katz as "adhering to the
basic determination that fourth amendment protections must respond to
technological developments").


                               17 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

U.S. police struggle to uncover threats on social media

LENGTH: 692  words


U.S. law enforcement agencies are a long way from being able to effectively
track threats of the kind a gunman posted on Instagram before his
execution-style murder of two New York City policemen last weekend.
Police need more data analytics and mining software to monitor social media
sites such as Facebook (FB.O) and Twitter (TWTR.N), as well as trained personnel
to make sense of what could be a deluge of data, say law enforcement officials
and security experts.


You can buy all the technology you want, but if you want to figure out clever
stuff, you better have smart people able to use it, said Christopher Ahlberg,
co-founder of Recorded Future Inc, which helps clients analyze social media
feeds. The company is partly backed by In-Q-Tel, a venture capital firm that
serves U.S. intelligence agencies.
According to the New York Police Department, Ismaaiyl Brinsley posted anti-cop
slurs on the Instagram photo-sharing site hours before walking up to two
officers in a parked squad car in Brooklyn and shooting them dead on Saturday.
Baltimore police said they discovered the Instagram posts after Brinsley shot
and wounded his girlfriend earlier that day. But the NYPD did not learn of the
posts - which included a photograph of a silver handgun and the message I'm
Putting Wings On Pigs Today. They Take 1 Of Ours...Let's Take 2 of Theirs -
until it was too late.
Monitoring social media for out-of-the-blue threats may be beyond the
capabilities of most police forces including even the New York Police
Department, which has a relatively extensive and aggressive intelligence
operation, experts say.
Analysts at the New York and Los Angeles police departments routinely crawl
through social media to keep tabs on individuals on their radar, such as gang
members, or to prepare for high-profile events. But in an era of shrinking or
stagnant budgets, buying high-end software and hiring trained data analysts can
be costly.
Many police departments utilize fairly rudimentary tools. The NYPD uses common
search engines, experts say. It is possible to program an algorithm to pick up
threatening messages, but the sheer volume of data and the potential number of
false positives would impede its effectiveness.
It is like trying to take a sip from a fire hydrant, the non-profit Police
Executive Research Forum said in a 2013 report.
TOO MUCH INFORMATION
In monitoring social media, most local police forces lag U.S. intelligence
agencies, which despite their vast surveillance networks still struggle to
prevent attacks such as the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.  The National Security
Agency had raw intercepts pointing to a person matching the 2009 underwear
bomber's description, but failed to stop him from boarding a plane.
The Department of Homeland Security monitors about 100 social media sites, but
there are restrictions that keep their agents from sharing all the information
that they collect directly with local law enforcement.
Social media monitoring by police tends to be reactive: analysts hit the
Internet when someone phones in a tip. Investigators use social networking sites
to identify victims, look for witnesses and perpetrators, generate leads or
search for evidence in the aftermath of a crime.
Most of the stuff, honestly, we get is when people send it to us, said Los
Angeles Police Department spokesman, Commander Andrew Smith.
That's not to say there have not been some successes. The LAPD, which employs
around 40 people to monitor social media manually, uses software from a startup
called PredPol Inc, which stands for predictive policing. The software analyzes
LAPD and other internal police databases to identify crime-ridden areas and
determine the best times to patrol.
PredPol marketing manager Benjamin Hoehn said crime dropped around 20 percent
within 10 months of deploying the system in Modesto, California, in January.
The LAPD is also exploring the use of Geofeedia Inc, which incorporates
user-location data as it crawls through sites from Twitter and Facebook to
Google Inc's (GOOGL.O) YouTube and Yahoo Inc's (YHOO.O) Flickr.
PRIVACY CONCERNS
Sophisticated services  2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday

Alhambra police chief says predictive policing has been successful

BYLINE: Zen Vuong

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


ALHAMBRA >> A year after the Police Department implemented predictive policing
software, car burglaries and vehicle thefts have decreased, Chief Mark Yokoyama
said.

In January 2013, Alhambra was the first law-enforcement agency in Southern
California to have citywide implementation of PredPol, a cloud-based software
that forecasts areas where crimes are likely to be committed.

Nine months ago , some residents expressed reservations about technology that
could target the homeless or minorities, but co-founder Jeffrey Brantingham, a
UCLA anthropology professor, said PredPol doesn t use personal information to
predict crime.

It doesn t include who the offenders are or what type of music they like or
anything like that,  he said.  It s focusing on where the crimes are happening.
The public calls the police and report crime. Police are using data they are
given. They re actually doing what the public wants. It s nothing like  Minority
Report   or criminal profiling.

PredPol uses five years  worth of law-breaking data to map a
500-by-500-square-foot area where crime will likely happen.

The technology essentially places officers at the right place and time to
prevent lawbreaking.

The Alhambra Police Department focused on the two most common crimes in
Alhambra, Yokoyama said. By year s end, when compared to 2012 numbers, car
burglaries decreased by 21 percent, and auto theft declined by 8 percent, a
statistics report showed.

Yokoyama said the system works. He recalled a time when police officers were
patrolling Valley Boulevard at PredPol s direction and noticed a suspicious
vehicle. They found ski masks inside the vehicles and arrested the individuals
on suspicion of robbery, he said.

The act of robbery, burglary, et cetera does not have to be committed for a
crime to occur,  Yokoyama said.  The planning and actions toward committing the
crime is a crime in and of itself. In fact, it would always be our preference to
stop a crime at this stage than for an act to occur.

Yokoyama added that giving officers direct, clear missions to patrol particular
areas has had a positive effect that residents and business owners have noticed.

It s actually increased our communication and visibility to the community
because (police officers are) spending more time in the residential area, as an
example,  Yokoyama said.  I get (positive) calls all the time about why the
police are in their neighborhood more.

Residents such as William Rising, however, said he hasn t noticed more officers
on the streets. But he said response time to emergency calls has improved.

Just a more visible police presence can avert many potential criminal
activities, such as car theft, break-ins and drug dealing,  he said in a
Facebook post.

In addition to printouts of potential crime areas, Yokoyama said every police
car is now equipped with in-car computers that receive refreshed information
every five minutes.

In general, he said, officers spend about 35 percent of their time doing random
patrols based on their knowledge of the city, and they spend 5 percent of their
time focused in the 500-by-500-square-foot areas to which PredPol directs them.

Yet the crime rate forcertain activities has increased . Residential burglaries
went up by 17 percent and robberies increased by 22 percent, a report found.

Although the numbers are up, based on PredPol predictions, we feel a number of
crimes were prevented and would have been higher if not for PredPol missions,
Yokoyama said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

Tech edge for forecasting offences

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 273 words


One of the most successful attempts at using massive crime data for predictive
policing has been developed by the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). A
separate wing in the LAPD uses cuttingedge data-driven analysis to direct their
patrol officers to likely future crime scenes. This may sound like a leaf out of
the famous Tom Cruise crime thriller `Minority Report', but the method has an
accuracy of more than 80%, especially in crime intensive zones of the city.

LAPD uses a special software called

PredPol developed by mathematician George Mohler and anthropologist Jeff
Brantingham, which calculates its forecasts based on times and locations of
previous crimes, combined with sociological information about criminal behaviour
and patterns.How PredPol works A series of data is collected, say over a decade
or 50 years, and recorded regularly and this is updated by police officials
across police stations immediately after any crime is reported.This data helps
the police identify the hot spots of the criminal activities happening in
particular areas. This also

provides details on areas in different cities which are at higher risk for
repeat offences.How analytics is used PredPol, based on its algorithm, generates
maps that display 500 x 500 square-feet hot spots where crimes are likely to
occur again. The algorithm uses criminal records, date and time of crime
occurrences, location and other attributes to predict the crime-prone zones. The
algorithm identifies the patterns of criminal activity based on past data; maps
are generated based on the shifts as the frequency and probability of a crime
occurring changes with time.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bratton Still Sees Challenges in a New York He Made Safer

BYLINE: By JOSEPH GOLDSTEIN and J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words


In his office on the 14th floor of Police Headquarters, William J. Bratton
displays copies of his memoir, ''Turnaround,'' his account of taming New York's
crime-filled streets and subways in the 1990s. On a mostly empty wall hangs a
framed Time magazine cover from 1996, declaring over a steely photo of Mr.
Bratton: ''Finally, We're Winning the War Against Crime. Here's Why.''

The main ''crises'' he describes now, six months into his second tour as New
York City police commissioner, are less likely to bring declarations of victory:
frayed relations in minority communities; a department facing increased
oversight; the ever-present threat of terrorism.

He is acutely aware of predictions that crime would rise in a
post-stop-and-frisk New York run by a liberal mayor, Bill de Blasio, and Mr.
Bratton accepts that, in many ways, his mandate is to bolster public confidence
that the city will remain safe.

''A lot of this,'' Mr. Bratton said, is about ''effectively trying to just calm
everybody down: 'Hey, it's going to be fine. The city is not going to fall
apart. The four horsemen of the apocalypse are not riding into town to rape and
plunder.' ''

For a quarter century, in police departments on both coasts, Mr. Bratton has
made a name for himself based largely on a ''broken windows'' theory of
policing, an aggressive approach to maintaining order by pursuing low-level
offenses like vandalism as a means of preventing serious crime.

But on his return to New York, he is searching for ways to apply that same
playbook, developed in the high-crime early 1990s, to a safer city filled with
New Yorkers who have never known it any other way.

He has looked for blight in Manhattan and found little to report. He has
marveled that grievances about noise are now a leading complaint from residents
in Washington Heights, an area he associates with the violent drug gangs of an
earlier time. ''Crime is not, interestingly enough, a big issue at this time in
the city,'' he said in a recent interview.

The city is a vastly different place than Mr. Bratton knew in the 1990s. In
1994, his first year as police commissioner, there were 17,422 robberies in
Manhattan alone and 1,561 homicides across the city. This year through Sunday,
there have been just over 7,000 robberies citywide and 123 killings.

But Mr. Bratton, 66, is not veering from his focus on low-level offenses. Rather
he is doubling down, although for different reasons.

If two decades ago Mr. Bratton championed the zealous pursuit of subway fare
beaters, he did so partly because it led to the arrest of more serious
criminals: In those crime-plagued years, one in 21 turnstile jumpers was found
to have a weapon. Now his attention to minor offenses is more about banishing
the specter of disorder.

Crime endures in the city, but it often differs from what he faced last time
around. Heroin is resurgent, but users are now more frequently found in Staten
Island houses than derelict shooting galleries. Youth gangs rarely battle over
drug turf, but engage in ''violence for violence sake,'' Mr. Bratton has said
with a kind of disgusted wonder.

While homicides are down, shootings are up 11 percent so far this year to 456,
an increase that has been seized upon by his critics, and those of the mayor.

But in the interview, Mr. Bratton spoke with evident frustration at how each
uptick in violence has been treated as evidence that public safety was slipping.
''That's something that we had to address and the mayor has to continually keep
addressing because everybody is still waiting and watching,'' he said.

''God forbid we had 30 more shootings than we had last year,'' he added.
''People tend to forget what this place looked like in the 1990s.''

For Mr. Bratton the present reality is best tackled with what he sees as a
time-tested approach, signaling for officers to go after highly visible
conditions such as subway begging and graffiti. And he is resisting an effort by
the Brooklyn district attorney to be more lenient with low-level marijuana
offenders.

He has even sought to brand the ''showtime'' performers who dance in train cars
-- or as Mr. Bratton often calls them, the subway ''acrobats'' -- as resonant
symbols of disorder, much as he once did with the squeegee men of a generation
ago. ''You're seeing activity directed against the acrobats, against the
aggressive beggars, soaring,'' he said.

He announced with satisfaction the arrest last week of a Long Island man accused
of routinely spray painting on highway overpasses and walls in Queens. (Graffiti
along the Long Island Expressway has come under particular scrutiny from Mr.
Bratton, who gets a close view of the vandalism as he returns from his weekend
home in the Hamptons.)

''I get criticized about: 'What are you going after graffiti for? We've got kids
killing each other.' '' Mr. Bratton said. ''It's just this sense of, in public
spaces, who's in control?''

When he reflects on his policing career, Mr. Bratton speaks in terms of big
challenges he has overcome -- helping to turn the tide against crime in New York
in the early 1990s, and a decade later to remake a Los Angeles Police
Department, which had come to be defined by brutality and racism.

He can seem at times cramped by the challenges enumerated for him by Mr. de
Blasio, who campaigned on reducing and reforming the stop-and-frisk tactic, the
aggressive use of which led to new court oversight and the City Council to
create an inspector general for the department. While the mayor hailed Mr.
Bratton as the right leader to carry out changes to the stop-and-frisk policy,
Mr. Bratton soon began describing the issue as moot, pointing out that by the
end of the Bloomberg administration, officers had abandoned it as a tactic.

Mr. Bratton has also grown quieter about Mr. de Blasio's signature public safety
initiative -- reducing traffic deaths.

With less fanfare, Mr. Bratton has embarked on several new initiatives,
including detectives focused on cellphone theft and cybercrime and a push aimed
at those who disable MetroCard machines and sell swipes to desperate
straphangers.

He said he wants the department to embrace so-called predictive policing, which
uses data streams to anticipate crime patterns or allocate police resources.
Already, the department is looking back at the hours before every shooting to
see which 311 complaints and 911 calls for minor events -- loud music playing,
crowds gathering -- preceded the violence and, if addressed in the future, could
help head it off.

Mr. Bratton has brought in familiar non-officers from his past postings: John
Linder, who is working on the ''re-engineering'' of the department, as he did in
1994; John Miller, a former reporter, to head the department's intelligence and
counterterrorism efforts; and Zachary Tumin, the co-author of Mr. Bratton's book
on leadership, to direct efforts on data-driven policing and social media.

But one of his most urgent priorities in the wake of the political and legal
fight over stopping and frisking has been improving morale in what he describes
as an ''unhappy organization.''

To that end, he has traveled the city, shaking hands with patrol officers,
adding his signature to their memo books. Last month during a late-night tour of
the 47th Precinct in the Bronx, he stopped by the station house in the
neighboring 49th Precinct at 1 a.m. on a whim. ''A lot of my role at this
juncture in this department is personal touching of the cops and the public,''
he said.

Indeed, Mr. Bratton is trying to find new ways to improve the public's
confidence in the Police Department. Soon, he said, the department will
regularly conduct a 10-question survey with 200 residents in each precinct to
''ask the old Ed Koch thing, 'How am I doing?' ''

At his direction, precinct commanders have taken to Twitter. It is part public
relations and part responding to citizens' everyday complaints to build a better
relationship with the public.

But Mr. Bratton has also encouraged his precinct commanders to make more
decisions on their own, potentially leading to conflicts if, say, the dictates
of a computer algorithm do not align with the approach taken by a local
commander.

A situation like that presented itself in the 47th Precinct during Mr. Bratton's
visit last month, when the area was leading the city in homicides.

By design, teams of young officers sent to handle crime spikes as part of the
decade-old Operation Impact are assigned to high-crime zones determined by
analytics at headquarters -- and can be moved only after a lengthy approval
process.

But the commander of the 47th Precinct, Ruel R. Stephenson, said the system
limited his ability to respond to pockets of crime as they cropped up around the
sprawling precinct.

After the precinct commander described the situation, Mr. Bratton instructed his
new chief of patrol, James O'Neill, to fix it.

He then set off for a midnight tour of the unfamiliar north Bronx terrain where
shootings have doubled this year. ''Very clean, orderly,'' he observed later.
''No vacant buildings.''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/17/nyregion/for-a-much-safer-new-york-bratton-red
efines-role.html

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William J. Bratton (A1)
''Crime is not, interestingly enough, a big issue at this time in the city,''
William J. Bratton, who is leading the New York Police Department for the second
time, said in a recent interview. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 As commissioner in 1994, Mr. Bratton, speaking above, found a city with high
crime rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DITH PRAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company


                               21 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                              June 3, 2014 Tuesday

A catalyst for big data innovations

BYLINE: By BRYAN MERICA, Contributing Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 614 words


A little-noticed measure on today's ballot could fundamentally transform the
role of government in the lives of everyday Californians and position the state
to be a leader of the Big Data movement.

On its face, Proposition 42 is a simple state constitutional amendment. The
measure clarifies that local governments must comply with California's open
records laws. Cities and counties will no longer be able to simply say they
cannot afford to answer citizens' requests for information.

The measure could also finally force local agencies to provide key sets of data
that have been unavailable and allow the state, for the first time, to direct
what kinds of data must be made available and help turn government into a
clearing house for vital sets of public information.

Having comprehensive, reliable public data will give developers and policymakers
alike the ability to create better solutions to help the public.

Prop. 42 could transform the role of the state from a simple deliverer of
services into a platform for data that will allow the private sector to provide
those services more efficiently. It could pave the way for the "Uberization" of
public services, creating new kinds of solutions that are enabled by government,
but driven by the market. It is a 21st century vision for what government can
and should become.

People use a lot of words to describe government, but efficient is rarely one of
them. But if it can be an agent for accurate and vital information, it will
allow both the private and public sector to recognize inefficiencies and gaps in
government services and come up with ways to fill those gaps.

It will also allow for the kind of government transparency needed to hold
elected officials accountable. If done properly, the measure can help us get a
better understanding of what our elected representatives are up to, and whether
promises that are so often attached to policy choices actually bare fruit. Did
that sales tax increase aimed at improving transportation infrastructure
actually help with the problem? Good, quality data can help us find that answer.

If Prop. 42 passes, it could unlock massive troves of data and allow the private
sector to set about addressing some of our most pressing issues in the state.
Already, for example, there is a movement afoot to address the current drought
by mining local water consumption data. Finding data that can help solve big
problems will become easier under Prop. 42.

The current state of public data in California is, quite frankly, embarrassing.
For example, we have no reliable statewide numbers for how many businesses are
opening and closing in California, or what kinds of businesses are setting up
shop or moving out of the state. Our current information is haphazard and
largely anecdotal, and laws are made based on hypotheses and incomplete
information.

Prop. 42 will allow state lawmakers to require local governments to track
specific types of information and make it available to the public. We are
already seeing the power of data and how reliable and current information can
lead to better delivery of services. In Los Angeles, for example, the LAPD
rolled out "predictive policing" technology that analyzes historic crime data to
forecast where police resources are likely to be needed in the future.

Government can improve the lives of Californians, but it may not in the way the
state has intervened in the lives of citizens throughout the 20th century.

With the passage of Prop. 42, government can evolve into a platform to enable
innovative ways to better serve the people of California.

Bryan Merica is a founding partner of IDMLO.CO, a digital public-affairs firm
based in Sacramento.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 22 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Superstar Superintendant from Lewisham to take part in India policing programme

BYLINE: Carly Read

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words


Lewisham's borough commander will be taking part in a programme in India to help
train national police officers starting Tuesday.

The five-week schedule will see Chief Superintendant Russell Nyman passing his
29 years of experience onto police in Hydrabad, south India, with the help of
officers from Australia.

Chief Superintendent Nyman said: "This is an excellent opportunity for me to
promote the work of the Metropolitan Police Service to my international
colleagues and talk about how we police in London and in particular Lewisham.

We do have a large Asian community in Lewisham and in particular an Indian
population of approximately 2,000 people. I am looking forward to understanding
how they police in very challenging circumstances and most importantly to learn
and understand the Indian culture further."

During his extensive career, Chief Superintendant Nyman has been seconded to
other forces in England as well as other countries including Los Angeles Police
Department while working for Kent Police.

While in the USA he identified the use of predictive policing - using analytical
techniques to identify potential offenders based on algorithms - which has been
described as a revolutionary innovation of stopping crime before it starts by
the media.

As a result, this law enforcement technique was brought back to Kent where it
was introduced.

Having also policed in Cyprus, going to India will mean he has experienced
policing on three continents.

Superintendant Neil Evans will take up the role of borough commander in his
absence.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
